ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before we read the petitions from the Secretary of Parliament, I would like to make two announcements to this House. The Standing Committee on Social Affairs and the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs present their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Health: Clearance (a) of 13.4.2020 BC. "Measures to address the ongoing consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic and other emergency provisions" (A'84) and (b) of 1.5.2020 P.M.P. "Reader measures to address the ongoing consequences of the COVID -19 pandemic and the return to social and economic normality" (A '90) and other provisions. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: "Applications for the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food to upgrade and modernise the agricultural sector". I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we move to the topical and urgent questions scheduled for today, let me first announce to the House the topical and urgent question report on Monday 1 June 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 719-22-2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Charalambos (Charis) Mamoulakis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Aid for the absorption of the Public Gas Company (DEP) International by the Greek Hydrocarbon Management Company (EEA). 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 728/25-5-2020 by the Member of the Ilias of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Finance on the subject: ‘The change of criteria and an increase in the overall amount of the repayable advance to enterprises’. 3. The question by No 738/25-5-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr Leonidas Stoltides to the Minister of Finance, on 'Inadmissible and unjustly discreet wage treatment against employees of enterprises under Article 40 of Law 4440/16'. 4. The Question No 725/24-5-2020 by MP B2' West Athens Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Environmental destruction on the beach of Koukounaria by tourist business." B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Socrates Famelou on the subject: 'The government has agreed on a new NOME until the lignite plants are closed'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 729/25-5-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Decree industry'. 3. The question by No 726/24-5-2020 of the current question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arseni, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘Drugs burning plant in Volos, in breach of European directives’. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Submit to support measures for small and micro-enterprises that operate seasonally during the tourist season but whose SARs are not included in the affected'. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to the debate on the scheduled topical and urgent questions for today. I would like to inform you that in his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House of the following: ‘We shall now inform you of the topical and urgent questions, in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, that on Friday 29 May 2020 the topical and urgent debates to be discussed are as follows: The question under number 737/25-5-2020 by MP I Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Friend to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Personal data of pupils and teachers in the performance of distance learning and especially after the decision on live relay of courses", will be answered by the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Niki Kerameos. On the basis of Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure, the following questions will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs: The Question No 724/22-5-2020 by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament B3' of the South Athens Section of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafa to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: 'Deletion of redundancies from 1 June 2020'. The Question No 733/25-5-2020 by MP Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Repeal of reducing the national pension of members of the Greek minority of Albania and of relatives from the countries of the former Soviet Union'. The Question No 736/25-5-2020 by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: 'Reintegration of seasonal workers into tourism - food'. The question under number 5386/2-4-2020 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Direct support for the citizens who expect the extradition or the main pension and the long-term unemployed in the vicinity of the pension". The question asked by MP I'Thessaloniki by the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: 'Weakness of thirty thousand thirty-thirty-thirty-three workers in public employment programmes will receive the unemployment benefit and be subject to the measures to support the branches affected by the pandemic'. The following question will also be answered by the Minister for Immigration and Asylum, Mr Metarakis: The question by No. 743/25-2020 of the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kaminis to the Minister of Migration and Asylum, on the subject: "Reservation and opacity in the choices of the Governors of the Hostile Structures in mainland Greece" will be answered by the Minister of Migration and Asylum Mr.Mitarakis. Similarly, the following question will be answered by the Minister of Tourism: The Question No 734/25-5-2020 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "The suspension of school excursions in the interior and abroad without the provision for a refund of money, will be answered by the Minister of Tourism Mr. Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis. The following question will also be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou: The 740/25-2020 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Papastastasis, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Emergent need to find a definitive solution to the housing of the officials of the Santorini Airport, will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection Mr Eleftherios Economou. That's it. The following questions will be answered by the Secretary of State for Health Mr.Kis Kontozamani: The Question No 718/20-5-2020 by the Deputy of Corfu of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Biagis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: ‘Application for a Rehabilitation Unit of the General Hospital of Corfu’. The Question No 732/25-5-2020 by MP B1' North Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kleonas Gregoriadis to the Minister for Health, on the subject: "Discrimination in the supply of pharmaceutical material between uninsured and insured diabetics Type I." The question, under No 5507/6-4-2020, asked by MP A' Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'National Health System: Ensure the work of the four thousand OAS contractors in the hospitals of the U.S.', pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure, will be answered by the Secretary of State for Health Mr.K. Kontozamani.'. I would like to ask all my fellow Members, because there is legislative work, to be fairly precise in time. What do I mean? When our time is two minutes, not to exceed three minutes and when our time is three minutes, not to exceed four minutes. This also applies to the main ministers. I imagine Mr. Brutsis will have a lot of work to do and he has a lot of questions. The fourth question under number 743/25-2020 will be discussed in the Second Cycle of the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr.George Kamine to the Minister of Migration and Asylum, on the subject: "Recognition and opacity in the choices of host structures in mainland Greece". Mr. Kamine, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. For more details, I refer to yesterday's article 'Kathimerini', by Tanya Georgopoulos, in which there is a very strong criticism of the immigration policy of the Ministry of Immigration and which records the views of an international organisation in a confidential report by the government. Our issue today is the criteria and the procedure whereby thirty-two governors were selected in hospitality structures. After a fundamental investigation, we have seen that if there is one case, which officially disproves the government's announcements of values and government of excellence, unfortunately this is the case. As long as we see the names Mr Metatakis gave on 20 May. We will find that one third of the people appointed in hospitality structures, almost one third, are officials - I stress it, not even members, not even voters, but officials - of the New Democracy. We therefore call on him to respond to us today by what procedure they have chosen and on what criteria. Have they considered the relevance of their experience to the tasks they are required to carry out? Have they made a practical choice, as imposed by the Council of State in cases where we choose for posts? Were they ranking candidates? Did they? I want you to answer me, Mr. Metarakis. Did you do personal interviews and in what process? Among all these cases, there was a cryptologist, a writer, who has written a poem, a book completely against Islam - I will read after a quote - who was chosen to be commander of a hosting structure in the Tower, who at best cheated on you because he concealed a major element from his CV, which concerns the exercise of the duties he is required to perform. Finally, we want to hear what you intend to do here in order to reach the public, which the Prime Minister himself deceived in Samos, promising the islands that he would dismantle the islands and, secondly, you are deceiving, disguising everything around democracy and transparency. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Kamine. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, Mr Kamine, I would like to say that I have been expecting you to stand up for a more substantial opposition and not these cries of populism, which you have chosen in recent weeks to be the main component of your policy. You have personally managed immigration, you know the problems and difficulties they have and the choices we have to make. As to the post you mentioned, a denial has been issued a short time ago by the Ministry of Immigration. We are not aware of such a report. So is the International Organisation for Immigration and the UN High Commissioner for Ignorance. Of course, it is not strange that the Ministry and non-governmental organisations have a different view of how we should manage migration. For us priority is the reduction of flows and the reduction of the impact on local communities. You mentioned the issue of decongestion. You're hiding the evidence that you know you have, Mr. Kamin. Thirteen thousand people have left the islands since January 1st. So you're probably lying when you don't know that there's been a 15% decongestion since January 1st, despite the flows we had in the first two months. We shall now proceed to the substance of the matter. There are two issues that you are addressing today. The first is whether the Greek state should regain control of structures from NGOs and so far KINAL, in the way it has voted in a bill by the Ministry of Migration and Asylum, shows that you are rather in favour of NGOs and not in favour of the Greek state. We, as of 24 March, set up the legal entity thirty-two existing structures, with the aim of managing them. On SYRIZA, as I told you in the recent debate on the Ministry of Migration bill, 80% of the funds allocated by the European Union were allocated to international organisations and NGOs. The former Ministry of Migration Policy had only managed 1.9%. We have tabled an amendment to control the NGOs, which you rejected as a KINAL and you have not voted on. So I would like to ask you and answer your dentistry, whether you are in agreement with the fact that the Greek state is taking control of structures? Because that marks the selection of thirty two governors. We shall now proceed to the 30-two option procedure. We implemented the law of SYRIZA of 2016, which provided for a three-member committee, with a representative of the Greek Police and two representatives of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum. We received seven hundred fifty applications from an open platform. There has been a selection process by the committee and there is, of course, a practical one. Of course, there is a ranking of candidates and there has been an interview of the defaults in this ranking in order to confirm the suitability of the proposed ones. Of the thirty-two, the three are existing governors, who had already served on the former government in hosting structures on the islands and have asked - let's say it in introductory - 'transfer' to structures of mainland Greece. We have twenty-three people with postgraduate qualifications, some with multiple titles, three with PhDs, everyone is familiar with foreign languages and eight people with high experience in Security Body and Armed Forces. Our main criteria were two: firstly, the capacity of administration, because the administration of structures is something very difficult - I wish the governors a success in the difficult task they undertake - and secondly, the possibility of building bridges with local communities. You're referring to a book and shocking me, Mr. Kamin, because you've served as the Citizen's Counsel. If I reject an application because it had written a book by someone entitled "All refugees to take asylum" - which would obviously be illegal, because there is asylum legislation, and obviously is contrary to the existing legislation - he would have gone to the Citizens' Counselor. Would you, as Citizens' Counselor, think it was a political persecution? Are you in favour of political persecution? Are you in favour of certificates, social and political opinions from candidates? The author who wrote this book is an active military judge. He was a scholar of the University of Lucerne and studied the Swiss legislation on how he dealt with mosques and expressed his views on an issue that every citizen, within the limits of constitutional legitimacy, has the right to have an opinion. I respect everyone's views.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u6	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u7	I only close with one phrase, Mr President. In the same county, in Elias, there are two commanders. The second commander, former Mayor Nabil Morad, Syros who took Greek citizenship, had helped to create the former structure. I think that there are generally very good words about his contribution to dealing with immigration. I don't think Mr. Morant is a member of the New Democracy. I didn't look into it, but I think it isn't. For Mr. Morant, do you have anything to say? Or are you only disturbed by those who have right-wing viewpoints, and do you accept anyone else? Do you, in the end, discriminate policies, Mr Kamine, which are not in line with your role before as Citizens' Counsellor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Kamine, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, George Mulkiotis, presents the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have heard here that the state is being controlled by the NGOs. The state doesn't take it. The party gets it, Mr. Metarakis! That's the huge difference. I read, in order to know the pan-Hellenic: "Grevena: former candidate parliamentarian, Kavala: member of NOTE Kavala and close associate of the Minister of Defence, Veroia: Abrahamopoulos, member of ONNED and member of the Political Committee of New Democracy". There's more to it. I'm coming to this one. Nobody's talking about politics in general. But when you are called upon to appoint someone who will carry out duties, including the social inclusion of these asylum seekers, and you must at least exercise his duties without biasing objectivity and merit, you appoint someone who says: 'Islam is a threat to national and international security. As much as you're trying to integrate someone who's a Muslim, in my opinion, you're not gonna get anything. Even if some 'come' and live in western societies, their ultimate goal will be to overthrow these societies so that we also have an Islamic state there. We cannot appoint anyone in positions of responsibility when these fates of whom he will manage are regarded as enemies. This is all too obvious, and one does not need to know either Constitutional law or policy. Why did this gentleman hide the book? Because he knew very well what I'm saying right now, that normally just because he had written this book, he should have been rejected. Why didn't he include it, as Mr. Logotis informed us on a show at the "MEGA" in the detailed CV requested by the invitation of interest? Analytical CV! Bring us here the practical choice and get us the ranking of the candidates. Please explain why you have given a week, five working days, from 6 to 10 April for applicants to submit applications. Explain how seven hundred and fifty biographics made them clear within less than a month and even when Easter holidays were intervening. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Tell us how you did the oral interviews. Were all three members of the committee present at the interviews? Otherwise, it is not an interview when all three members are not present. If each of us "interviews" a candidate on their own, what about the result of this interview, which, of course, is not public? And because I've nursed as the Citizen's Counselor, we, when we hired staff, did public interviews. They were also present and watched. This is a personal interview. This gentleman, at best, cheated on you. This gentleman has unlawfully signed a declaration that what he has submitted as evidence is true. There's no real trick. There's one truth, that's a lie. This gentleman has lied, committed a criminal offence. You have a duty to withdraw his appointment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u10	Thank you. You can understand, of course, the difficult position in which I am in this case. I'm doing the trolleyman on a subject that I know, and sometimes I hear right things, but also inaccurate ones. I'm sorry to say this, but for most hospitality centers, she was held by the Armed Forces of the Ministry of Defence. There was a bill ready to pass - as they were right to - the Ministry of Immigration. So don't say it was in the NGOs. Apart from "Agia ELENNA" and one or two others, I don't remember...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u11	They didn't even apply the law of SYRIZA. Their law was implemented. We're being fooled by Mr. Meatakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u12	Let's not pull it. Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, because I like to agree to this House too, the Army has had the responsibility of structures. That's a reality. The administration of structures, however, did not have it. He either had it or the International Organisation for Migration or specific NGOs by region and I have met it, as I visit the structures. The whole speech by Mr Kamine was entitled 'I do not agree with the political views of what you have appointed and in my country to appoint only those who have the same political views as me'. That's what Mr. Kamines said. In a very strong way I told you that I disagree with the scientific view of a military judge on Islam. There have been too many books on this matter and they take on either side. I'm not saying I agree with this book. I haven't read it, and I don't even intend to read it. The CV we requested was specific and it was standard. We did not ask for social and political action. We didn't ask for papers. Perhaps we should have called for social and political actions and publications, but we did not ask for them. We followed a perfectly legitimate process. You've read some names, Mr. Kamine. I told you a certain name, which you ignored. You have ignored other people who have a party identity who have nothing to do with New Democracy. And I want to tell you one truth, Mr. Kamine. I don't care about party identities. I'm interested in people being able to put up a very difficult role. We are now starting to hire five hundred permanent employees to the Ministry. We are now starting to hire at least three people per structure with three years of contracts, which will be announced in June, so that each commander can now have a staff of civil servants who will assist in his work, because our main aim is to regain control of structures. It is very worrying that there are Members of the Greek Parliament who judge posts of governors with a procedure that is completely legal and lawful, that of SYRIZA. We have not come to overthrow all the legislation in a few days. We have therefore implemented legislation which has not been used before. They had not been appointed in the past, despite the fact that there has been legislation since 2016. But you still said nothing about NGO control. Are you, as a KINAL, in favour of NGOs? Do you think that NGOs should ultimately manage migration? Because when you were Mayor of Athens you signed memorandums of cooperation for about one million euros with four non-governmental organisations to do the work of migration in the municipality. You had hired a hundred and ninety posters as mayor to deal with immigration with people of your choice at the time. I don't judge you for that. But I am telling you, Mr Kamine - and I told Mr Vitsa before we started the debate - that in terms of immigration, unlike other sectors of the government, it is difficult to predict the next day. In insurance, Mr. Brutsis knows, about how many people are going to retire next year. The Ministry of Education knows how many first grades they need next year. In migration it is not always possible. That means that many times you have to make difficult and critical decisions. It is crucial to us, however, that we take the responsibilities of immigration as a country. And I expect articles from non-governmental organisations that disagree with this. I expect reports from non-governmental organisations, as the post yesterday, who want to build thousands of new posts throughout the continent. We do not want to build thousands of new posts throughout mainland Greece. We want, for example, the reception system to be exclusively for asylum seekers. That is why we have moved forward since Monday - something the previous government had done in 2019 - to exit the structures of those who have now received asylum and are no longer entitled to hospitality so that we can continue to dismantle the islands. I am also passing on to you, Mr Kamine, in your dentistry, despite your intense style, you have not responded to the information I gave you. Do you disagree that thirteen thousand people were moved from the islands? Do you disagree that the structures of the islands have been reduced by 15%? Do you disagree that decongestion is taking place? If you say it's not enough as a number, I'll take it. Let's talk about it. But you cannot speak with this extreme popular style that you have recently chosen and which hurts me, because I respected you as mayor and compatriot Chiot. To make a substantial criticism. But this excessive style of the last few weeks, I don't know if it's an anguish of the Change Party Movement about how you can stand as a party. But let us have a more substantial debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u14	Thank you both. We are going through questions concerning the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Brutsi. I repeat to Members that the two minutes can be made up to three minutes and three minutes can be made up to four minutes. This also applies to Members and to ministers. Please keep the time, because there are a lot of questions. Next, the first question will be discussed under number 733/25-5-2020 of the second Boeotian MP of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The abolition of a reduction in the national pension for members of the Greek minority of Albania and of the relatives from the countries of the former Soviet Union". Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are aware that with Law No4387/2016, Article 7(2) provides for the reduction of the national pension under the years of permanent residence in Greece. In other words, it is foreseen that full national pension will be granted if the pensioner is permanently and legally resident in Greece if the years between the 15th year of age and the time of retirement are in Greece and remain. Otherwise, the national pension shall be reduced by 1/40. This issue is a big one. We believe that one of the main objectives of the social state is efficiency, social equitable distribution of economic resources, solidarity, social cohesion, social justice in any case. You know, Minister, that our North Continental compatriots and Pontou came to Greece for some years which could not fulfil the conditions that the previous law, the 2016 Law, said. There's an injustice. There is one question that has unfortunately not happened to date. There have been promises, but they have remained in the papers. What we are asking for is for you to tell us whether this provision will eventually be abolished. How do you deal with the question of Greeks, our compatriots from the North continent and Pontus, who are in an unfavourable situation and are subject to a distinction against them, which is unacceptable? That is what we want you to answer our question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u16	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to turn to my colleague, Mr Mulkiotis, who has asked this question, on the basis of his reflections and questions. Mr Mulkiotis, I would like to tell you that the Government and the Ministry of Labour and I, as a responsible Minister for handling the social security portfolio, are honoured, honoured and supported by the people of the North continent, the relatives from the countries of the Soviet Union. This is a policy which we have also expressed in the run-up to the elections, and we also have a post-election policy. I shall therefore be very brief in my reply in the sense that the question you have raised, if you have heard promises, I answer that our commitments apply to the restoration of any inequality that has been formed among the particular population categories I mentioned before, which - and I repeat - we honour and respect. That's the truth, Mr. Mulkiotis. Unfortunately, there is one reality that you seem to be ignoring or within the framework of your question you have avoided quoting it. Our planned timetable for implementing our commitments cannot be fully implemented, in the sense that we have suddenly been found by a pandemic that has changed the course of all the issues that we had started, namely the issues that had to do with the government's announcements, which are in force - I repeat - as commitments, they are coming forward with issues which have to do with other priorities. The priority was to save human lives. The priority was to keep jobs alive, businesses, to give the workers 800 euros, to open up hotels now. So you understand - and I think I have your understanding - that at the moment, yes, we are, but the timetable of priorities is changing, in terms of its implementation within the meaning of the new data on the economy and society.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u18	Thank you. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, admittedly, I'd expect another answer. After all this time of constant promises to our fellow citizens, frankly, today I would expect to hear you say 'yes, we are starting' or that there is a committee that is studying this issue. Instead, I see there's nothing. Indeed, pandemic is a matter. But you will allow me to say that I consider the government's view that, because of the pandemic, you have not made progress and that you have changed your timetable. Of course, it has not been announced when your timetable will be implementing this promise to say that I know it and indeed I understand it. I think the expression you said 'Ignorant' was a mistaken expression. Minister, since May 2019, there has been a promise by the current Prime Minister as Chief of Police Representation: "We as soon as we arrive will change the law that exists, the Katrugalo Law, as far as these people are concerned." This was published in the press in a festive way. And it is not only that it had been published in the press - and I will be tabling the relevant documents in the Minutes - but there was the other one, which says that on 14 February 2020, when your own law was passed, there was a telephone contact between the Prime Minister and someone who belongs to the artistic world, Mr. Mastora, who says that after a call there was a commitment by the Prime Minister to the pensions of these people in the bill. Nothing happened. I, however, will also submit to the Minutes, Mr Minister, this promise, which cannot be disproved, because it is the New Democracy press release, which says: "The President of the New Democracy has pledged that the new law that the next New Democracy Government will bring in to replace the Katrugalo Law will correct the unjust conditions for our fellow citizens in Albania for the current legislation that creates a stumbling block on the basis of a full right to national pension". The Prime Minister assembles. And you say so. But the question is: Why do you not satisfy it? Why do you not implement this commitment, Minister? Why didn't you implement it when you brought your own law on the insurance system to Parliament? He remained a letter void and hollow promise. Does the Prime Minister adopt this perception that exists at the moment? Does he know her or doesn't he know her? Or do we deliberately let it go to the bells? Because - I repeat - I, too, regret what is happening. I think the Ministry is coming here to give answers honestly. I take that for granted. But we cannot pretext COVID -19 and that is why it has not been implemented. If you want us to accept this, say this today, so that these people know what your timetable was, Minister. Until when would they be implemented? In any case, is there a timeframe from now on? Is there any effective proposal or thought? Because there's no equivalence to these people like this. Our compatriots do not feel equal. They feel that they are wrong and that this injustice continues. I cannot interpret it any differently. I think you should, Minister, now say that. Be committed even now to somehow satisfying the feelings of these people. We are not speaking in opposition, but in order to give a message to these compatriots who - and I believe you - have been wronged. It must therefore be restored which injustice and immediately restored. There can be no more "training" for this request. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u20	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u21	Mr Mulkiotis, you have spent too much time analyzing something. I will repeat something that I said in my prototype. Our commitments apply. But how we will implement our timetable, let me tell you that it is the government's right. So you are keeping from your question that commitments apply within, I repeat, the harsh reality of a pandemic that hit the country and has properly changed that we had planned at the level of economy, work, support for society in a different way, priorities. Of course the commitments are valid, but the timetable for implementation, Mr Mulkiotis, will be implemented in times when we are going to choose, so that we can restore injustices, support social groups such as those concerned, in the way we think this must be done. And that's gonna be, you know, sure. I have nothing more to say. Our relative friends, our brothers and sisters in the Northcontinent and the Soviet Union's relatives must feel confident about this government. We are close to them, we support them, we respect them, and everything we have said is true. But things changed because of these facts. You insist that you ignore these and remain in a position that we have announced we will satisfy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Minister. I have an announcement to make to this House. The Ministers for Education and Religion, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Labour and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Migration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism and State Ministers, the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, as well as the Deputy Prime Minister and the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport have tabled a draft law on 29-5-2020: "Reinforcing the school and other provisions". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. As you can see, this is basically a bill from the Ministry of Education with too many interventions from the other ministries. Now we will discuss the second question with No 736/25-5-2020 on the second question by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Re-entry of seasonal workers in tourism'. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that the question before us before the New Republic's vote on insurance was the same question. Mr President, allow me, first of all, to denounce the Government and the Minister of Labour, Mr Brutsi, for the mandate he gave yesterday to the forces of repression to bring down chemical workers in the hotels and food businesses which were gathered by a decision of the Trade Union Foodstuffs of Attica and the majority of the operational associations and who were complaining about their life-threatening policy and condemning unemployment and the impoverishment of a large number of workers. I also denounce the Minister's refusal to meet with them with the rolls, as usual, tightly closed. Yesterday's mobilisation throughout Greece had as its main issue the situation created in tourism, the consequences for workers and the claim of a guarantee of income and survival measures. We have to say this from the outset that mobilisations are continuing on both 4 June and 10, making their demands known. One of the main demands is the reintegration of workers into tourism and food. There is a legislative framework, specific provisions, collective agreements and case-law that, if you wish, determines the reintegration of workers. There is Law No. 1346/83, No. 1545/85, No. 1836/89, which applies to employers and workers and the provisions of collective agreements and arbitration decisions in force, in conjunction with the above laws and which have been declared compulsory by ministerial decisions. Undertakings shall be obliged to re-entry the staff who worked during the previous tourist season no later than the end dates starting for certain areas on 15 May and defined by 10 June each year at the latest. The Government has announced that the prohibition on the operation of 12-month-old hotels on 1 June, of seasonal hotels on 15 June and of food business on 25 May is lifted. Your decision, after the above dates, makes the employment relationship of the seasonal workers in the above enterprises, who are obliged to re-enter if they are working. If they do not work or if they do not re-enter all staff, workers should be included in their contract suspension scheme in order to qualify for special purpose compensation and full cover of their insurance contributions. We ask, Minister, what measures will the government take to ensure that workers who will not be retire will be subject to the suspension of their contracts, receive compensation and cover the exceptional contributions? Does the government intend to oblige employers to complete the income of these workers so that they can meet their needs in view of the fact that they work every year from four to six months? What will the government do until 31 July for all workers in food and tourism, a date which will withdraw the measure of suspension of contracts? How will it ensure the unemployment benefit for seasonal workers after the end of the summer period and until the beginning of the next year without the restrictive conditions currently laid down? Fifty times have already been introduced for this year, for this period which is very critical, very difficult for the workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u24	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, thank you very much. Mr Katsotis, you must be very careful. At least when you talk to me, do not think that the false dilemmas you put and the virtual reality you quote will unnoticed pass unnoticed. The complaint you made in my face, I return it to your face. Yesterday there was no protest from the world of tourism and food. It was the party army of PAME and the KKE, which in an inviting and intense manner, with unacceptable behaviors were kicking and breaking the door of the Ministry of Labour. Unwittingly, there was a gathering of the party army of the Communist Party of Greece that did not express the world of tourism and foodism. He doesn't express himself! Yesterday it was not the world of tourism and foodism outside the Ministry of Labour. It was your party army, when there was a cabinet without having notified it. You know, Mr Katsotis, that we can well discuss, come to my office, but these are done on a date. And if we're gonna meet as parties, come the Communist Party, come. Yesterday, you personally headed. You were with this world and you were the one who gave and the directions, the attacks and the rest. Well, haven't you realised you've been through before? That this society sees you on television and realize that this is a structured process? I wouldn't make this report, Mr Katsotis, if you didn't challenge me. I wanted to get over it. But these behaviours are condemned in the consciousness of society, of workers and you do not gain the workers or the trade union movement with such behaviour. Secondly, I should like to say to you in two words: in the face of these exceptional and very difficult events, I am addressing the world of tourism, with regard to the laws that you have invoked for compulsory reintegration. I am addressing the people who are really struggling and I will tell you, as I will say in detail in my dentistry - and I would ask very much the fellow Members who are here watching the debate hear - what we are going to do with our legislative initiative that is being tabled today. I say in two words that no mandatory or non-compulsory re-entry in the area of seasonal tourism should be concerned. We'll cover them all. That is the answer I am currently giving to my prototype and I shall analyse in my dentext by what process we will cover all of this world and tourism and foodism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u26	Here, Mr Kattotis, you have the floor, although you have no direct responsibility. Let's just keep it from getting personal. You don't have a responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, Mr Brutsi has made it personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u28	Yeah, you don't have a responsibility. I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u29	I've been almost forty years a tourist worker. I was there and as a representative - to say so - of the party that we declared the support of these workers, but also as an employee in tourism for all these years. Because I know the matter very well and because I was there at the crime scene - I would tell you that I was not giving orders. There were forty-five unions across Greece that were moving yesterday. These are not a party army of the JRC. They're workers, maids, waiters, cooks, lagers. They are the ones who condemn them to hunger and impoverishment by the government in its policy. They are the ones who have not survived a single day from here and there to get borrowed. We must also be told by the Minister for Labour when he received unions! When did he accept them? And with the PAME then in Venizelos in Kallithea he sent them to the courts and now the case has been cleared! And now the doors of the Ministry of Labour are closed for the unions that are trying to demand and claim their demands, to say their positions. Of course! He prefers SETE, BSE, the traders! One of them is guided, these claims and demands are implemented here. With all the framework that the Ministry of Labour has in particular legislation - and the previous period that it was in the government, and now - there is no demand that it has not satisfied, as is the request from the hotel owners for the non-recruitment of workers this year - it is their request - which is now regulated by a regulation which has not been made public. Mrs Satinaki said yesterday to a delegation of workers that she would deal with the reintegration of those who have applied for. I ask you this: in Naxos, where are you, who has applied? Which employer, if you wish, does not blackmail workers from not going to their unions, as the law and the collective agreement says, that they can apply through their unions after they take them every year? Who will not today make use of the non-applicability of unions to say: 'We have no worker. Haven't they applied?’ So, will you cover up all those unsubsidized workers in the SDR last year? And you know very well that with the "ERGANI" system you can find out who they were working last year. So what are you gonna do? Will their contract be active this year? Will it be ensured that if they do not work, will they be suspended at least as laid down by the Act of Legislative Action, that is to say, the special purpose compensation, to cover their insurance? These workers on parole will ensure this year's unemployment fund for their winter? Look, Minister. If not everyone has an unemployment fund and the unemployment fund is suspended if they work, then there will be no protection for these workers. That is what we are calling for, namely an unemployment benefit for all workers, otherwise that is not guaranteed by the special purpose. We are talking about re-entry of all, special allowances up to what you say, that is to say at the end of September, but beyond that, all in the unemployment fund, without conditions and conditions, until they get to work in the next period. That is the only way to ensure that workers in tourism that last year's revenue from tourism was EUR 22 billion! They took it off! Without them there would be nothing! Carnivals are now hotels without hotel officials or food business without workers. They're crabs! So they made EUR 22 billion last year, these EUR 120 billion in recent years! Where'd that go? Exhausted? Where did they go? Didn't they go to the pockets in particular of these major business groups, which are today calling on you not to force them to function, who want not to function because they have, he says, operating costs?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Katsotis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u31	We therefore call on you here, with this question, to protect this right laid down by the laws and by the collective agreements and not to abolish them, because you will effectively abolish the collective agreement if you do not protect the workers and do not apply what we say, namely that they must be re-entered into all companies and if they do not work, that the suspension should apply to what this means to the protection of workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u32	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, the debate with Mr Katsotis always has an interest, because he always manages to do so in political controversy. So I heard Mr Katsotis once again referring to a specific issue, concerning which the government, with what I am going to read and I will announce in the House, has been over the problem and has embraced the whole world of tourism and foodism. On the contrary, Mr Katsotis tried to say that he has the privilege of sensitivity, which he does not have. You are not the privilege of sensitivity and kindness, nor are you, Mr Katsotis, and your party, the workers, because I have asked you many times to show me a country in the world that can apply or apply what you are doing and there is no one! If - the non-sexual - were to apply to the workers what you say, you would lead them to accumulation and impoverishment. Fortunately, therefore, the workers don't believe you and listen to you and turn your back on you. I shall therefore continue with the following: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall read to you some of the legislative framework that has been tabled by the government - because in the short term the government will present it as a whole - which will have certain features and will confirm the protection, care, interest, support for tourism workers and food. For hotel and tourist businesses, as well as for tourist bus companies, we are given special care. In particular, workers working seasonally in the transport, hotel operation and tourism sector in general during the 2019 tourist season have the right to re-entry for this year's tourist season in accordance with Article 8 of Law 1346/1983. In other circumstances, the contracts of these workers would have been activated as early as May 2020. That's a reality. Unfortunately, this did not happen because of the disorganization of the labour market brought about by the coronary in the Greek economy. In order to deal with this problem, but also to facilitate all seasonal operations, which are faced with new economic conditions, we are giving them the opportunity to place the above workers in suspension of their contract of employment from 1-6-2020 to 30-9-2020, if they are re-entered. These workers will be beneficiaries of a special purpose compensation of EUR 534 if their employment contract is suspended. At this point I must stress that the employer and employee insurance contributions, calculated on the amount of EUR 534, will be fully covered by the state. This is why employers and businesses are not allowed to reduce their staff. Any termination of a contract of employment will be void. The above companies will be able to withdraw the suspension of contracts of employment of part or all of their employees on suspension. Suspension of suspensions will be based on the fullness rate for hotel operators and the operational adequacy rate for the business’s tourist buses. For example, in a hotel with 20% completeness, the employer should withdraw one third of the workers' contracts, whose contracts are suspended. With the completion of 50%, the employer should withdraw two thirds of the contract of employment which has been suspended. With the completion of 80%, the employer is obliged to withdraw the suspension of all workers' contracts. Workers whose suspension of contracts of employment has been withdrawn will be able to enjoy the benefits of their integration into the 'Consensus' mechanism, the one we have today and within our legislation. With regard to seasonal workers who do not have the right to re-entry, and who receive the seasonal unemployment benefit from September 2019 to February 2020, we have also taken care of that. They will be entitled to a monthly exceptional allowance equal to the last unemployment allowance they receive and will take it for June, July and August. It is necessary that they remain registered in the OAD’s unemployment registers during the period from September 2019 to February 2020. At the same time, the State will strengthen seasonal enterprises in another way and will provide incentives for recruitment of workers: for June, July, August and September, it will cover the employers' contributions of all employed or employed parttime workers to these seasonal enterprises. These are workers who are not entitled to re-entry and who have received their regular seasonal unemployment allowance within the period from September 2019 to February 2020. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government has already tabled a very important amendment. As our society and economy enter a second phase, we come to cover a world that is really in anguish and uncertainty and we do so in practice showing and reflexing and sensitivity. We do it with what I announced just before and you'll see it in the bill. We hug and protect this whole world. The state comes and becomes a shield of them in practice, within the timetable I announced before, with specific policies and actions. No worker and those who must be re-employed and those who were not obliged to re-entry will remain unprotected by our Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much. We will continue with the first with number 5386/2-4-2020 question of the circle of petitions - questions by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "Direct support for the citizens who expect the extra or main pension to be issued, as well as for the long-term unemployed close to pension". Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor for two minutes, which will be three.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, unfortunately after the pain of abolishing from you and the majority of the thirteenth pension, after the fiasco of vouchers and of so-called teletraining, we are heading to the third part of Brutsi's trilogy: The chaos, the mountain of over three hundred and thousands of outstanding pensions. And you may call it "extension pensions", but there is no stand-by life, Mr. Brutsis. You promised in July 2019 that you would increase pensions. You're reducing them. After ten months, you say "the SYRIZA is cooking for this", while you, you have had the opportunity to change, to amend the law. I won't invoke SYRIZA's evidence. I will invoke data from the Parliament's Budget Office, which are really revealing what you delivered in 2014, what we delivered in July and what you did in these ten months, accumulating another eighty thousand outstanding pensions, gentlemen and subsidiary. After we have managed to cut down 70% of the gaps in chronic memorials, and after we took you out of the memorials of bankruptcy, in which you put the country, and left you a dowry of EUR 37 billion, you have, on the basis of everything, managed to reach three hundred fourteen. One hundred and seventy-two of the outstanding pensions, sixty thousand of the government's outstanding pensions, one hundred five thousand of the EBRD's pensions, forty-seven thousand of three hundred, sixty-three executives. Total: three hundred fourteen thousand seventy - two. You are violating the legislation that stipulates that at least you must give -50% is temporary pension. And you're not told by SYRIZA's MP, the GSEVE, a tertiary body. For over a year and a half merchants, professionals have submitted applications to receive a pension without applying for a temporary pension and do not have the option. So what? They don't have the wage - they left work - they don't have the pension - they expect it - they have no unemployment benefit. Have you considered it with the 32 billion 'Success story', Mr. Brutsi? And I hope that it is not this model of exploitation, the training bruise model, or the previous one, Mr Mitarakis, who was found in Malakasa and is reported by an international organisation for the way he absorbed the money. It's... it's... it's... it's... it's... It must be an example of the model of exploiting European resources. And the question - I will tell you in my second speech, because there are other matters and data to which you, as long as you are in the Minister of Labour's chair and are not 'Minister of Unemployment', are not 'Minister of Employment's' to give a solution - it is clear: will you reduce the number of outstanding pensions that have become mountain - three hundred fourteen thousand are - as Parliament's Budget Office says in the quarter's report, Mr Brutsis? That's the question, and it's not my question. It is a question of people who are currently watching us and waiting - they have paid for thirty and forty years of insurance contributions - to see how they will deal with their everyday lives, how they will put a dish of food in front of them, Mr Brutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much. You are extremely clear. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u37	I could only answer Mr Triantafylides, the SYRIZA MEP, with a word known: the hanged man's house is not talking about rope, Mr Triantafylides. What I will present to you now would normally have to be redundant, because it is a shameful thing that you have tabled just before about the insurance system in our country and about the people who are waiting for a pension. Ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat something for once: one of the basic diseases of our insurance system was the outstanding pensions. I never accused the Minister of 2012 of taking over the PASOK. I never came back. Nor did I blame SYRIZA for the hundreds of thousands of outstanding pensions that existed and had not been awarded. I did not do this for the simple reason: I knew, as Minister, that the problem of outstanding pensions is not solved by the human resources we have in e-ECA. It only solves with a computer system, with the digital jump of a new organisation, as we made it with the insurance reform 4670/2020 and goes that way. But what happened? Where was Brutsis being criticised as a Member for having this portfolio? First, in December 2014, I delivered to the government, on delivery, to Skourletis, the envelope with the digital pension "ATLAS" and the answer I received was that pensions should not come out of machinery, should come out of people. That was SYRIZA's answer. And flew in the basket, that's what SYRIZA flew in the basket, the opportunity of January 1, 2017, Greek workers, future pensioners, having a digital pension, tossed the reform. That was SYRIZA. And my second criticism was that Mrs Ahtsioglou was constantly coming out on the canals, cheating on the Greek people - and Mr Tsipras together - and saying that they solved the issue of late and every one of them had new outstanding pensions for which - unfortunately for the Greek Parliament and democracy - they did not answer questions. Mrs. Ahchioglu was never here, as I am doing today to answer. Never! Fifty-five Members of the New Democracy asked a question, ignored us, despised us, threw us the question in the basket, did not come here to answer. To the Members of the Change Movement itself, he did not answer the Members of the Change Movement, and I was forced, when we became a government, to challenge SYRIZA, to ask me what the outstanding pensions that New Democracy received as a government are. And you should be blushing because the answer came and the answers, ladies and gentlemen, you should know that they are not given by the ministers, because every minister can arbitrarily say a number of his head. The answers are given by the services. The answer, then, at the end of August 28, 2019, from the services is that SYRIZA delivered a million fifty-eight thousand seven hundred forty-eight outstandings, recalculations, widow’s pensions, main, subsidiary and one-off. And you have the nerve and you come here? For your bad luck, then, the Ministry of Labour yesterday reappeared "ELIO". Helios is a large section, one of the major reforms of my ministry in 2013-2014. The insurance system was mapped, we didn't know who's retired, which was full of virtual and illegal pensions, "male" pensions. You stopped it, you did not publish the "ELIO" and I issued fifteen issues, of which will now be presented to the Greek people every month, the mapped in absolute transparency in the country's insurance system, how many pensions come from which the following conclusions come to your questions. Conclusions, then, between July 2019 and March 2020 are the elements, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u38	Minister, keep someone for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u39	You've earned a hundred and fifty thousand twenty-one pensions this time. In the first quarter of 2019-SYRIZA period - fifty thousand ninety-five pensions were awarded, while in the first quarter and in the middle of 2020 we attributed fifty-eight thousand six hundred thirty-one, more than you. That's the bet, though? I want you to hear that, Mr President, I want you to end this. Our country must move forward. The question is, who's gonna make more? Oh, no. The question is whether we can make the digital leap. So I answer: We have set a timetable, Greece is moving forward, the digital leap is called “Digital Recipe” and it will be implemented at the end of June. It is already in pilot implementation, it will be 40% of the new primary pensions for farmers, fishermen and farmers, showing our respect for the primary sector and the most sensitive category, which is the cause of death pensions. These are 40 percent. From the day that this achievement is to be made in our country, from that day on, the measurement of outstanding pensions begins. That is why I would recommend that the SYRIZA colleague does not enter the fields he does not know and with which he and his party are also exposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u40	Here, Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor. In time we do not hold them in sight.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, because the hearing is public, I referred to the official figures not of SYRIZA, in the first quarter of the Parliament's Budget Office's report with the corresponding table. There, Minister, you have drawn up a drawing. Is it from the "Age Symbol" from the C.E.K., that they made you a nice drawing and you present it to us? Where are the official ones? The official figures are the particulars you say. So the lie has - you know - very close legs. From ifeimerida I will present in the minutes a specific communication of your own where you refer to the vagina of outstanding pensions. Before, however, I say anything else, you are proud of the dismissal of the five and a half thousand scientists who have worked through the OAED programmes, because while you are a Minister of Labour, in the eyes of these young scientists who have been selected on the basis of IASC criteria you are the Minister for Dismissals and Unemployment? By the way, today's publications say that you will fund businesses without a clause on employment. Is it possible for the Minister of Labour to see, to read an invitation to a development bank, where there is no obligation on undertakings that will receive State aid to maintain at least the jobs and to require the Minister of Labour at least the employment clause to keep the jobs they have? Look, when you go out and say about "ELIOS" and "ATLA" and others, people wait for their pension. Neither "HALI" wants "HALIO" nor morning TV broadcasts and all those Halima stories you tell him, referring to 2022, digital pension, i.e. air cut! Today he wants to live, today he wants his pension, and indeed, in times when we took you out of the memorials and gave you the specific conditions, so that you can be noisy today. Minister - and this is what I am closing down, we do not need to say more - by means of procedures - in the midst of a pandemic, you have even referred to the coronary. Here the outstanding pensions are increased from June 2019 to December 2019, 50 thousand have been made. Today there are eighty thousand additional outstanding pensions, Foscolos says in "NATIONOS", Georgakis says so in "NEA", which are printed in particular, they are also involved - you know - I believe my fellow journalists and not you, because you are lying systemically. Why are you lying? With procedures - express in the middle of a pandemic, you gave your own children the vouchers of scientists. Under procedures - expressing the Ministry's services at night evaluated the huge amount of educational material of the CEC with the well-known tragedy results. For the delay, however, from three days to three years in which pensions are awarded, it is the coronary, it is the SYRIZA, it is the digitality, it is the "ATLAS", it is Eski Sehir, it is all the others except Mr. Brutsi. Mr. Brutsi, you are on the way, at the end of the road, "you are farewell to Alexandria" as regards your ministerial duties. At least this world that watches us and waits for his pension to put a dish of food in front of him, who paid forty years of insurance contributions, don't mock him! Give him a convincing explanation of everything that's going on and don't refer to SYRIZA! SYRIZA was judged, assessed in July 2019. Now you and you said "we will reduce the outstanding" and add another ninety thousand over. You said "we will increase pensions" and the pensioner saw less than 70 and less 100 euros in his pocket in the last pension, and you refer him to him and say "do not worry, we will make it digital". Either digital or proportional, the reduction is called a reduction. The increase is called an increase. In fact, you also go around scripts to increase age limits, that is, it's not enough that the Greek pensioner has the coronary...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Triantafylides, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u43	I shall conclude, Mr President, thank you for your tolerance. It is not enough that he has the coronary and daily health pressure, it is not enough that he has problems with his unemployed children, it is not enough that he has all day-to-day issues, it also has you to mock him and mock him. You tell him one night I cleaned up the voucher story, but you'll wait four years to get your pension. That's the reality, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Triantafylides, thank you very much. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, you will allow me to begin with an introductory remark. Mr. Triantafylides, Member of the SYRIZA, came here and asked a specific question about the outstanding pensions. Welcome. The Government and I, personally, as Minister of Labour, are here, like all the government, Mrs Kerameos, before Mr Metarakis, this image that we did not see in SYRIZA, which shows that we respect the parliamentary procedure. But, for six whole minutes, Mr Triantafylides has not been mentioned in his question. He criticised the government, to me personally, the Ministry, in the policies of the government. In any case, I say that it must be a little more organised when a debate is taking place. It is the right of the Member to extend, but I shall reply directly to the honourable Member as he has addressed me. I repeat, Mr Triantafylides: 'On the place of the hanger, they do not speak of rope'. And this is addressed to SYRIZA. Mr Triantafylides' cries for me suggest something: They indicate the terror of SYRIZA when the digital pension is presented. The issue of digital pension is the leap, what society, the path of decades, expects. And I will repeat for once that the issue of digital pension “ATLAS” gave it to them in January 2015 and they threw it in the baskets. They didn't. They delivered, with evidence from the Ministry of Labour, the most official, employees signed it, a million and fifty-eight thousand, while SYRIZA, Mr. Tsipras, Mrs. Ahchioglou, went out to the channels and said there were no more late pensions to pay. This is why the work and the mockery of the Greek people and pensioners, of course, the world has appreciated you. I never said, "Why didn't they all go out together?" I said: 'Why don't you use what I gave you and why are you lying?' Now, Mr. Triantafylides, you are in the unpleasant position to apologize. So you are apologizing because you are not criticising what I presented to you just now. Just before what did I present, ladies and gentlemen? Yesterday we presented "HLIO", all 15 months since 1 January 2019, where SYRIZA had ceased to present, where is the mapping and absolute transparency of the insurance policy. Why did he do it? For his own reasons. I don't want to get into second thoughts. We made it. Every month, the Greek people will see the mapping of the insurance policy - we presented it all yesterday - and they will see the award of pensions, because on page 8, the pension fund is available. From the pension award chapter, Mrs Sakorafa, just before I presented with the official figures, the most detailed tool, the most reliable, called "ELIOS", which is mapped up to a cent of the insurance, that we handed over, gave a hundred and fifty thousand pensions in the last period since July. Mr. Triantafylides speaks of the pending. Of course they're accumulating. I proved to him that in the first quarter of 2019 pensions were less than in the first quarter of 2020. I invite you to return to the documents, you will see that, we have made more pensions. I repeat, this is not a question of competition if it is to be five hundred or a thousand more pensions, but it is about how to solve this issue forever. And since Mr Triantafyllidis is causing me, I am obliged to say again to Parliament something which I said as a Member, which was unfortunately revealed, Mr President, that SYRIZA was hiding pensions, was not registered. In December 2019 and January 2020, we discovered new bags without registration of the pension application, we found fourteen thousand there. It was those that I said in the election, as a Member of Parliament, that SYRIZA had altered the pension protocol and was unfortunately confirmed. SYRIZA stole fourteen thousand pensions and had not presented them in the protocol. For you, therefore, thankfully for the Greek people, unfortunately, you must apologise, when in June 2020 we presented the digital pension - which you could have done with what I gave you, the whole 'ATLAS' system, and you did not - and then you must apologize for the public apologies to the pensioners and the workers, who have been afflicted so long and - the worst - you've been mocking them and mocking them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u46	So we move on to the second question with number 5442/3-2020 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Third thousand thirty-three workers in public employment programmes can receive the unemployment benefit and be subject to the support measures of the branches affected by the pandemic." Mr. Giannoulis, you can speak out because of your problem. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Minister, for coming to answer the question. There is, of course, a political issue. I have listened to you in your first speech, in Mr Triantafylides' question, to perfectly describe that you have applied a protection shield - you are sensitive to all those who are affected by either the coronary pandemic or the nightmare of unemployment. You referred to "HLIO" by offering warmth and refreshment to the unemployed, who may be tested. I fear, however, that you will find yourself in a difficult situation if you go into the question - I do not know if there is such a sensitivity - because the state and the state, if anything else with the pandemic crisis, must not punish workers and citizens, not avenge workers and citizens. I have asked you a question for the beneficiaries of OAED Notice 8 of 2008, which concerns about thirty thousand families. Among them are four hundred eighty former workers in the region of Central Macedonia. All these people served public functions, what made us proud of the pandemic crisis, worked and demanded know-how, and now, strangely, not only are they out of every opportunity of the measures, but they are almost punished by an inconceivable exclusion. People, then, have been working since the announcement of 8 of 2018 - I say thirty-one thousand beneficiaries, thirty-one thousand families - cannot be subsidized - and this is one of the strange things - from the unemployment fund. Although they meet the standard conditions - if you pay attention to me, Minister - they cannot benefit from the unemployment fund. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] They cannot participate in the new programme, which you have announced for thirty-six thousand beneficiaries. You deprive them by name of the opportunity to seek a new job. You also do the same for other notices of 2017, 2018 and 2019. Nor is it even foreseen - and this is equally worrying and interesting - that they should be included in the EUR 800 special allowance, or that they should be paid and the unemployment benefit extended. In short, Mr Minister, it is thirty-one thousand workers, scientists, young people with know-how and experience. In fact, some of them have been engaged in structures of mutual solidarity and offering, in institutions for helpless elderly people, in disabled people and have acquired know-how and what are you doing? You exclude them from everything and say to them: 'All that remains is the Caesar of agony, unemployment and impoverishment.' [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want to ask you one last question, I've been over time. I would like to believe that it is not true, Minister, what I hear that, while these thirty and one thousand people and the eighty-eighths of the region are excluded, curiously how - unfortunately Mrs Kerameos left - with an amendment to the CSCE, with which you have put the ban on life for these people, you intend to exclude the beneficiaries who had served in institutions related to the Church. I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u48	Minister, here you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, thank you very much. Mr. Colleague, you're new to this House, but you're experienced in politics. You serve the commons, that's good. So I recommend to such questions that you be informed and studyed more. That is not offensive, because no one has the absolute knowledge, but at one time is exposed when he asks questions and does not come prepared to the House. And I explain, it is a rhetorical question to you: Mr Colleague, you are talking about the thirty-one thousand people working in society. Rhetorically, then, I ask: Do you know when social work began? The public works began for days, Giannis Vroutzis, Minister of Labour, in 2012-2014. Don't rush, I'll drive you somewhere else. How many years have it been since? Seven whole years. Do you remember ruling four and a half years? Remember. The rhetorical question: Four and a half years why have you not changed the legislative framework of our country's labour law to get them a socially beneficial unemployment benefit and come today and make you feel sensitive to this world? Because I didn't change anything. Existing legislation follows, the one I inherited from SYRIZA. You've been four and a half years government. Why don't you change the frame? Look, this is called political hypocrisy. The previous thirty - one thousand, the other thirty - one thousand who had entered the community program in 2017, did not have a soul? Why didn't they get an unemployment benefit? Or in 2016 why didn't they get an unemployment benefit? They didn't have a soul? So, two yards and two weights? This is called political hypocrisy and party exploitation of a world that is being watched right now and you are going to convince him that the irreversible government does not give them unemployment benefit when you had jurisdiction as a government to change the context and you have wronged the previous ones! So what do I understand? I understand that SYRIZA has done four times for thirty - one thousand, that is, a hundred and twenty thousand people who entered the public service and did not give them an unemployment benefit. That's what you're saying today. You have doubled a hundred and twenty thousand and you have not shown sensitivity to this world. That's my first answer. I'll actually come to my dentistry. Secondly, Mr Colleagues, you are now sincerely saying that I, as Minister, exclude thirty and one thousand here benefiting from the programme from being able to be in the programme again. That's what you asked me, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u50	And this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u51	Dominion of this. Well, are you saying so? Four gullibles you've done. Every time you didn't rule out the previous ones? So you're coming here and saying things impatiently? This is impatient! You did not ask the previous Minister of Labour and the previous Minister of Labour to tell you that the European Union is expressly and unequivocally forbidden to enter the programme of public benefits themselves, why are they benefiting and banned by a sword? Since 2013, ladies and gentlemen, when the programme has been launched for my time, every time this programme of mutual benefit has been completed, it is forbidden to enter the programme themselves, but they can enter the next time. Don't you know that? Are you coming here and complaining to the government about something you did four times? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have kept and will keep low tone because I respect the anxiety of every citizen who hopes that the government and the state will deal with him with justice and efficiency. What did you describe to me? One of you and one of me? Is that what you're telling me? I come to defend something that comes from the past and in a situation where the country was very different. Do not make me repeat that the pandemic crisis has changed the genetic material of our society. Do we live in another situation, and do you suffice to oppose the SYRIZA as to whether it has succeeded or has not been able to amend a legislative framework? If you are the sensitive and we are the analgesic, behold Rhodes, behold the fuck! Change it! And I apologise, if you like, for the previous government. Do you have the courage to change it? What's to change? Not to violate Community law. Don't punish them! Do not deprive them of the opportunity to participate in the new programme, not to prevent them from having an elementary grant, not to ban them, Minister, at least to take some money to enable them to survive. Does this impose on you the legislative framework you received from the previous government? No, Mr. Brutsi. The convenience with which you can say other public and other things to do is to do so when you adopt the relevant regulations. My colleague said to you - and you did not answer - that it is with the same logic that you have now advertised, that the protection of jobs is an absolute given red line, that you rushed to remove the lights from the entrepreneurs who are borrowed with a guarantee of 80% of the Greek state. However, I shall return to the question. You did not reply to me about the information, almost certain, that while all the information you described for the thirty - one thousand are not suitable for those who served in congregational institutions. I'd be happy to have a straight answer to this, not opposition to SYRIZA, but now you've been involved with your things, because a year you've been ruling, SYRIZA doesn't rule over a year. Of course, Minister, I am not going to repeat all these failures that are opaque, unsuccessful or unsuccessful to vouchers, for the amendment to release the redundancies which Parliament has shocked, and even to your fellow Members, that afternoon of the summer. I want to be specific because the words'sensitivity' and 'protection' really must be proved in our political practice. Do you intend to do something about these thirty-one thousand families? Do you have anything to suggest to them besides SYRIZA being bad about how he's going to go through this crisis he doesn't have a precedent? That's the question. And if you intend to do it, present it to the House. If not and their punishment continues, they should know exactly what's going on. And I'm sorry about the personal comment. I understand from your answers, Mr Brutsi, because in a triumphant - otherwise - for your party and the Prime Minister a poll presented at the MEGA, the only one who is in a very difficult position in public opinion is you and the labour sector, which, in the quality data and the question as to the performance of each sector, is just a last resort to acceptance, with a percentage of your policies exceeding 60%. That might say a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. I hear his colleague, SYRIZA, doing personal reports, and he also invokes polls that SYRIZA exorcises, does not recognize, says they are constructions of the channels. It's impressive! Do you realize that right now you've fallen into the trap to say that Mr. Tsipras is behind anyone? This poll showed that Mr. Tsipras is behind anyone! What do you have to say about that, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u56	Are they fakes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u57	It is the policy that Mr Tsipras expresses behind nothing! So be careful, then, when you talk about polls that you use at will and as you like. So I'm asking now, I'm actually in the middle of the placement...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u58	It distorts what I say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u59	Please. We're not talking about polling right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u60	No, it's the other thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u61	And I tell you, Minister, and you, Mr. Giannoulis. Everybody's behind anyone!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u62	Everybody, everybody. And Mr. Tsipras behind anyone is, since Mr. Tsipras called for polls.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u63	Everybody, anyway. I mean, not in public, when the other one says "no one", everyone's back. Keep it up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u64	I would therefore like to say to my colleague that I too want to keep low tones, but this is hypocrisy, Mr SYRIZA's colleague, because the legislative framework has been in your hands for four and a half years and you have not changed it. So I will repeat this: did you have a hundred and twenty thousand people who went through the public service? Four gullibles passed through your hands. Why didn't you take care to defend and protect this world? You didn't result from virginity. So you have been inclined here at a time in the country. You have done nothing about this world and at the same time I tell you that the European Union is expressly and unequivocally forbidden from reinvigorating the process. Didn't you know that for four and a half years? I have never, as a opposition MEP, asked such questions because I knew the regulatory framework and how things should go coordinately and legally in line with the European guidelines. I never accused SYRIZA of ever! - that it has not exploited the same thirty - one thousand socially beneficial jobs as an indication of the absence of sensitivity, because I knew that European rules are specific, that they are! It's forbidden for the benefit themselves to enter. Also, for the issue of your reference to work, there is a regulatory framework that regulates that many of them can get to the unemployment benefit, if they have certain conditions. I would therefore recommend, Mr President, that you come to a more study, with a greater reading of the texts and the questions you have brought to me, because today you have brought a question which, in its contents and on the matter, you have shown personal ignorance. You're merciless! You're here indiscreet! You have shown ignorance that the beneficiaries, firstly, cannot retreat. Secondly, those who have the prerequisites of the OAED can take it. And, thirdly, you have shown an extremely hypocritical attitude - a party and political stumbling - in the world that you have ignored for four and a half years a hundred thousand, you are ignoring that this programme works seven years with the same rules that we have changed and we will maintain the same rules, according to the European cheque, and you have come here today to make us the sensitive and the people who care about this world, while the previous ones you have neglected them. You do not gain the sympathy of the world, Mr. SYRIZA's colleague, and the polls prove it with mocking and mocking. People have understood you, they know who you are, they have tried you four and a half years, they have rejected you, and I do agree with the polls that get you back from anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u65	You're last.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u66	No, no, Mr. Comrade, time...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u67	All right, but, Mr President, I asked twice about the Church and the belly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u68	Look, after completing the question procedure, the Minister can also draw up a press release saying: "I crushed Mr. Giannoulis" and Mr. Giannoulis to make an equivalent.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u69	But obviously for the Church, that's why he didn't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u70	We continue with the fourth under No 724/22-5-2020 topical question by H' Vice-President of Parliament and MP B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Delimination of redundancies from June 1, 2020." Here, Mrs. Sacorafa, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, since you have also referred to me in reply to my colleague on pension performance, I am sure you understand the size of the state's obligation to make pensions quick for people who have had to go out of work and thus live out of the amount which they have been paying for so many years through their work to the state. Well, I will keep your promise of quick performance of all these pensions and, of course, it is true that through this process we can have as MPs here we will control you for that. I now move on to my question, Minister. In Circular 19221/379/19-5-2020 of the General Secretary of Labour, clarifications are given to the Joint Ministerial Decision 17788/346/8-5-2020. There it is stated that for fixedterm work workers the extension of the contract is two months, but the obligation to continue the contract of employment does not exist for the employer when, firstly, there is an objective impossibility of fulfilling it and I mean on the part of the employer and, secondly, if the contract was concluded to serve needs no longer in existence after the closure of the business. In both categories the deadline for extensions is set forty-five days from 13 March 2020, which is the same as 28 May 2020, Friday morning, that is today. Furthermore, for reopening undertakings making use of the measure of extending contracts, but also for those who have not made use of that measure, a time limit is set for prohibiting the termination of contracts of employment and for providing incentives for the continuation of contracts to 31 May 2020. Therefore, as of 1 June 2020, Minister, all redundancies are actually released. These decisions were taken before the announcement of the European Union's new Marshall Plan of 750 billion, and you say that Greece accounts for about 35 billion. If that is the case, Minister - and I conclude, Mr President - I ask you: Are workers not entitled to a share of this Community aid? And without mentioning the interpretation and analysis of our party, which are substantiatingly questioning the official announcements of the Prime Minister, considering what you are supporting as a government, I ask you: Do you intend to review your relevant decisions and draw up a plan for real support for workers in order to avoid the storm of redundancies and the huge increase in unemployment as from 1 June 2020, which will have tragic consequences for all of Greece in today's critical conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u72	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u73	I appeal to the kind and always well-meaning MEP, Mrs Sakorafa, and thank her for the question. We may have different approaches to issues, Mrs Sacorafa, but I accept your sensitivity to this particular question, as to other questions. The government is doing what it thinks is the best for the workers. Enemy of good is always the best, we understand that. The country's budgetary potential is specific. But you will allow me to tell you that we have a sense - and that is what we receive from society, from the world and from the workers - that what we have done since the first day when we saw the big wave - see - this unprecedented wave that was coming to the country, as we are all over the world in all the developed countries, the pandemic, we have prepared at high speed in no time, we have made decisions in no time. The Prime Minister himself put the good of health as the top priority, and you see that this was "godled" as a political decision. And today Greece is the positive example that opens the door to tourism - Mr Theocharis is here, he will tell you shortly - to hope that we will have at least a much better perspective than the lost ground, which we will certainly have. At the same time we have taken measures unprecedented, such as the ban on redundancies. All the measures we have taken, Mrs Sakova, have been in the direction of maintaining jobs. The suspension of contracts of employment up to 1 June, i.e. until the end of May, which has become all this first wave of our interventions, has shown that we are concerned, that we are sensitive. A safeguard clause for jobs on the one hand for companies, so that anyone who makes use of these beneficial tools that we have given them to make the safeguard clause on jobs, a ban on redundancies. And now you will tell me, I have heard your phrase 'the sack of redundancies'. I would also like to give two important news to your question about the dismissal wave. Look, and in the communication I made with the co-legislative ministers - Mr Stavoura and Mr Georgiadis - the other day for the new environment as from 1 June, and then I made a detailed reference to an issue that I will repeat. No one said that we were dealing with the problem, we have a recession which will leave a print on the labour market. The progressed decline in unemployment that we inherited in February 2019 at 18.6% fell in February 2020 to 16%, reduced unemployment to 2.4 points over a year. Unfortunately, however, this will be overturned. Sadly, but we don't stay with our hands crossed. We have taken all these measures, I do not repeat them. You will see today, Mrs Sacorafa, a new package of measures in our legislative initiative. But we avoided the surge of redundancies. And I'm not saying it as a Minister of Labour, it's what reality says and when reality says it, they're talking about the evidence. What did the "ERGAN" show? In March 2020, we had forty thousand five hundred redundancies, a negative balance which was until 18 March, which means that redundancies have been nullified as a result of the measures that we started taking with the first MDGs. Secondly, in April the balance of "ERGANI" showed, together, seven thousand two hundred five positions. We are not celebrating the seven thousand, but we are saying that the wave of redundancies has not happened. And thirdly, May, I am giving you this as news now, at the "ERGANI" level, has a positive sign. So we didn't see a wave of redundancies. What do we see from June 1st? The hundred and twenty thousand workers of compulsory reintegration into tourism and the forty thousand more seasonal - eighty and forty make us twenty - that is not compulsory for their reintegration. In Mr Katsotis' first question I gave you detaileds - you were here - what our bill will say in this world. And the eighty thousand will be protected and all forty thousand. So all we don't do is careless and not interested in this world. We are next to them with all our strengths, the Prime Minister, the Ministers, the MPs, all together, because we have said that this battle in the unprecedented crisis will give it all together, the state, businesses and workers to go out the next day together all united from this crisis and go to a 2021, which will also win at a recession level, which will go back to growth, and at a labour market level, which will become a great divergence of unemployment, all together to win the lost ground that we lost in 2020 because of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u74	Mrs. Sacorafa, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much for having the kindness to answer. You should know I'm watching you very carefully. I read your statements very well and I will stand by a statement which gives me a sense of security and I would very much like this to happen. You say: "The battle from now on, the battle that opens, the battle that comes, the difficulties facing us, we will seek all citizens together not to remain uncovered." I personally have not questioned either your good intentions or your willingness to solve the problems and, of course, I have not called into question the measures taken by the government so far. But, Minister, you have not today disproved whether redundancies have been released since 1 June. And that is very important. Personally, I am also opposed to the objections of State intervention in private contracts, because in the years of the memoranda we have all experienced the most violent interventions of the state, which have undominated the principle of private autonomy, but always at the expense of workers and the weakest. I also oppose the argument on the upcoming development, which we are all discussing in future, with assumptions and forecasts, if not - I would consider myself personally - and to be unrealistic. As you can see, Minister, I do not go into political analyses or, above all, I do not go into complaints. That is not what is being asked at the moment, at least on my part, because reality is tragically hard. The risk of the explosion of unemployment, which I mentioned earlier, is with uncontrolled consequences, is before the gates and we must be careful. Any attempt to enjoy this reality, I think, is inappropriate for you personally, because you are making an effort, but also for those affected. I don't know what exactly you're going to tell them that it's not like that? According to government announcements, the mechanism to strengthen employment in the form of financial support for short-term work will be financed by the ‘SURE’ European Programme and will be activated from 1 June to 30 September 2020. The State undertakes to make 60% of the full-time workers' income for the time they do not work. But I believe, Minister, that you must immediately take the necessary steps to ensure that the labour force makes the remaining 40%, so that there is no reduction in the incomes of workers in practice. This regulation, however, covers existing full-time workers. All the rest of you, Minister? The hundreds of thousands of workers employed under part-time employment contracts - have you mentioned earlier to some - whom you are looking after rotating employment, will they lead to total economic impoverishment? Will you provide, Minister, for an explicit ban on the application of any form of rotating employment for workers who are already working with part-time work? Will 100% be replaced by the loss from the "Cooperative Work" programme or hundreds of thousands of workers lead to economic impoverishment? I ask you these questions, which are also proposals, on the minimum protection of workers and incomes, within your logic and in the government's announcements. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President, to make a little misuse of time, to go to a last timely and burning issue. Minister, the schools are opening. You have correctly regulated the leave for special purpose workers in the public sector and for workers in the private sector, because the full-time school will not work. However, there remains a problem for the free traders, but also for the self-employed. The full-day school is a solution for them. These people cannot take leave of themselves and the cessation of the full-day operation of the school will force them or exercise their activity for less time or make a large amount available from their already reduced income. This will have a direct impact on their biopolitics, but will also have a direct impact on their families' quality of life. I know, Minister, that this is not only about your Ministry, your portfolio, but could you tell us what the government plans for freelance professionals and self-employed people who have children in schools? Thank you, Mr President, for the misuse of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u76	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u77	My colleague, I listened carefully. You have set a series of many things, always kind and always beautiful, as you know to be placed. I would therefore like to say a few things on the basis of all the questions you have raised, to what I can answer - I have not retained all of them, because you have overcome the context of your question - which is of greater interest and are also related to the legislative initiative which comes immediately after the debate on the next draft law on labour matters, the intervention of the Ministry of Labour and the Government in the matter of the protection of workers and businesses from 1 June onwards. So I put them in a row. Firstly, I would like to make it quite clear for once that part-time work is part-time. There is no developed country in the world, which does not have, Mr Philly, flexible forms of employment, none at all. All developed countries in the world have flexible forms of employment, concentrating on two arms: parttime work and rotating employment. Is that in our homeland? Sure. It is Law 1892/1990, which was correctly introduced at the time, because whoever dares to press the button with an article and a law to abolish flexible forms of employment, the next day will be hundreds of thousands of unemployed on the road and thousands of businesses will put a padlock on the ground. It is right, therefore, that SYRIZA did not respect his pre-election commitment that when it becomes a government in 2015, a law and an article will abolish flexible forms of employment and maintain Law 1892/1990. This is therefore an institutional framework - within our country's labour law - correct, correct, which exists in the labour market, as in all the countries of Europe. Secondly, what happened during the pandemic that was conducted - rightly or unjustly, people judge - criticism? We have brought under Article 9 of the Act of Legislation of 20 March an extraordinary rotation of employment because of the pandemic. It's been criticised. I accept it. Welcome! But what did we say? We have said, Mrs Sakorafa, that the issues of these measures we have taken on the labour market are temporary, are urgent and necessary to deal with this difficult period. And when we get out of this difficult period, we'll come back to normal working law as we knew it. So I tell you today that in the bill, which will be submitted shortly, this act of legislation of 20 March, Article 9 is repealed with effect from 15 June, which means what? It means that we have used it as an extraordinary tool to deal with the wave of redundancies in this two-month period and in practice we prove that what we are saying is in line with them. We are abolishing the legislative act of 20 March, Article 9, which has been very critical. What do we do now? Since June 1st, we have a new environment. In all suspensions for business areas, which the Ministry of Finance has identified as having to remain with an administrative mandate closed, workers will have absolute protection with an administrative suspension of contracts of employment and protection. It opens up an issue: tourism and foodism. In a short time, during the debate on the bill, as I said before in the question on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece, we come here and do what we can, which I think is very important and embraces the world of foodism and tourism. Firstly, we are bringing the instrument, which is called the 'Co-operation' programme - so we have called it - a special programme from the European Commission of 1.4 billion, which is the 'SURE' programme and we are seeking to get more money. We can use this tool in the area of the labour market, which, due to the hardship of an enterprise's revenues, is forced, in order to keep its workers and jobs, to put them in rotation. It's a reality. We take the hand of the entrepreneur and say to him "we don't want you to put a padlock on." Because, if he puts a padlock on, the jobs go. We want you to open up the operation and we come as a state to give you tools, either with VAT, either with the refundable advance or with other tools, which the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Development and we, from the Ministry of Labour, tell him "take the Cooperative". What are we doing here? If you rotate the worker up to 50% - it is not compulsory, up to 50% - and if it wants to, the state comes and replaces him from 83% to 100% of the income. 60% of loss, yes, it is described within the law, but the result is with all the insurance contributions and after tax, that no worker will be found under 83.5% loss of income, up to 100%. It is therefore a very important intervention with European resources to support workers' incomes and keep jobs. Secondly, for all the tourist workers who are in the environment of compulsory reintegration, as the law says, we are coming and doing so. I mentioned just now and you will see it in the law, that this will gradually be done on the basis of the completeness of the hotels, if and if the hotelier wants to pull his workers out according to completeness. No, 'if he wants', he is obliged to do that, that is, 20%, 50% or 80%, he takes them all, but we put them all in suspension of EUR 534 plus insurance contributions that the state will pay them. So the whole world of tourism, these over eighty thousand workers are fully covered. Secondly, we have also taken care of seasonal workers who are not in the environment of compulsory reintegration. And what did we do, Mrs. Sacorafa? Quite simply, we are also mobilising outside the special purpose allowance that we will give them as a financial support allowance through the OAED for others we are motivating businesses to hire them and we will pay them the employer's contribution for their insurance contributions. So you see we don't claim perfect or infallible. I have never done so in my life, neither as a Member nor as a Minister, I have never said that there is the perfect thing, because societies are evolving and new needs are being created in normal conditions and under abnormal circumstances. There is a framework for budgetary capacity, there are tools used. The tools and policies of society, by the parties, are appreciated. But I want you to know that we give our soul and our hearts to each man separately in this difficult period. And we'll keep doing this all the time, Mrs. Sacorafa. And by the way...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u78	Minister, you've gone a long way from time to time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u79	I'm closing, Mr. President. I would like to say another important one: in addition to the abolition of the act of legislation which means that what we have said, namely that the measures are of an exceptional, temporary nature and necessary nature, we are doing so by abolishing the act of legislation, of rotation - we are doing something else. Since 16 June, all companies have been obliged to return to the pre-crisis status and to submit their data to the ERGANI, but to submit them in advance, in real time, and thus the APRC will be able to carry out normal checks to see whether working conditions and labour law are ensured and whether the worker is protected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u80	We move on to the first with number 737/25-5-2020 in the first cycle of MP I Athens, the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Friend to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Personal data of students and teachers in the conduct of distance education, especially after the decision on live retransmission of courses". I just want to remind you that a draft law has already been tabled by the Ministry of Education, so you will have the opportunity next week to have a more comprehensive debate, so we will have to stay on the subject a little bit today. Mr. Friends has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I find myself in the unpleasant position today to refer to the situation in education during the pandemic, a situation which is reflected in yesterday's poll, where, while the government has a great deal of public acceptance -85% - on the subject of the state of education there is a sharp drop in public confidence in the government. It is the minority now that says the government is doing well in education in the pandemic. Are you worried about that? Minister, with the responsibility that we must have and with the accuracy of our speeches in the Greek Parliament, I am tabling a point. Four hundred thousand students and students, 61% of those in secondary education, are not involved in this period. I mean, we have open schools. Most of these children have no opportunity for distance education, because you have not taken care of this. The amendment on cameras in distance education was correctly rejected by all teachers because it was an anti-educational and anti-democratic measure. Also, there is no possibility, when the teacher works in class, that there should be at the same time distance instruction. That's the reality. If you are questioning it, I would like official information from the'myschool'. I commit that 61% of high school and high school pupils - in high school is over 70% - do not go to school and have no distance education. We want evidence officially and not whispers without evidence here in the House. The President said that the bill was tabled. Next week we'll talk about it in the House since Monday. It is a bill that undermines the right of students and pupils to education and brings the market school. I'll talk to you all about it. All educational bodies - ILO, OELE, ALL - have disagreed. You in the pandemic insist on bringing pandemic to education as a permanent element. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let's go to the topical question now because the Greek people are listening to us. Please let anyone who can hit the official address of the Ministry's website "minedu.gov.gr". What won't he see there? Firstly, there is no 'accept', 'I do not accept', for cookies. And when we say 'cookies' about the specific situation we are discussing, it is also about the possibility of using personal data. You've got them open. Secondly, there is no privacy policy posted on the Ministry's website. Thirdly, there is the name of the data protection officer whom you have just appointed 15 days ago, after eleven months of widowhood of this post and when you began two and a half months ago in distance training. And, fourthly, there is no record of activities as requested by OELE. For all this, you refused to answer the House when I asked you the questions on 11 April in time. You refused, in other words, to answer whether you were complying with European legislation, with the Constitution and with Greek legislation. For all this means that they are defenseless, helpless students, one and a half million minors and about two hundred and fifty thousand teachers, officials of the Greek state. Unarmed in hackers, unarmed for their personal data. Furthermore, Minister, you have not published the impact assessment, although you refer to it in your amendment, following the labelling of the Privacy Authority. Is this an impact assessment? Who wrote her? Is she classified? Have you put it in mind of the principle? What did he say in writing? Nothing, so far. And there is the question that the principle of clarification has sent you from 18 May and, unfortunately, you are still doing what you do not hear, that you do not read. There's another matter. You did not deposit the donation agreement with 'CISCO'. This agreement, which is kept secret and confidential, raises a number of questions and economic issues and highlights the economic nature. Bring her to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Philly, a request for time. You've already reached five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u83	I shall conclude, Mr President. The questions we have put to you and ask you for a concrete answer are: If you confirm, on the basis of documents, that there has been no leakage of personal data by students or teachers, both in public and in private education, during distance learning. Are you sure? I want a categorical answer today in the House. Secondly, what does the Ministry of Education grant agreement include with CISCO? That's not confidential. They have to testify to the House. Mr President, thank you for understanding. I would like to say that this is a very serious matter. We are all aware that this is the greatest possibility of breaking personal data for one and a half million minors in our country and for two hundred thousand teachers, civil servants and private employees. It is a great danger, so I ask again: Is there certain, do you have any evidence that there has been no breach of personal data? I want a straight answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Friend, I have an understanding. I don't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u85	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. The answers must not be a rhetorical one, but with evidence, because I spoke with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u86	Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Thank you both for the question and for the opportunity to clarify some of the information on distance education. Of course, I can only observe, my dear friend, that you are writing in the timely question, but you are invoking oral development and then talking about compliance with Parliament's Rules of Procedure! Let's start with a favorite theme: your disdain for anything that's private. You say in your question that there are risks from the free concession from the ‘CISCO’ platform during the pandemic and that an alternative proposal from the SYRIZA was to take full account of the work of distance learning by the relevant public bodies. When, Mr. Philly, we were preparing for the pandemic, the public bodies, we turned to the Panhellenic School Network. You know, Mr. Philie, how did you deliver us the Panhellenic School Network? You should know why you were Minister of Education. It could raise some five hundred simultaneous users. I repeat: five hundred! How many students do we have in the country, Mr. Philly? We have a million four hundred thousand students. He could raise five hundred students the school network, while the students in the country are a million four hundred thousand. What exactly was your alternative, Mr. Friend? That was the serious alternative of Officer Opposition's proposal, a solution that covers five hundred students - I repeat, five hundred students! - one million four hundred thousand students in the country? Fortunately you were not called upon to apply it, because you would leave, Mr. Friend, in the dark a million four hundred students. So we had five hundred simultaneous users, and in fact we had more than seven hundred thousand student participations every day in digital classes. We had 16 million five hundred and eighty - three thousand eighty - eighty - eighty - eighty - student participations aggregated in digital classes. And that's not the latest evidence. We had over 40 thousand ninety-seven digital classes a day, Mr. Philie. At the same time, with all this crisis management, alongside the educational community, we have taken care of and strengthened the Pan-Hellenic School Network. You chose to sub-finance the Pan-Hellenic School Network and up to five hundred simultaneous users. That's what you delivered. We chose the extension from a central server to over ten public school networks, Mr. Philly, to support the school, which you left naked. There was an extension to over ten networks with significant results in the functionality of the electronic courses with the contribution of both the EDTE and the Ministry of Digital Governance. And we didn't stop there. Because you're also asking about the aftermath. We have already made a request, Mr Philadelphia, to the Institute of DIOFANTOS and to the next major step, to create a central system of computing clouds which will gradually cover all the activities of the educational structures. Amidst a crisis, we are in every way strengthening, by every means, public school. But let's go see the equipment issues in the schools too. In June 2019, Mr. Phile, you handed over the country's governance in early July with four thousand five hundred portable devices all over the country. We in just two months of pandemic, have taken care of the extra equipment of twenty thousand devices via donations and have already launched ESDP procedures for another forty-eight thousand eight hundred devices. We're doing all this in the middle of a pandemic. So you had four and a half thousand portable devices. We provide over seventy thousand devices in just a few months. I come to 'CISCO'. 'CISCO', Mr. Friend, provides a platform that is configured to the needs of the Ministry of Education for free all the time and until July. No name or e-mail is required to connect a student. Just a nickname to connect to his digital class. There is no use of personal data other than the purpose of this provision. It is also intended to respect Union and Greek personal data legislation that you seem to be concerned about. And I'm saying late, why, really, Mr. Friend, what have you been doing just so many years for personal data, in general, at the Ministry of Education? [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] You're telling us there wasn't a DPO and a processor for 11 months, and not even an hour left without a DPO the Ministry for our day. On the same day, the previous DPO was released from office and at the same time a new one was set. But you, by means of the 2016 GDPR Regulation - if I am not mistaken, were Minister in 2016 - were interested in the personal data you have never set on your days DPO. You'll tell me it wasn't mandatory yet. If you had such an interest in personal data, wouldn't you have complied with the regulation? Let's put it aside. The definition of the DPO shall be mandatory on 25 May 2018. Did you define DPO? No, Mr. Philly, in violation of the regulation you did not define DPO. It's been months until you set DPO in breach of the general regulation. So, Mr. Philie, some people probably left the ministry unarmed and now they come with courage to indulge those who have noticed in every detail the personal data of the entire educational community. I shall return, Mr President, with other answers to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Friends has the floor for his dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister didn't initialize. He referred to numbers that are false for impressions. He said, for example, that only five hundred users at the same time raised the Panhellenic School Network. Does that mean responsiblely and in writing? He'll be disobeyed. No lies in the House. Not degradation and humiliation of the work of the public education system. This is the conduct of the Government It says five hundred concurrent users on the Panhellenic School Network. It is a shame to behave in this way against those who have fought today, the years before and during the SYRIZA government to have a public Panhellenic School Network, which had to be upgraded and you did not do so. It could be upgraded and you didn't. Will you do it by September? You've got two months ahead of you. The debate is not about the past, it is about the future. Will you upgrade the Panhellenic School Network until September, so that without 'CISCO' there can be the possibility through the public system of interrupting thousands of digital classes in September? It's an expense of about 30m euros. That's what experts say. I don't know, but I hear it. Do it in the two-month period. Leave everything else, the defamation of the public. I also requested evidence. You didn't answer me. Can I repeat the questions? It's boring. However, I repeat that the information I have requested relates to the implementation of European and Greek legislation. There is nothing about cookies on the Ministry's site, "I accept" or "I do not accept". This means that the data are open to commercial use. This is a very serious matter. Secondly, you have no privacy policy posted. Thirdly, there is no name of the data protection officer appointed just 15 days ago and ten months ago. Leave the others you're talking about now, we're talking about you. We had and resigned when you came and did not replace it. Fourthly, you have not yet replied to the Privacy Authority in the questions it has put to you. For the impact assessment, nothing has been heard again today. I asked you questions. I live in one that is the crucial question: Are you confirming the National Representation that there is no breach of personal data from the classes you mentioned earlier and that is, of course, a mythical number? There is nothing today, training is dissolving with the deserving opening of schools. Are you sure the children, the personalities of children and teachers are fortified? Don't rush to say 'yes'. You didn't say that in your protology. We didn't do the hacker function. We entered Google, at the address "statistics of modern and asynchronous distance learning". You check Google on your computer, too. Of this, then, he sent us in the record from which a leak occurs. I stress that there is a leak of personal data from teachers and students, which therefore relates to statistics on modern and asynchronous education. In particular, it covers two thousand twenty-four entrys of hundreds of teachers with information such as name, school, class, class, class, number of students involved, course duration, date, time to stay in the classroom and personal notes or comments of teachers. The flash drive's here. I put it to the Bureau. If you don't bother to look into it, I'd like to tell you that it's very simple the process to see it. The address is clear, too. [[At this point the Member, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned USB stick, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I repeat: there is evidence that there is a leak of personal data. Unfortunately, or you don't know it, which is a problem, or you hide it, which is a crime, and it's a violation of the Constitution and legislation. I don't want to go on anymore. I'm requesting evidence of the dissolution of the schools with the three hundred thousand outside classes. You didn't answer! Bring the elements of the Myschool to the House. No words! And, secondly, tell us what happens with the flash drive what any Greek citizen can find on the way to the address I mentioned earlier. I tabled it to the Bureau of Parliament. Unfortunately it contains absolutely personal, but it is in common, apparently, the secrets of these children and teachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u90	You gave the Secretariat the flash drive to get in a file, to write it right and sign it. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, regarding the Panhellenic School Network, I guess, Mr. Friend, you didn't hear what I said. I said we have launched exactly the complete upgrading of the system, which you have never done. And we have started it in collaboration with the EDTE and the "DIOFANTOS" Institute. You mentioned one element and I will examine it with great interest, because whenever there is one, everything that concerns the functioning and committing of crimes in the school environment, whether by living or not, there is information from the Ministry. I shall therefore examine with great interest what you are saying, because I personally have not received such information as the one you are tabling. But let's take a walk away from things, Mr. Philie. Why are we here today? Because you didn't want distance education from the start. You fought her, rabies. Instead of joining the national effort in the months of the crisis, you have opposed remoteness and you have always been in trouble. Solutions never! Just trouble! So you opposed the opening of schools despite the downward course of the disease, despite the unanimous recommendations of experts. You said: "Great and unnecessarily sanitary risk of the reopening of high school schools, the first and second." Even Mr Tsiodras, Mr. Friend, commenting on his statements on the opening of schools: "The ultimate theatre of irrationality and risky experiments with the health of teachers, children and their families". Do you have a better scientific opinion on the course of the epidemic? And what, then, would you like to understand? Would you like to leave our children six months in the dark? What's your counter-proposal? What's your objection? Since the 11th of May, which was reopened by the Third High School and then all high school and high school in all schools, it was not fortunately seen a single case. And that bothers you, Mr. Friend? Does it bother you that the teachers responded extremely well to distance education? Does it bother you that the government has succeeded, but the country and the educational community have a great victory? Does the three mobile operators have given free access to the electronic platforms used by the Ministry of Education for remote learning? Do you prefer the citizen to be charged or to be excluded from access to education? Darkness and there, Mr. Friend? Yesterday I read a statement from you. He bothered you that he was supposed to be 60%, you say, he's not going to school.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u92	61%.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u93	First, to be precise, the participation rate in high school in the first two grades is 49% and close to 50%. Why was this possibility granted? Because it was dictated by the experts, thanks to whom we have been extremely active in these difficult months of the crisis. Experts said: To be able on the basis of a simple statement by a parent or guardian to be absent, for one in his family may belong to an increased - risk group or may be ill. So the experts recommended this simple statement, why? To protect personal health, family health, public health. But in any case, Mr. Philly, what do you say about 50% of going to school? And what about the other 50% that won't go? For those present you prefer not to open the school. For those not necessarily absent, you don't want to pass a lesson from class. SYRIZA attribute! Negative everywhere! Everybody in the dark! And now the restoration of truth, Mr. Friend. You're telling your timely question that the Personal Data Protection Authority is disputing my pleas of consultation. Mr. Philly, do we read any other texts? The principle itself says: 'After an advisory recommendation from the authority'. Where's the denial? It confirms in the most deafening way that the consultation also took place and incorporated exactly the Authority's comments. Of course, the principle also says something else that you do not mention in the friendly tactics. It says the principle: 'The purpose of the specific transmission process is, in principle, legitimate'. Did you say that, Mr. Philly? I didn't find it in your question. I don't remember you mentioning this anywhere. I am passing through, he has an interest in being a defender of the independent authorities that you, under the rule of SYRIZA, even want to abolish. Mr. Philie, I've been very clear in the first place on the transmission of lessons. When the state provides for the possibility for some pupils to stay out of school for preventive reasons of individual and public health, it is also a self-evident obligation for the State to provide for access for these pupils to the distance education process. We've got some sort of regulation in this House. We've distributed that we're going to move it through to the end. That is what we did, we brought a ministerial decision, we brought a circular under the provision, and we took care to protect all the rights of the educational community. Teachers, just as they have exceptionally implemented distance learning throughout the suspension of schools, are now being asked to allow children who are staying home to have access to education. You say that this arrangement does not meet in any educational system in the world. Mr. Friend, do you have a picture of what's going on in the world? I will not take you to countries like America, which this system is fully implemented. Don't go far. Let's stay in Europe. Do you know, for example, that this live-life transmission system has been being implemented in the Netherlands for years - do you know that? - for children with serious illnesses and should they be absent? Undiagnosed again, Mr. Friend. An impact assessment report referred to in Article 35 has, of course, been prepared. It does not result in a risk that requires further steps. And to all the written questions we will answer, Mr. Friend, both to yours and to OELE. Don't worry about it. Personal data, of course, are protected literally by the General Data Protection Regulation and all members of the educational community have been informed accordingly. Mr. Philie, have you read the relevant extensive circulars that have been sent to the personal data subjects? Two-tier legal basis, Rule 6.1.c and 6.1.e of the Rules of Procedure. Not a processing base, but two, and the provision of a public service and the existence of a legislative provision. Since the first circular sent for the implementation of distance, all the rights laid down in the Rules of Procedure, the right to confirm, the right to access, the right to correct, the right to object. I read, for example, from the circular with instructions sent on 17 May to the educational community, where it says in: 'Conformity with the Regulation, the purpose of processing the above data is to provide all the public good of education in an emergency, such as the COVID pandemic. The legal basis for such data is based on 6.1.c and 1.6.e of the Rules of Procedure.’ It is stressed that users have the right to obtain confirmation from the controller whether or not personal data concerning them are processed. Users have the right to access the data they create if they have used their actual data so that they can be identified. The right to rectify inaccurate access data, as well as under conditions, may be fulfilled by the Greek State to the private body authorised to operate the private educational structure to another controller, if that is technically feasible.’ I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: Mr Phily, I am sorry to see another timely question which, instead of contributing to the dialogue, only seeks to find problems. We find solutions to every problem. You find yourself in trouble in every solution. You have remained in the sterile confrontation, at SYRIZA's "not all". The whole country's changed. It went forward. You guys were just the same! Yesterday, a bill with concrete proposals for the overall upgrading of the school was tabled from the bottom up. You, too, invite to a rally the teachers who don't follow you. But are you not talking about the essence, why do you go out and say that you are opposed to school skills workshops, that you are opposed to offering school mild skills, life skills, technology and science skills? Where can you go from here to say that you are opposed to the strengthening of IT, of foreign languages, the arrangements for combating bowling, the evaluation? I hope, even on Monday when we are going to have a draft bill debate, that we hear proposals and not just pretext problems in everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u94	Answer another question, not mine. It's other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u95	This is parliamentary control, questions and answers. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, I have now come to the Chair and see that they have been answered, only seven topical questions have been answered. So you're here two and a half hours and I see that not only is time being observed, but it was more than double by all the questions and the relevant ministers. Parliamentary control has this meaning to be short, comprehensive, clear and specific. So if we are talking here about criticising the bills or how they were implemented, that is a big problem. We'll never finish. Today, at the same time, we also have ratification of an act of legislation. We can't finish today. That is why, please, the time is up to now. I repeat, the time for honourable Members is two and three minutes, and the ministers are three and three minutes. We now move on to the third debate under number 734/25-5-2020 on the first-round question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "Suspension of school tours internal and external without the provision for a refund of money". The question will be answered by the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Our question concerns school trips, which have been cancelled. It is worth being said here and the little story of this question is heard. Originally submitted on 6 March - i.e. about three months ago - and addressed to the Ministry of Education and Finance. Of these two ministries, the Treasury responds and declares incompetence. The Ministry of Education neither voice nor hearing for weeks! We put it as a topical question on 11 May at the Ministry of Education because, as we know, we are talking about school trips, we are talking about tours approved by the Ministry of Education. The Minister for Education is here, he knows this question. We are therefore tabling it as timely. But according to the Government Secretariat, it is the Ministry of Tourism, not the Ministry of Education, which is why we are rescheduling it, and finally the time has come for it to be debated today. Eventually late than never, anyone would say! So let us go to the essence of the question, Minister. As is well known, the pandemic has been canceled in addition to other school trips for the interior and abroad. Several of them involved schoolchildren’s, graduation, high school, all over the country, even excursions - visits here in the House. As it is also known, of course, that all these excursions are prepaid by the students’ families long before they take place. And the money parents give for these excursions isn't too small! In accordance with the legislation, after the pandemic trips had been cancelled, even in accordance with the agreements signed for these tours, this money had to be repaid as unduly paid to the parents who gave it. However, the government comes and brings on 13 April another act of legislation on the basis of which it is admitted that it is a 'favourable' consequence as to whom the legislative acts are ultimately favoured, the seventh article of which refers to the contracts between tourist enterprises and their customers, as it writes. Among their clients, of course, are schools. According to the Act of Legislative content, the Government has therefore exempted tourist companies from their contractual obligation to reimburse the money of the tours that have never been made and to replace them with the known vouchers over a period of eighteen months. This seventyth article is included as the fourth customer category - so it is described, so it is called - both schools and school excursions. But, Minister, I would like to tell you here, first of all, that school excursions throughout the education range do not have a purely tourist character. They are both educational and pedagogical and must of course be. Faced with this situation, as you can see, Minister of Tourism - because you were finally asked to reply - the clergy received you! - the government must give a solution, as we are of course asking the government, excluding first of all - and that is what we say - the school trips from the seventeenth article of this MDG, so that then, as a government, you can see to it that the families who have given them back the money for these excursions. So this is our question and we are anxiously waiting, like thousands of parents, for us to know what the government intends to do about this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u97	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr. Delis. I didn't know the whole story of that question. I am not sure how it was tabled and with what problems in March when the legislature took place since April and then in relation to the voucher.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u99	The excursions had been cancelled. I'll say it. I'll explain it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u100	In any case, you will say that in your dentistry. In any case, the government because of the pandemic, due to an event that was both unpredictable and severe and had serious consequences for economic activity, for health and other reasons, initially canceled a series of activities, such as school excursions, but then reached a complete stop to more economic activity and, of course, with our fellow citizens and our families being locked up in our homes most of the time. This, as you can see, was necessary and was a conscious choice of the government. It was a difficult decision, but this decision saved lives and proves itself what the sensitivities of this government are, contrary to what you are trying to convince us. But there are also economic consequences for these decisions, which are important and cannot be ignored. Of course, the government had to support both the businesses and the workers of these companies, because you are now trying to convince us that travel agencies with two, three, four employees are the big capital. You won't convince the Greek people. The Greek people have eyes and sees what kind of business we are talking about and what kind of workers we are talking about. They were therefore found in a very difficult situation, which would inevitably lead to redundancies and locks. The Government has taken a number of decisions to support workers with benefits in order to enable employment relationships not to be lost and to prevent firms from having the right to alter working relationships and to place workers on a job suspension to stop the bleeding of their expenses. Here, therefore, was an issue in relation to advances, which have been given by customers. There is a European directive that protects consumers' rights and, of course, there is also the Presidential Decree of 2018, which refers to these issues and actually comes directly from this directive. Under normal circumstances the rights of customers are protected because a small percentage asks for their advance. But here, we are talking about businesses that had to return to 100% of their customers the advances they have made. Do you have any idea where this money is? This money was given to the airlines and the hotels. In fact, most of these were not returned because we were still at a time when we had not been declared a pandemic to have the so-called 'force majeure', that is, the extraordinary need for these agencies to ask for the money back. So, at the moment, the choice was not between the consumer or the company, as you are trying to present it, but it was actually among the consumers, because the scenario in which the money is returned to all consumers does not exist. There is only one scenario in which the first one who knocks at the agency's door gets his money back, the second takes his money back, the third - I say to you - takes his money back and the other seven out of ten won't get their money back, because the company will be closed down, bankrupt and run to court. So from the consumer's point of view, from the point of view of not only of the agency, of course, and of the agency, of course of business, because we do not want unemployment, unless the JRC is in favour of unemployment and against labour, if you are going to tell us - we had to find a new, difficult balance, the golden cut. This balance was given through this voucher. With this voucher, taxpayers do not lose their money. In eighteen months, if not used, they'll get this money in full. Also, they don't lose their rights. They have a right to insist on returning their money. It is obvious that in most cases companies choose and press for the acceptance of these vouchers. The market has responded and I urge it again to respond more effectively and more specifically. He gave, after inciting the president of the SETE himself, increased value in these vouchers. If you were to get 100 euros in your hands, he would say "if you use the voucher, take 120, get an upgrade", so that the voucher would want to cash it, instead of taking your money back. Of course in eighteen months with the economy running, those who stay and have not exploited this money, the vouchers, will take all their money back without causing any danger.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u101	Finish, Minister. You've been in six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u102	I'm finishing up and I'll see you in dentistry. So here we also have the question of consumer protection. We do not deny that there are special cases such as, for example, the III high school excursions, such as changes in people's living conditions, a move to another city or anything else that really does not allow them to use these vouchers. In this case I also call on the Step of the House - I have already made it - the market respond wisely and accept these requests for reimbursement. We'll say more about that in my dentistry, so we won't be late.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Delia, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. I will answer the question of how and how this question was tabled on 6 March. The Minister probably doesn't know. The school trips were cancelled, postponed, suspended at the end of February and when the pandemic phenomenon had already begun. However, note from the beginning of March - even from 6 March we tabled the question - it takes some forty days to the 13th of April, which will come out of the WFP, in particular Article 70 of this act. Until then, and for all this time, the government has done nothing at all in terms of tourist businesses, so that these families, the people's families who have given 200, 300, 500 euros to take a trip to their children, take their money. And when we, Minister, are talking about tourism, we are not only talking about the small tourist offices of the three and four employees. We understand in here. We are talking about the major transport companies, about the airlines, about the major hotel units which, of course, you have also, like the previous ones, and now more about the pandemic. That's what we're talking about. You have spoken about the balance with which society is burdening the burdens. Are you serious? Is that the same balance? Are burdens borne in a proportionate manner? For some, Minister, a penny is the money they want to live for a whole month and for others a five-and-a-half - for all these grown-ups - is to get out to get a coffee. So it is not the same, and we cannot equate them. In any case, we are reintroducing our proposal to even now exclude school tours from Article 70. I will explain to you some particular features that school excursions have. First of all, no one can confirm here that the next year or the aftermath will be the school trips, that they will be allowed. Who can say that? We don't know the evolution of the pandemic phenomenon. It is unknown whether these excursions will be made if three or four people can stay in hotels, all of them, anyway, details of the operating tours. Another element that differentiates these excursions from the rest and does not make them a simple tourist product is that parental signatures are needed. It's necessary. They don't need the rest of the excursions. In order to carry out these tours, it is also compulsory to carry out a tender, Minister. It is therefore very likely that the agency, which owes this money, will not reduce to a next competition and thus get rid of its obligation to fulfil these obligations. Also - and I think that's self-evident, everyone understands - the students who are now in the 3rd grade or the students who are now in the 4th grade and who are going to change school unit next year, how are they going to go on a school trip? Are they going to be rediscovered after a few months, will they make a'reunion' to make a school trip? These are some of the elements which make up the specificity of this situation and which obliges you, we say, to exclude school trips so that they can repay this money to the parents. In relation to the financial costs of the burdens borne, etc., the Government has two persons. On the one hand, we have the big business groups. I mention a few examples: the canalarchs who have exempted them from the obligation to pay this year's fee for the channels they have and which are some millions, the motorway owners are also fed to them, since the relevant laws with guaranteed revenue clauses have been signed, i.e. if any fewer cars are passed by now with the pandemic, their money will be paid to the clinical authorities 30 million, so for advance payments at the beginning and then double the costs of intensive care units, so as to pretend that they are 'psychicks'. For all of these, the government is galantoma! He's giving it more than that! However, we are talking here about the workers and we are talking about the people's families and about the sums they need. It is not enough that they have had so far, unemployment, poverty, insecurity from the pandemic, but even money they have given to take a tour of their children can't even get them back. They'll take it, you say, eighteen months later. Ask me May to eat a clover! In any case, we say that this must now be done. We're not the only ones who tell you, Minister. We convey here the voice of thousands of people who communicate with us, because this question was very much resonant and I am, for example, presenting a memo from the Parents' Association of the Municipality of Alexandroupolis. Families in this region of course have even more travel expenses as you understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u105	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now, of course, you found a priest and said to bury you five, six. We talked about highways, we talked about a number of issues. I'm gonna get over all this. I have tried to explain to you that I am not just talking from the business side but also from the consumer side. Closed businesses - I say again - will lead to unemployment, and indeed unemployment, which will be concentrated in northern Greece and Thessaloniki, and in these areas because several of the tours we are discussing are concentrated there because the tours had already been carried out before the pandemic came. Therefore, workers' problems will be real, but parents' problems will be real, trying to get their money and they will have to do so judicially. You understand what this means, that is to say, getting into later costs to get these 500 euros. Most people will just give up and lose that money. We therefore also protect parents from a process which protects the possibility of companies giving back money and where they cannot give vouchers, without - and I say again - losing any right. These vouchers are nominally with children, they can be exploited from the whole family either for a school trip or for another service from the same travel agency. So we should not create the wrong impression of losing any money. However, it is obvious that there are particular cases, such as Higher and Primary School, where you referred. Indeed, they are cases where the market should take account of travel agencies. And we're talking about travel agencies, don't talk about airlines, don't talk about hotels. They don't close the tours by taking just the tickets. They usually go to a travel agency that gives the whole package and bus, the transportation of children - because somewhere they go to a museum, some attractions - and any flight tickets are also needed, of course, any hotels, especially for exterior trips that were very common in previous years. So we protect by trying to find a golden incision, a thin line between two conflicting obligations the state must have. We're not in the Opposition. You have the luxury of representing a small part of the Greek people, the government represents everyone. Apart from ideologies, it makes its effort to ensure that everyone, the interests of all - who in many cases are conflicting - is balanced at the right point. Of course, we are judged, as everyone is judged by the Greek people. Now, in these cases, we have repeatedly contacted FEDHATTA, the Confederation of Travel Offices, so that the market itself can provide a reasonable solution. And I tell you, as I have said to them too - I am not saying anything different here in the presence of the Greek people - that if they propose some solutions, such as taking some of the money first and keeping part of the voucher for later and various other solutions, we will assess them and if we do not satisfy the solutions that the market will give, taking into account the specificities of parents and their problems, then we will even come through legislative intervention to impose what we consider fair. We believe, however, that the market has the power, has the potential and must not lose the opportunity to resolve this issue with sensitivity - where it must show sensitivity - and, of course, with protection for jobs and the productive fabric of the country, because this is the long-term concern of all of us, we have an economy that produces wealth and creates jobs for the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u107	In the main procedure in which we are going to get into legislative acts other than, of course, the rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives, there have been sixty speakers. So you realize that we will go too late. I would ask you once again to keep the time. We are now entering the fifth, with number 740/25-2020, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Papastastasis, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Emergency need to find a definitive solution for the accommodation of the officials of the Santorini Airport Fire Service". The timely question will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou. Here, Mr Papastasis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have already entered a time when the resistance of the Fire Corps, the personnel and the material will even exceed their limits. I would also like to make this introduction understand the main issue of today's question. For three years now, to firefighters serving at Santorini airport, there has been a constant smuggling on the part of both the former government of SYRIZA and New Democracy. It is a story that began in 2017 and, unfortunately, it continues to this day. This year the Ministry of Citizen Protection set up firefighters in "private" - within or outside of introductorys - Santorini airport, the airport of "FRAPORT". The Government of SYRIZA, the Government of New Democracy and the 'FRAPORT' have been completely inhumane. Common consent has made them live in unacceptable building facilities. Following the emergence of these conditions by the JRC, they were awarded for accommodation in the airport just as unacceptable a container. When they fairly protested with their report, what did you do? Throw them on the road, eventually through their administrations, in twenty minutes to have abandoned even these disgusting containers. And go where? Guilty silence! Minister, as an ex-military officer, the first thing I was taught was that, in order to give someone the execution of a mission, it is necessary to provide him with the necessary means to be able to carry out it. You know that very well from a neighbouring House, from which you come. If this condition is not met, the authorising officer shall be at least ineffective. In this case, however, it is absolutely dangerous. You as a government from these people after your attitude do not really have the right to ask them for anything. In your attitude you have weakened the relationship between the necessary duplex of command and command. This potentially creates conditions that are extremely dangerous for the effectiveness of the Fire Corps. However, let our people be sure that even under these circumstances the personnel of the Firehouse will carry out their mission. The firefighters of the "FRAPORT" airport in Santorini after the violence - on the order of their administration - eviction from the containers were unfamiliarly hosted by individuals who gave them two residences until the beginning of the tourist season. Today they are asked to comply with the agreed and deliver the houses. Firefighters will do it and be found once more on the road. The question, Minister, is: Are you - and I mean your Government - finally what will you do not as a moral obligation to these people? Because these concepts, as the evolutionary course of this story shows, you have written them - let me have the expression, they are heavy, but I will say it - in the oldest of your shoes. What measures will you take, if necessary, for the minimum effective execution of their missions? Or don't you care about her, either?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u109	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection and the physical leadership of the Firehouse are always planning and acting on the basis of two parameters, on the one hand, the protection of staff and the resolution of any difficulties that arise and, on the other hand, the achievement of the highest possible level of efficiency and efficiency in every task it takes. There is no doubt, therefore, that the issue you raise is of great concern to us and that we are dealing with your concern as a Member of the Greek Parliament for the way it is solved. However, do not monopolize this interest in staff to such an extreme extent. Recognize to us that we are interested in the staff with the same sensitivity that you are interested in! But let's see where the case is. In the context of protection against the spread of COVID -19 and in the light of the immunisation to the maximum extent possible of the local services of the Fire Corps, the 15848 decision of the Chief of the Fire Corps was adopted on 15 March 2020. In this context, and among other cases, the mandate was given to remove from the airport service facilities in Santorini that fire workers were not in service, so that there would be no crowding and problems arising from that reason and that we would comply with the instructions of the relevant scientific committee of infectious animals. The Headquarters of the Fire Corps, before these developments, had done everything possible to provide an even temporary basis - housing for firefighters at the airport of Santorini who could not find residence because of the high rents and the lack of a roof of twelve months, as a result of the conditions prevailing on the island due to increased tourist traffic and demand observed in the houses. Thus a sixty - square - square - square house was found, granted by a private person, for a free stay until the end of May of this year of those unable to cope with the immediate need for shelter. At the same time, it continues to communicate and cooperate with the municipality concerned in order to find a solution covering the period beyond May and until a final solution is given to the matter at the end of the year. In this respect - and as you will be aware - the same company, 'FRAPORT', has granted homes to the airport, where housing is now foreseen from May onwards, and the other conditions are quite satisfactory. With regard to your labelling for use and second residence by officials of this service of the Fire Corps, I would like to point out that the assurance of this was an initiative of their own, for which neither information nor involvement had been provided with the Fire Force Headquarters. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Papastasis, you have the floor for three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u112	Minister, your protology, your answer, unfortunately, confirms not the position, or if you want the concern of the Communist Party of Greece, but the desperation of these people who are suffering from these problems in Santorini. There was no assurance as to what would happen. We have heard promises and on this basis we will continue to observe and examine this story. However, the problems referred to in today's question, the Communist Party of Greece, considers them to be a symptom and is a symptom of a disease that is not the same, the barbaric, exploiting capitalist system that we live in. The system that safeguards people's property, even of human life itself, counts it with the backbone of profit. Nevertheless, even in these circumstances, for the Fire Corps it is urgent to tackle today - we are stressing it today - structural problems for the solution of which the Communist Party of Greece has solutions which are specific, practicable and which are in support of the people's interests, the protection of the environment, the extremism of every attempt to trade in public land. In overcoming the narrow context of today's question, let me mention a few: First of all, we must abolish all anti-African laws that have been passed by the governments so far. Repeal of Law 4662/2020 entitled ‘National Crisis Management and Risk Management Mechanism, Restructuring of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, etc.’. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Thirdly, a radical change and modernisation of the anti-nuclear design, fire protection and civil protection, with the sole aim of protecting the lives and property of the people and forest ecosystems. To increase permanent staff in the relevant civil protection, fire and forest services. Strengthen and renew the national air-freight and rescue fleet, taking into account the particular geomorphological conditions of our country. There will be a radical change in the way the fire extinguishers are trained through a three-year training plan, including practical training. Design the necessary forestry, anti-corrosion, flooding and ensuring the necessary credits. Apply a modern payroll for firefighters that will take into account today's cost of life and the inexhaustible wage promotion of all with the years of service, regardless of the level of service. All necessary means of protection for urban and forest fires shall be provided to all firefighters. This is a request that arrives to us from every fire station in Greece. Recognise their profession as heavy, unhealthy and dangerous, and establish the Presidential Decree on Health and Safety in the Operational Component.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u113	Please do not concern the Minister, who wants to follow the honourable Member. Of course, Mr. Economou can, like Origen, listen and watch, but that doesn't mean you can be concerned with him. I'm holding the time. Here you go, Mr. Papastasis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u114	Minister, we have referred to the fire department staff at the Santorini airport and I'm on my way. It is not the only case that faces these problems. There was a recent announcement from the Unified Racing Movement of Firefighters, you too are the recipients, as are the recipients of all the parliamentary parties. The very same case also applies to the island of Skiathos. Leased, lent homes, already their owners demand to return them, as they had agreed. And these firefighters will be on the road. We and from this Step here - and it is not the only one - call on all these people who are suffering these conditions - and it is not just Santorini and Skiathos - to overcome their suspensions, their fears, any commitments they have already made and to make public and claim self-evident. Their dignity is in their hands and in anyone else's hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. Please, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u116	I would like to stress, once again, that the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Headquarters of the Firehouse have been seized and are acting in the direction of finding the best possible solution to the issue you are developing. Despite the fact that the current situation at Santorini airport is, in fact, far from the housing conditions we want for firefighters, I must point out, however, that it concerns both the existing housing structures at the Santorini Airport, and what is envisaged to be implemented in the next few months by the end of December 2020, in particular: The spaces currently in the Santorini Airport's Fire Service consist of three dorm houses with a capacity of six, eighteen persons in total, with: Two washbasins, two showers and two toilets, each with an area of fifty square meters, a three-square house, with an independent toilet, a 50-square area, a four-square house with kitchen and toilet, an area of twenty-five square meters and a storage house for storage of material for a twenty-five-square area. All these spaces are of course also equipped with air-conditioning equipment. In addition, I would like to stress that, in a document on 23 March 2020, which I tabled in the Minutes of the House, the 'FRAPORT', to which the management of the regional airports of the country has been allocated, has notified our services that the completion of the building - which will also give a definitive solution to the issue that we are now called upon to manage - will be completed in this year, at the latest by the end of December 2020, much faster than was planned in the relevant contract. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The ‘FRAPORT’ undertakes, inter alia, to ensure and maintain at its own expense the appropriate equipment and facilities for the rescue and fire-fighting services, as well as buildings, equipment, systems and facilities of all regional airports. In conclusion, I want you to know that every effort is being made on the part of the Ministry, so that there is positive results both in the present temporary, transitional period of housing that we are going through, in relation to the accommodation of fire extinguishers in Santorini, as well as in respect of the fulfilment of the obligations of the "FRAPORT GREECE" towards the Greek public and you can be absolutely sure about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. This process and this time is the predictable and necessary. In other words, imagine that both Mr Papapastasis and the Minister have used less time than the one provided for in the Rules of Procedure. That is the essence of the questions: short, comprehensive and specific. We are now entering the second under number 718/20-5-2020 of the first cycle of the Corfu MP of the Change Movement Mr.Dimitrios Biagis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Application for a unit of rehab of the General Hospital of Corfu". The timely question will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I am here today before you, before the Delegation, in order to get some answers on a very sensitive issue concerning our youth, the youth of our region and the youth of our country in general. After many struggles, Corfu's society with the fronts of a group of scientists actually managed to operate within the boundaries of Corfu's Prefecture a unit of rehabilitation called "DIAPLOS", a unit that was the result of all the efforts made by the local community, by the institutions, the Church, all, if you like, of society, which had the help of the then regional authority, as well as almost the majority of the regional council. He also had the help of the then Vice-President of Health, Mr. Michaela. This entire effort of the local society with its institutions resulted in 2018, to integrate this structure into the organization of the Hospital of Corfu and in 2019 to be certified. Since then and so far, and while the political leadership, and today's and yesterday's wish, should give the principle of feasibility, with approval, in order to be able to claim financial aid from European programmes, from the NRP and so on, this approval of feasibility has not been granted. Our question is simple: why is it? This results in money coming under European programmes, not being able to claim from this body, from this structure, and, if you like, from bodies outside the Ionian Islands Region, but the main thing we care about is that they will lead the island's youth and its dependents to travel again to Ioannina, as it usually does all the Corfu citizens. So on this point, my question is a specific one. First, do you intend, Minister, to proceed with the relevant approval of this structure? Secondly, what actions do you intend to take to strengthen and substantially support the rehab structures of the island of Corfu and the Ionian Islands region in general? Thank you, Mr President. I reserve my second word, depending on the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Biagi, thank you very much for the question, because you are giving us the opportunity to emphasise once again that policies relating to disarmament are firmly at the forefront of our Government's priorities, and this need we all recognise that it is becoming urgent since the problems that arise and are related to dependency are the wider social issues of particular sensitivity. Our fellow citizens in need of services and care for rehab must have the state at their side, a perpetrator in their efforts to rehabilitate and integrate into the society as a whole. In this context, therefore, the Ministry of Health implements corresponding policies providing similar services. With regard to the General Hospital of Corfu, I would like to point out the following: According to Article 51 of Law 4139, the General Hospital of Corfu "Agia Irini" is an approved body providing services for the treatment of addiction from addictive substances. The approval of the feasibility of joining the “DIAPULOS” unit of the General Hospital of Corfu in a co-financed programme, as indicated in your question, has not been completed and this has the effect of not having the ability to claim European funds. We have already advanced the procedures for granting approval of the plant at a rapid pace from both the hospital and the Ministry's services, so that this effort can be accomplished. So we are clear as to the first part of your question. With regard to your second question, regarding strengthening and substantial support for the rehab structures in Corfu, I should like to say to you: By Ministerial Decision No 61258 of 2017 on ‘Application for the appropriate development of services for the prevention and treatment of dependencies in regional operational programmes’ and our document number D2A 50692 on the duration of co-financing of services for the treatment of dependants from resources from regional operational programmes, as described in other ministerial decisions, Corfu has, in addition to the already national sequential dependency programming actions, the following co-financing operations: First, a multi-powered centre from Corfu-based JET in Corfu, which will provide services of primary care for people with drug addiction problems or other addictive behaviours, such as gambling and the internet, who maintain a high level of functionality. The centres are also aimed at the people of the narrow environment above, and the centres will operate in a network with health structures and social services at both regional and prefecture level. Secondly, a mobile unit from KETHI to Kefalonia and an action radius across the Ionian Islands region. It will support people with problems with the use of addictive substances, gambling or internet that are staying in areas outside the urban fabric, facilitating access to services and referral to more specialised assistance. Thirdly, a programme of anti-drug prevention services by the Agency in partnership with local associations of centres for the prevention of dependency and the promotion of psychosocial health. It should be noted that in order to maintain the implementation and functioning of corresponding actions and programmes in order to maintain the therapeutic effect and to prevent relapse, as well as to remove the social exclusion of former dependent or rehabilitated persons, these actions may be financed for the first twenty-four months or for a period of up to forty-eight months by the end of 2023, in accordance with the possibilities of regional operational programmes. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Allow me to make an important point on this point. As you know, the resources of the OPs concern exclusively operations carried out within their administrative and geographical boundaries. Therefore, your claim for the transfer of resources of the Ionian Islands Region from Epirus to another region is inaccurate. In conclusion, I would like to note that the ETH has been running over the last two years in Corfu City, an advisory station for dependent people and their families. The creation of the multi-powered centre is coming to cover a consistent request from the people who are addressing the station for integrated rehab services at their place of residence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u121	Thank you. Here, Mr. Biagi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u122	Minister, I cannot say that I am pleased with the answer you give me, for the simple reason that you have a problem in front of you about a structure, which together with five other structures in 2019 has been approved. The other structures, by miracle, do not know why, they have received and certified, have also received approval of feasibility. The specific structure we are talking about for Corfu has not received this feasibility approval. You say about your sensitivity that you will move in this direction without giving us a specific timetable. And you must not forget that here we are talking about living organism, we are talking about new souls, which are fighting to get back into life. You leave the time to leave without giving answers when some other approvals of feasibility have given them within a very short period of time. And the question is: Is it about services that are not working or having anything to do with anything else that is behind your mind and you don't have the power to tell us? That is the first question. The second thing that sincerely concerns me and every Corfu - believe it - is that you are coming today and not financially helping a certain structure, which has shown how Corfu society operates and respects it and at the same time joins European programs to build new structures in Corfu, new fourscore to become a new structure in Corfu and not to support the existing in any way we can, so that the result can be better achieved on one side. New 400,000 euros, which this structure cannot claim in the European programmes, and we are talking about "DIAPULS" plus another 400,000 euros that you put in Kefalonia to have a mobile unit, when you do not even have the sensitivity to this island, and because of its size, you have a fixed unit first and then mobile. Let us enter the process of having a reference point for local residents in the region and then a mobile unit, a mobile unit that you do not incorporate into a certain structure in the region, making a comprehensive planning for the issue of dependent people in the region. We see moves, which very voluntarily can be characterized without a specific strategy. And the result is specific, the specific structure of Corfu, the young people of Corfu, also covers people in the prisons of Corfu, Minister. They are solutions and answers that you should have given yesterday, which may have been forgotten by the previous government and which you continue not to give today. You must answer the questions, not try to avoid them, so that you can cast these logics over time. These are issues which we are forced to bring to the attention of the Greek Parliament because of the need for these issues to be supported. Are you on the side of your ministry going to show practically your sensitivity to these people? Will you show practically your recognition to these scientists, who were a point of reference and around them all of Corfu's society built this structure and is it proud of it? Will you finally do it, and when? That's what the Corfiot wants to hear from you today who will hear your answer. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u123	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u124	I will be brief, Mr President. Mr Biagi, I was clear in my history, and the 'DIAPLOS' programme will proceed with the adoption of feasibility, and there will be the will and the willingness to do so very quickly. I told you that we have given priority to both the policies and actions that we are implementing as the Ministry of Health in the field of rehab. We do not leave any of our fellow citizens behind, and we will do our utmost to support these structures which exist and, furthermore, to create any other structure that is needed to ensure that those people in need of the specific health services are available and, of course, to return to the community as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. We enter the third with number 732/25-5-2020 topical question by MP B1' North Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kleonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Discrimination in the provision of pharmaceutical material between insurers and insured diabetics type 1". Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, as you know, I imagine, since 14 October 2019 I have tabled a written question with the exact same subject, but unfortunately no answer has been given to your Ministry and, above all, unfortunately, the problem has not been solved for uninsured diabetics type 1 that exist in our country. So uninsured people continue to trouble themselves. I am not telling you the relevant laws, Article 33 of Law No.4368/16, so that we do not lose time, which provides that insurers and insured persons have constitutional equal rights to care. I can only tell you that since October 3, 2018, the EEAO Board of Directors happily voted for the definitive compensation of the instant glucose monitoring system, which replaces the highly outdated cash technology with an innovative system, which facilitates the daily life of our insulin-dependent diabetics. However, despite this particularly positive move, type 1 diabetics are excluded from this provision and are deducted from the status of highly obsolete sugar meter technology with measuring strips and fingers. So I ask you, Minister, and alive: first and foremost, what action does your Ministry intend to take to finally remove this unconstitutional distinction between uninsured and insured diabetics? And secondly, how long will insurers of type 1 diabetics still continue to be excluded from the advanced and innovative instant monitoring system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. Mr Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Gregoriadis, let me start by saying that I have said so on several occasions and have asked for Parliament's understanding of the written answers to the questions that Members have asked, because it was a huge number of questions and, unfortunately, we were unable to respond to the time allowed. I refer to the question you tabled and did not receive an answer. However, I would like to stress that we are consistently present in the Greek Parliament, which each time Members from all parties ask us topical questions and so we try to ask questions that do not require our presence in the House. As far as the provision of medicated type 1 medicine is concerned, I would like to clarify the following: all insulin-treated patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus and type 1 diabetics using a continuous insulin infusion pump, as well as insulin-treated type 2 diabetics, are fully covered in providing the glucose monitoring system, which replaces outdated cash technology. In very simple terms, all diabetics are fully and free of charge for their health care needs, as provided for in relevant ECHY ministerial decisions and circulars. This, of course, also concerns our insecure fellow diabetics type 1, having the necessary medical certificate. So I think there is no question of their exclusion as mentioned in your question. This is clear to us and there is no question of this. What really deserves to be discussed and investigated, which indeed occurs in your question, is how we will serve diabetics, so that they do not trouble going to hospital pharmacies to obtain the necessary health material that has been prescribed to them by the physician. This issue is being investigated by the relevant services of the Ministry of Health, in order to deal with it in the best way possible, because our aim is to serve every citizen, every patient in his daily contact with the health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u129	Here, Mr Gregoriadis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u130	And yet, Minister, I am sorry to tell you so raw, but our insecure fellow citizens are not covered and I will explain exactly what I mean. I imagine that you are obviously referring to the circular - information about requests for benefits outside the Single Health Services Regulation. I shall therefore read to you that Article 47(4) of the Rules of Procedure expressly states that the EEAS also provides instant sugar measurement equipment, i.e. the measuring machine without pruning fingers and measuring strips, on the one hand, and, at the same time - and this is the big issue with regard to what you have said to me - the materials are only provided by electronic means. You have also suggested it, as referred to in Article 47(1) of the Single Health Provider Regulation. This exclusive electronic prescription automatically excludes uninsured persons as it is closed for them with regard to such consumables. We still have to stress something very specific, that the problem, Minister, - and, indeed, you can resolve it - is the vicious cycle that is produced. Uninsured people are uninsured, because they just can't be easily measurable. In other words, their potential boss says "I don't hire you, I hire someone who either is normally measured because he has the new system" - so he has to be insured - "either someone who has no diabetes at all, because you will have a problem at work, because you will have to lose too much time every time you count with him", with the forgiveness of the expression, "palelithic this way". So they don't hire. From the moment they're not hired, they're unemployed, so they're still uninsured and you understand - because you're a smart man - that it fuels an endless, vicious circle, which is not perfect. You know, the secret is that this vicious circle can really end. It is particularly cynical - not from you, but from the government it is particularly cynical - for such an extremely insignificant financial cost, because of course the social group I am referring to is very small and the cost is really very small, for such a small financial cost, so that type 1 diabetics are excluded from modern technology, and while the state can dramatically improve the lives of some of our suffering people, it does not choose it, but it does not care about them. Really, I'm telling you, not everyone gets it. The EMCDDA is leaving them out. I have read you both the relevant subparagraph and the paragraph and I think it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u131	Thank you again, Mr Grigoriadis, for keeping time. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Gregoriadis, the ECOFIN benefit regulation refers to benefits granted to insured persons in the Agency. There are other provisions, related legislation, ministerial decisions and circulars, which relate to covering our insecure fellow citizens. There is therefore no problem in covering also this uninsured population, as far as the provision of health materials is concerned. In any case, I would like to point out again that our aim is to improve the daily contact of our fellow citizens with the health system and to seek ways so that not only diabetics but also all our fellow citizens who come to health structures can help them better and make their daily lives easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u133	Thank you. The last question will be debated under No 5507/6-4-2020 by MP A' Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "National Health System: Ensure the work of the four thousand OAS contractors in the hospitals of the ESS". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think we should put aside the controversy on this issue because we are political opponents, we are not enemies, we fight for our homeland and we fight for our people, and we do our best, and it is very important that the New Democracy and the Government, which you represent at the Ministry of Health, with all the tone, after this treatment of the COVID -19 pandemic, supported and supported the National Health System, the public health system. This is, in fact, in the crisis of both the citizens and the workers, doctors, nurses, other administrative staff, and it is something that they are fully in agreement, the very least that can be done. I am referring to the four thousand workers from the OAS programmes, Mr Contozamanis, who in the government communications and the Prime Minister and yours, unfortunately, have remained in the backyard of care. I would like to give you the opportunity within this House, to clarify the issue of the permanentization and the process of the permanentisation of the four thousand people, who have been in hospitals since 2016, who have been in the intensive hospitals, who together with all their other colleagues, permanent and subsidiary, the battle against pandemic and who have lifted this great, if you like, obligation, because they are worth it. If, in fact, we believe - we put ourselves in - all, the political system, that we love the ESS, we need proof. Do you love the NSA? Evidence. Do you love his people? Evidence. Do you love the four thousand workers? Proof as we wait for a second wave of pandemics, as we have come out of the memoranda that no longer create this reflection called for by the 2016 political leadership to confront, one to five, that is, five are leaving and one hired and many pensions from the National Health System. At the same time, Paulakis and Xanthos or Xanthos and Paulakis were forced to keep a deceased National Health System upright and achieved it, including subsidiary and contractors and OAED programs, etc. Who are these four thousand? They are the ones who hear us, and they are not the voice you hear, the Triantafylides. They are Georgia, Maria, Marina, Stamatia, Fotini, Helen, Stavros, who have families, who have given the battle, who had the same fear that you and I would not get stuck and need to go to the hospital, etc., and they gave this battle together. I do not want to go into the intestines, who gave the battle in relation to the permanent, the subsidiary and the four thousand. You know that much better than I do. Who, then, are the four thousand twelve months of duration? Their contracts were renewed four times. So the Greek state that has been followed, told them and in 2016 you will stay in both 2017 and 2018 and 2019 and 2020. That's the first. Secondly, their choice was made by an imprecise electronic procedure and the supervision of the AACC. Inspection of the legality of all qualifications was carried out. This is nursing, administrative, scientific, auxiliary, health and other personnel. The state, as I said a moment ago, renewed, recognized their huge experience and expertise. How? Renewing four times their contract and four years have arrived. The European Commission, through the mouth of the Commissioner for Health, Mrs Tisen, on 24-5-2019, urged the Greek state to convert contracts into an indefinite time for workers to health.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Triantafylides, leave something for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u136	I'm hanging up. For this. Minister, for reasons of public interest and public health safety, save time, since workers have already been working for three and a half years, since they have been found to be sufficient, you must take care. They have already been checked because of the specific nature of this specific programme which has been set up. I also have the announcement from the WTO, from their colleagues, which says it is necessary to simulate themselves, that they cover fixed and fixed needs. I'll testify to her in the Minutes. Give us a solution. Perpetuate this world. It's worth it more than that. Do you love the NSA? Do you love his people? Monitor them and let's put our backs together, as we put back as SYRIZA and the whole political system on this matter. Now, Minister, there are no memos. You received 32 billion. Expenditure on health and management of COVID -19 is excluded from debt. We wait, they say the experts, and the second wave of coronary. Do it. They're waiting for you. Do not answer me, Mr Contozamani, answer the four thousand people who are watching you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u137	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Triantafylides, I could respond with only one word to each of the three questions you raise. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Thank you for the question, because you are giving me the opportunity to clarify the position of the Ministry of Health on the subject of contractors. You know that well. Mr Xanthos and Mr Polakis, of course, know it very well. The need and the safeguarding of these positions are, indeed, vital to these health structures, because no one is more and there are huge needs. And that's something we believe and we don't say, to say it, because we've already proved it. We renewed last October the contracts for this programme. We started this as soon as we took office, because this decision had to be taken quickly, because it was not only the Ministry of Health, it was also the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Labour, to which the OAS and the Labour Force Agency belong. We must, however, say a few things here, and we must also make a number of criticisms. We inherited this issue and we have to resolve it, and I think we will resolve it, because it has come to our hands. What did we do? We started discussions with the Ministry of Health and the OAED administration very early. We have ensured the necessary resources for renewal for another year of this programme, and they have remained since February and continue to work on the structures of the National Health System. The question at the moment is what will happen in the next few months, when the extension of their contract is concluded. Because, indeed, this programme does not have any more money, so that we can renew these contracts once again, as we have not been able to renew contracts of similar programmes of the OAS. The answer is not at all simple. I want to be absolutely honest with you people you ask, against all these people who share their agony, meet with them, discuss and recognize their contribution to the National Health System. From the very beginning we have made it clear - and I am making it clear once again - our intention to do everything possible to keep these people in the National Health System so that we can support and strengthen the country's health structures. We therefore seek appropriate solutions to ensure that these people's positions remain in the National Health System. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] The solution that you say there will be additional moleculosis through the ADP once the positions are opened, is one of the alternatives that we are considering. It has also been done in other cases, such as in the previous government's notice of 2K involving ancillary staff and giving increased moleculosis to people who are already serving in the National Health System. We are in discussions with the appropriate ministries in order to ensure the best possible solution. I am sure that in a very short time we will have an answer on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u139	Come on, Mr. Triantafylides. But I'm telling you, you've exhausted the denology. Please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u140	Minister, they really expect all of Greece from you, they deserve it. They fought out of COVID. If the state considered that it did not need them, it would not renew one, two, three times outside of COVID their contract. I know very well that the cost, the 45-50 million that they need, is for health reasons, is out of debt and is not taken into account. I'm speaking on the basis of government communications. Besides, how many millions do human lives cost? I say this, do not unfairly and do not wrong among us the work of the entire Greek people and the Greek Government and the parties and each of you who drew before us and we faithfully followed the expert's orders. This world deserves simulation. They have the necessary evidence, they have the necessary supporting documents, they have the necessary titles, they have the experience. I should like to take the unfavourable development if you would like: say that tomorrow Contozamanis or Kilias, or whoever is from that government, will take the responsibility of telling them that they will stop their contract and be deprived of the National Health System of four thousand workers? Who will assume this political responsibility, practice, operational responsibility? Because with an amendment to this particular bill, a series, Mr Contozamanis, we are also putting it and your own government is credited. Forget SYRIZA. Forget the parties. Look at them one by one. I will tell you their names: Georgia, Marina, Maria, Stamatia, Fotini, Eleni and Stavros and behind these families. Because every day - you know, I know, and I know, we were calling and talking - they make their anxiety, their concern. Do it and we'll be sick. Like so far Paulakis and Xanthos and SYRIZA and all parties put back on, we'll put them now, because we need them, Mr. Kontozamanis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u141	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u142	Say it, not to me. Look at the camera of Parliament's channel and tell them: 'We'll go together'. As we walked together in the first wave, we will face together the second and third waves, because we want to support the National Health System and the National Health System are its people. It's not paperwork, it's not blooming, it's not ministerial decisions, it's not PPP. They're his people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u143	He will study it, Mr. Triantafylides, the Minister. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Triantafylides, I was clear in my prototype. These people are needed in the National Health System. We managed their problem when we took over. We solved it for as long as we could. We'll try to do everything possible. There are rules, legislation in this country that we must follow in order to find the best possible solution. And say something? We're fighting. You could have started, the previous government, a process to resolve the issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u145	You do it. Let us go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u146	Please don't interrupt, Mr. Triantafylides, so we can move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u147	I don't blame you, but outside the dance a lot of songs can be said. We are trying to manage this situation and give a solution. Yes, it is very easy to say 'take them', 'take one', 'take one', but there are rules, conditions, legislation and we need to ensure the positions of these people as long as they remain in the National Health System and find the best possible solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u148	As long as they stay?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u149	As soon as their contract expires. I was clear. Needs are huge. No one's left over from the National Health System. We need them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u150	Are you looking at solutions to stay?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u151	Now, why are you dialogue? The Minister has heard it and will look into it. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u152	I said it in my prototype. I told you: 'Yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', to the questions you ask me. I was clear. Of course we want them. Of course, we are working in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u153	That is why there is also a constitutional issue. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been concluded here. We will have a short break for a health check in the Chamber, and we will immediately enter the legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A single debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft laws of the Ministry of Health: 'Structuring (a) of 13.4.2020 PIP 'Measures to address the continuing consequences of the COVID -19 pandemic and other urgent provisions' (A' 84) and (b) of 1.5.2020 PIP 'Read further measures to address the continuing consequences of the COVID -19 pandemic and the return to social and economic normality' (A '90) and other provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 21 May 2020 to discuss the draft law at a meeting organized and uniform in principle, on articles and amendments. The debate on the bill will take place by the rapporteurs and specialist speakers for 15 minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives for twelve minutes - each one being understood - the speakers on the list for seven minutes each and the Minister responsible for eighteen minutes, pursuant to Rules 64, 97, 98 and 107 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. As regards the speakers, I propose that the parties be represented by analogy of their parliamentary power with a circle of forty Members of the House as follows: twenty-two Members from New Democracy, twelve Members from SYRIZA, three MPs from the Change Movement, two Members from the Communist Party of Greece and one MEP from the Greek Solution and the MERA25 respectively. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u155	The House has agreed. I will give the floor to the rapporteur of the New Democracy Mr Spyros Spiritual for 15 minutes. I would also ask the rapporteurs to agree, because there is an urgent problem with the Secretary-General, Mr Georgantas, at some point to give him the floor in the intervening period to develop two articles of an act of legislative substance in order to be able to leave. I imagine the rapporteurs won't object. As far as I can see, there's no objection. Therefore, they agree. At some point, the reason will be given. As we have said before, we shall also keep time for exactly what we have said. I would ask that we all respect him, the Members of Parliament, the rapporteurs and speakers, and the ministers, in view of the delay in parliamentary scrutiny. Thank you for your understanding. Mr. Spiritual, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in this draft law of the Ministry of Health the last two legislative acts are ratified, the first of 13 April 2020 with measures to address the continuing consequences of the COVID pandemic -19 and other urgent provisions and the second with effect from 1 May 2020 with further measures to address the continuing consequences of the COVID pandemic -19 and the return to social and economic normality and other provisions. The coronary pandemic was a global catastrophe. The negative effects on the economy were inevitable. Paradoxically proof of the examples of other countries, such as Sweden, which have left their economies open, resulting in thousands of dead and economic catastrophes depending on the countries that went to Lockdown. The government with determination and sense of responsibility took the absolutely right steps to protect health and took timely measures to support the economy. Responding to the crisis requires a continuous and ongoing step forward - a step depending on developments, such as this bill, but also other bills that will come soon. Yesterday, a series of bills were discussed at the Ministerial Council, which demonstrate that the government, even in the midst of the coronary pandemic, is fully prepared and normally continues its reform work. The government is moving forward in the implementation and completion of the plan to overcome the health crisis and trigger the dynamic relaunch of the economy. We have earned, as I said in committee, the prestige and credibility that we have lost as a country. We strongly challenged the support that we were given, and we did so. With our attitude we have earned our place at the decision-making table in the European Community. The financing of Greece with EUR 32 billion, EUR 22 billion in direct grants and EUR 9.5 billion in loan on favourable terms, according to the Commission's original proposal for the Recovery Fund, is a result of the difficult and productive work that the Government has done at European level. It moves much further into the logic of subsidies and less in the logic of loans, which has been a central demand since the beginning. As the Prime Minister said, the European Commission's proposal for the Recovery Fund of a total of 750 billion is a brave step that strengthens solidarity, cohesion and convergence in Europe. In view of the moves made by the European Central Bank, everything shows a different, more bold European policy. The committee has set the bar high. The Council must do the same now. It is time for Europe to take advantage of the position it deserves in the world frame. The first two articles, therefore, of this draft law ratify the last two legislative acts with urgent measures to deal with the horn pandemic, support for enterprises, workers and households, and measures to gradually restore to normal economic and social activity. I will not tire you with the individual articles of the two acts of legislation, which have already been implemented since their adoption. I am going to go through the other provisions introduced by this bill, which relate, on the one hand, to arrangements which extend the duration of support measures and introduce conditions for the gradual reintroduction to normality and, on the other, to new provisions for the resolution of the Ministries' issues. In the health sector, in this bill, we have the practical implementation of the government's commitment to substantial reinforcement of the National Health System, which despite maliciousness has been a key factor in the successful management of pandemic. Under Articles 33 and 35 of the bill, the ESS is supported by the setting up of a thousand eight hundred medical and nursing posts for new ICUs created with donations, in the context of the pandemic, as well as a hundred and seventy new posts in the ESS hospitals in the three Samos, Chios and Mytilini islands, while two thousand interrupted 50 posts of qualified nurses with emphasis for the next two years on intensive nursing and community nursing public health. As the Prime Minister said, we are building a new ERC. In addition, Article 27 provides for exceptional aid to the staff of the ICM, MFF and COVID from the public benefit Foundation ‘Stavros Niarchos’. It is a minimum sign of recognition of the enormous effort and of the people who have been on the frontline of the pandemic and to whom we owe the greatest as a society for professionalism, self-determination and dedication to their duty. On this occasion I would like to ask the Minister to place the institution with the extension of this exceptional grant to other categories of staff, such as the staff of the EAW who have really contributed to the effort to treat citizens in the extremely difficult circumstances. With regard to other provisions, Articles 3 to 8 include provisions of the Ministry of Finance to extend favourable arrangements such as a discount on tax debts and a reduction in the rent. With the amendment of the Ministry of Finance introducing the new support package announced by the government, this measure is extended for the next few months, while support measures are being taken for the leasers, who have actually set back by covering a percentage of the losses by the State. In Article 7 of the Bill, the pendingness of the benefit for dangerous and unhealthy work for ODA workers shall be resolved, in terms of legality, transparency, proportionality and on the basis of their work and the qualifications justifying payment. I propose here you may also consider adding some new specialties and perhaps redistributing some categories on the basis of the essential and not typical risk of the position, as well as looking at the question of the allowances already paid, since it is not the responsibility of the ODA's employees for the outstanding situation. Part II, Articles 12 to 14, includes arrangements of the Ministry of the Interior on matters relating to the orderly functioning of the Local Government, in particular as regards the update of the framework for the conclusion of programming contracts and the needs arising from the Cornwall. In Part C, with provisions of the Ministry of Labour, Articles 15 to 18, we have extensions of favourable arrangements within the framework of support for self-employed and freelance professionals, as well as the introduction of teleconferences as a means of holding general meetings of trade unions. Today, an amendment was tabled by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on the 'Cooperation to support employment' mechanism. The adverse effects of the pandemic have clearly had a negative impact on the economic activity of the undertakings, mainly at the level of full-time workers. Enterprises, unfortunately, lead to a reduction in working hours, with a corresponding reduction in wages for workers. The State, in the view of the need to support full-time jobs in this difficult situation, stands as good as possible, with the maximum possible replacement of the loss of workers' incomes. As described in the bill on coverage, 50% will be paid by the employer and 60% by the State, while all the contributions will be paid by the employer. In Part IV, we have other provisions of the expedient Ministry of Health, such as the lifting of wage inequality for doctors at the Thera Hospital, provisions for the smooth functioning of the services and agencies of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health, especially because of the pandemic to exempt from the agricultural sector, with the aim of reinforcing the HS and others. An important point is Article 22, which regulates the payment of the fact-finding newspapers that have been carried out in excess of the law for the entire period of the pandemic. With Article 33, as I mentioned at the outset, a total of a thousand eight hundred additional posts of doctors and nurses are being set up to cover the MSF created in the context of donations to the ESS. While Article 35 introduces an additional hundred and seventy-three positions of qualified ESS doctors, nurses and other staff in hospitals of the three Mytilini, Samos and Chios Islands, to identify the increased needs due to the coronary pandemic, migratory flows and tourist movement. We're going to Part E with provisions of the Department of Digital Governance. I would like to refer again to Article 37, which provides for the granting of budget discharges and certificates via the gov.gr portal and the JEPs. Acceleration of the digital reform of the public administration that facilitates ordinary citizens and dismantles public services is another great resource for the successful management of the pandemic, which must remain and be extended. In Part F, under the provisions of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, Articles 39 and 40 provide for the additional grant of ancestors and commercial air services for months of the flight ban. For the sake of consistency of the prevailing and for reasons of border presence and connectivity of the island and access to the health infrastructure, certain flights had to be made. Part G, Articles 41 to 43, contains provisions of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs relating to the functioning of the crisis boards, transfers and the framework for contracts in the field of security. Article 44 of the Ministry of Education provides for a reduction in the period of notice of the Republican elections due to the overthrow of the programming carried out by the pandemic. Article 45 of the Ministry of the Environment provides for the possibility of converging objection committees on property matters through teleconferencing conferences to modernise and accelerate the whole process. Finally, Articles 46 to 49 have been incorporated into the bill amendment of the Ministry of Justice which regulates the question of the smooth reopening of the courts and prosecutors of the country with a view to ensuring the rights of the parties, minimising the costs of the cancellation of proceedings and avoiding co-decision. Ladies and gentlemen, after two and a half months, we are now ready to proceed to the next phase. The truth is that we are now experiencing the unavoidable economic consequences and the government quickly reflexes the support of the affected and the economy. It continues rapidly its reform work and feeds on solid bases the next day. Awesome is the education we received during the difficult management of the unprecedented crisis and the deposit that she left us: One, extremely powerful National Health System, double beds in intensive care units and MAFs, more medical and nursing staff, advanced digital governance system friendly to ordinary citizens, educational staff and students of all ages familiar with distance learning. However, we must also emphasise the moral and economic reward that we have received from our European partners. Greece is now taking the lead as the successful country in managing the crisis that has passed the planet. The significant financial assistance we have provided from Europe will be an important tool for the development and recovery of our country. It is a question of managing it with a plan and wisdom, as the Prime Minister pointed out, with a view to a new development model. So it is up to us to turn this crisis into an opportunity. So I invite you all to support with your vote this bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u157	Mr Colleague, thank you very much, especially for keeping time. I imagine that this will be an example for all my fellow Members. Now Mr Papachristopoulos Athanasios, rapporteur for the Civic Opposition, SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, thank you. I'll start because I don't think we should lose the forest...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Papachristopoulos, will you speak from your position?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u160	This way, yes. Is there a problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u161	There isn't. It is customary for the rapporteurs to speak from the Step. After choosing from your position...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u162	Enemy of a coronary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u163	Just if you don't have a problem, talk up, to apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u164	No problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u165	I would remind you that this is only the case in the committees. Of course, the opposite can be allowed, if there is any reason. I just asked you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u166	You're right. I got carried away because in the committees we were talking about sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u167	I'm just asking if you have a problem. Don't take it personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u168	Respectful. No, no problem. I'm fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u169	We're starting now and you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u170	Thank you. I want to start by thinking that we are not processors here, but we are representatives of Greek society. I would therefore like to remind you that the patriarch of neoliberalism, markets and capital, of the fact that 'all markets regulate', Milton Friedman in a last interview before we were left with time, admitted that he was wrong, admitted that he was wrong, and that he was wrong, and that he should be the concept of the social state and the state in general, which had fought so much, to see it again. I want to begin with a statement by the Greek Prime Minister at the ICU in 2017. Kyriakos Mitsotakis said: "We believe in the power of the private economy" and he concluded: "The aim is to free the unstable forces of society from the blockages of stateism." I say this again: 'The aim is to free the unstable forces of society from the blockages of state'! Here I would like to say an example that I can prove. In these difficult times the planet and our country have passed, the private sector has been absent, and I will give an example. My personal friend, who doesn't even belong to the party I am, those days he went to one of the very well-established private centers, because he had a lot of fever, coughing, etc. He was examined down by a young doctor and called up the address and said to them: "Children, there's a great chance I have a coronary." He did, and went well later. The private hospital's answer was 'better go to Salvation', so that the private center would not be discredited with such bad circumstances. You will tell me "Is everything like this?" Oh, no. I say it as an extreme example, to remind you that many stereotypes collapsed, fell down these two months. Some people figured it out, some show that they understood it, I don't know what else might happen. However, it is certain that the system kept it up, humble people, doctors, nurses, cleaners, delinquents, supermarkets with masks, humble people with hunger wages. And the applause is fine, every night we went out and applause the heroes, but in practice what do we do? I shall raise a point here which I did not raise and which concerns WTO, which does not belong to us. Remember that for these people who put their heads on the dorva for two and a half months, who couldn't embrace their daughters, their children, their parents, there are heavy and unhealthy. I would like an answer from the Minister responsible. It's the least. Leave the rest. Good talk, there's a lot of talk. But let's see what we're doing in practice. I would like to say this here: I am one of those who, until a misunderstanding, and other colleagues, have not criticised for two months, but we have only made proposals. I'm to those who, really, until you're misunderstood, I didn't make any criticism. Guys, the MATs can make them like this: Where you have respirators you can do MATs. Where you have compressed air, you can do ME. Do not weaken health centers and TOMY, because they will need us. Incentive the doctors you hire so that they can be permanently placed later. I didn't even make a sign of criticism until you were misunderstood. I am telling you this because, indeed, it was a difficult situation not only for the country but for the whole planet. It was really inappropriate at that time for us to sit and say one's long and short. This, however, is one issue and another issue is now. First of all, without misery, I would like to say what it sounds like for a package of around EUR 740 billion, which is really good and can strengthen the Greek economy with no loans - the loans are about EUR 9.5 billion, I leave them - but with EUR 22 billion. It is a huge amount, we are pleased about that, we consider it to be a good thing. But I would like you to allow me to make an analysis here and say: because nothing today was as it was yesterday - that is the opinion - to throw it away - I believe that Germany, which is the body of the Eurozone and the United Europe, understands that if the countries of the south are not supported, that is, Spain, Italy and, above all, the ones who drew the passions to get out of bankruptcy, the European Union is breaking up and dismantling the European Union means weakening Germany. I would nevertheless say that the German Government is well-advanced. We saw the turn Merkel and McCron were turning, and we salute her, and we're not miserable about it at all. I say that because some people triumph, etc. No objections! It is indeed a positive step and we must make the best use of it. Of course, I'm not hiding to you that it's good to see how we're going to spend all eight months until this starts, because you know, the duration of what's going to happen is seven years, if it happens. I think it's going to happen. Getting out of there, we're coming to ours today. As much as we have a good intention, Mr President and Minister, every day we find something in these two MDGs and other provisions. As good as we have - and we have - we find incredible things. I say here, let's swallow a few things, say they didn't happen, or they're little mistakes. But is that so? I'm sorry, but I think I don't, and I'm telling you this way a few things to get in touch with. For example, the three-month extension of the first residence, which could go by the end of the year, is considered to be a mistake. Let's take it. That does not mean that we will vote for it, but we can say 'everything'. Let us accept the gift you paid to canalarchs, the EUR 11 million, after EUR 9 million. We then had DIGEA. We'll swallow that, too. Let's just swallow that a D.C.'s been taking sanitary material twice as much as other D.C.s. We should swallow that, too. However, if we are looking for it every day, we see that it is not one, it is not only the gifts in private hospitals - I told you how they worked, they were still in this case - it is not just Mr Brutsi's vouchers, it is not just the dozens of mistakes, in my opinion, dealing with the worst possible way of a pandemic, but it is things that all SYRIZA Members have actually had to ask us to ask how much direct commissions the government has made, on the occasion of pandemic and whether it should have done them on the grounds of pandemic. I would like to point out here, however, that I have the time by 15 minutes - two such cases. A super patriot, a lady who I think is appointed to the Ministry of Public Order, has been able to become acquainted with her krone about - within introductory - 'patriotism'. This lady made direct assignments to two companies. You'll tell me, is this so important? I'll answer what it is. It's not so much 736 grand. One of these two companies changed its statute one day before she got the job. The other company wasn't founded three days ago. Mrs Nicholas - I do not know how she feels, because she was now sure that the government would allow her, as Mrs Kerameau has just cleared with the Big Brother, as Mr Brutsis has authorized, as Mr Augias and many others have been, but they are still ministers or officials of this government. So this lady did not feel the need to say anything about these two strange assignments, which cost Greek citizens EUR 736,000. It's one of the things that our question contains. I would, however, like to stop in another incredible alchemy, which has no precedent, because at high institutional level we see a whole government costing bankers who have been illegal! I'm explaining. I could tell you a date. It reminds me on November 18, 2019, the self-addressed prosecution of a banker, who doesn't do his job well and did it under insult. We reacted then. Nobody heard us. Until then, the banker's prosecution was automatically ordered. We're talking about banks operating billions. We're talking about banks, where we know that red loans, I'm talking to some banks, over 4% have reached it over 50%. We're talking about public money, and we're talking about a process that went bankrupt. So what are you doing? We're out of range. I'm telling you, everything else we can swallow. But that's why you tell me. We want an answer from the Minister responsible. I would like to read an amendment to you today. An act of law has been published, the ratification of which is being called for today, and today we are discussing this ratification. Article 46 of the first GPSD: ‘The suspension granted in accordance with the above and is considered not to take precedence over the deadline for declarations of wishing to make progress of criminal proceedings’. At first sight, whoever doesn't know things can say: okay and what is that? It's nothing. I would like to remind you that at the time a four-month extension had been granted for people who had not yet been voted on, they had not yet entered into what happened, who abolished the self-determination at the time, i.e. the bank itself should apply and chase someone. So this four-month extension, which expired some days later, has taken care of this government with today's ratification - we have to vote for this ratification, it has already done so - not to apologise the bankers who did not do their job well. Some banks - I do not want to say an example at the moment, I expect an answer from Mr Stakoura - before the vote on the own-initiative report and the insult, had already taken place and some judges, some prosecutors did their job. So you took care, with a special amendment from you - I read about what he says - that banks have no obligation today, and that they want to go after a banker who did not do his job well. Those who do not want to have a terrible pretext, according to what the legislator says: 'Children, we cannot do anything, it is legislation that is so'. If that's not a challenge, I want you to tell me what it is. I can assure you, Mr Stakoura, that we are waiting for an answer to this PPP, which is Article 46, which we are now voting on. You will respond to your time and we will listen very carefully, because with the trick you have done in something unequivocally, you are in breach of basic rules of law science. The four-month period hadn't expired. You've done a trick to finish this earlier and then say in your explanatory statement incredible things that don't even fit into a new year's law school. You want me to read to you what he says, how do you justify this MDG? They are against the legal system of the country and there is not even a legal person to justify this argument by the legislator. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I don't want to take any more time. I am consistent, Mr President. I just want to say this: today, in my opinion, is a historic day, because fourteen ministries are confusing and too many sectoral ministers. It's infinite. It's not one or two. I do not hide from you that these pearls, which we found, force us to ask this question, the Secretary of Parliament, Olga Gerovasili and almost all of the Members. We want to know if, through a crisis, you have made sure to do - I am sorry for the expression - jobs that you should not do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u171	The Foreign Minister, Mr Georgiodakis, has the floor. I have informed you at the beginning of the meeting that Mr Georgiodas will develop two articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank my colleagues too. There are two articles from the Ministry of Digital Governance, which you are now calling on to vote for, Article 36 and Article 37. As the Ministry has not been heard in committee, I would like to develop Article 37, which is, in fact, a major part of the public's trade with the public. In particular, Article 37 provides that ‘gov.gr’ may now be provided with excerpts of terminating acts and budget certificates for the first time from the single digital portal of the public’. The citizen will now be able to issue excerpts from his home computer or from his mobile phone, entering that portal, and to issue bills of office, as well as certificates of a poll with the same evidence force, which he has had to go to the appropriate office to issue. This is all done through the civic data and it is another result of interoperability, which we are trying at all times to promote to our Ministry, because our goal is one: to avoid, as far as possible, the natural presence of the citizen in public guises, to improve his everyday life and to gain in this way the time needed to deal with his other affairs. In order to understand the size of our specific initiative, I will say this: Out of about eight and a half million administrative procedures, which the country's JEPs carry out each year, with the exception of statements of genuine signature or other information they give, the five hundred thousand concern these certificates, namely birth permits, matrimonial documents and death permits. These three documents will now be published by the citizen himself either by his own home or by going to the JEPs, whoever does not have the digital skills, but who will receive the document he requires online, that is, at the same time he will be in his possession and at the same time. I think we are constantly proving that the country's digital transformation really is a national bet, which we are able to achieve. It is a necessity that emerged through the crisis of the coronary pandemic, but it is also a necessity, which must accompany every effort of the country for its economic recovery. I would ask you to vote in favour of this particular provision, which goes on to many others. There'll be more to follow. Aiming all this is one: the citizen is served by the state, as directly and without his own suffering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr Georgioda, for keeping time. They have said that the political leaders will speak and go ahead, as you know. After the special speakers, Mr. Koutsoubas, Mr. Velopoulos, Mr. Varoufakis, will speak after Mr. Staikouras. The reason is the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Poulas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that pandemic created unprecedented conditions at world level. In our country we have managed to contain the figures and prove capable of managing this serious crisis. During the entire period of the Change Movement the speech was wise, nationally beneficial and serious, despite its systematic isolation from the media. We have come to the front many times, especially in the health and the economy, and we have been entitled to so many, when the government adopted our proposals, even lately. It is true that the health crisis has been successfully addressed in its first phase, but without prejudicing an equally successful management of a second wave. What concerns us, however, is the management of the economic crisis that follows. In a fragile economy, such as the Greek one, we must not go through a new normality, which will be barbaric for many, workers, self-employed, unemployed and retired, in other words, to a new normality for the few, the excellence and the party chosen. Sadly, with this huge bill you bring to the vote you give food to our fears, doubts and questions. Apart from the tactics of poor legislation, which you are adopting once again, the draft law in fact contains, on the one hand, hesitantly, appallingly and inadequately in the economic sector and on the other, arrangements and arrangements, which are very far from the characteristics of the credible government, which you are trying to project. The Greek society expected the launch of the new phase of a gradual resumption of social and economic life to be accompanied by fair measures that would strengthen the sense of security and confidence in the institutions. But you have achieved the impossible, on the one hand, for the Prime Minister to promise and on the other day for his ministers to disprove him, giving the impression that something is not going well in the final state, which you have once again set up with a number of posters. On the substance, it turns out that you do not have any plan at all to relaunch the economy. Go blindly, you are inappropriate to take elementary financial support measures for those affected. You have allegedly opened the courts, but which, in fact, only carry out urgent acts. Public services are down to half-staffed. Merchants grow. Self-employed and freelance professionals are at an economic risk. Transport has been frozen, imports and exports have been the same. To date no care has been shown for the productive part of the economy. Nor are you in a clear position to reduce the rent. You leave to a future NSA regulation, creating market insecurity and more problems than the pandemic caused. For the real support of businesses, self-employed persons and tax and social security benefits you have shown no welfare. Everything is transferred to a CSA, which will be issued in a vague, unknown and blurred future. But the economy does not work that way, with the brilliance it characterizes you. It wants words and decisions that are specific and targeted. It wants positions and proposals and not stolen slogans and loan ministers from the area of social democracy. Your Government systematically makes trade of hope. He promises everyone everything and presents poor results as an important achievement. Of course, the previous SYRIZA government had become accustomed to low government flights and even lower expectations. However, the citizens are now tired of lost opportunities and resentment. Lost chance is so-called digital reconstruction. While countries with a lower level of living and GDP than ours are making stable technological and digital leaps, we are mutually refreshed with nothing and sufficient to do so. The work of the Ministry of Digital Reconstruction is very poor, where it is required to lead and facilitate the functioning of the public sector, distance learning, the functioning of the courts, the service of citizens in public services. The electronic platforms and tools are there. What is missing is the directions, rules and methods for their implementation. The Department of Digital Reconstruction also gets under the base here. In the health sector, you are following a completely wrong practice. You manage donations in a way that raises serious questions about where the money will be deposited. You have yet to talk about primary health care, which is the front of the country's health shield, especially in our region and islands. While the region has been filled with open hosting structures for migrants and at the same time the country opens up to tourism, you are not taking care of the necessary health protection for these areas. At the same time, pay the doctors and nurses of the ESY crumbs. Instead of institutionalising their integration into heavy and unhealthy, despite the fact that the Change Movement has brought the relevant amendment to the House three times, you manage health on communal terms, at times leaving your supposed plans to be leaking into your friendly press, but the months go by and we do not see. Minister, the ESS is firmly structured. There is no need for magical solutions and interesting innovations. He needs regulation, he needs funding, he needs staff. He wants worthy governors, selected on merital criteria. He wants institutions and control by the state. The PPPs and indirect privatisation of public hospitals are not pioneering, it is backwards. Now, with the donations and funds that are expected to invade the European Union, you have absolutely no excuse to abandon the ESS in the hands of individuals or to invoke the crisis of its underfunding. However, you are still staying in words and not in actions. For the regeneration of the ESS, you are extremely poor. Uniquely stable in your Government is your attitude to labour issues. In this area, you are very comfortable and easy to adopt rotating work, the suspension of contracts, the partial replacement of the wage lost to 60%, the teleworking and the facilitation of redundancies. Instead of subsidising the job, you encourage the constant violation of labour rights, insecurity and the work hostage. Last fashion, on the pretext of pandemic, is the adoption of teleworking with the compulsory availability of workers without hours, without a rule and without overtime payments. At the same time that there is no real provision for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, the scientist, the self-employed, the worker, the auctions are entering and the banks are staying in the unavoidable state, while a new generation of debtd coronary is being created. In our calls for the law to be replaced by Statakis by a new law for the bankruptcy of natural persons in the spirit of the Katseli Act, you are deaf. Finally, with a government of New Democracy, workers and middle-class permanently pay the marble of the economy. Also stable is your position with regard to transparency. By way of derogation from the provisions of public contracts, in accordance with the pretext of the necessary supplies of sanitary material. As regards the management of donations to support the ESS, which exceed EUR 89 million, in every bill you also adopt a new scheme instead of accepting our own proposal for a transparent and permanent donation management mechanism now and in the future. As far as the administrations of hospitals supplied at the pandemic principle are concerned, health material, and even at excessive prices, again by way of derogation from the existing provisions, will be forgiven. No reason to check, to assess the administrations of hospitals, as you advertised, when you placed your adequacy in these positions. Bypassing the EOT and obliging OTAs and Ministries to sign direct awards with MARKETING GREECE which was selected in an absolutely opaque and provocative manner. At the same time, you are enthusiastic about the so-called control by the Court of Auditors of these contracts, when you are very careful to formulate the relevant provision so that it never happens. Make arrangements, give extensions to boards at dock and subscribe commercial airline services. Instruct the donor managers of hospitals to select the coordinators of units and departments, of which, in many cases, depends on their proper functioning, without specific and clear selection criteria and evaluation process. You manage the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation to assist the employees in the quarantine period, in a completely diagnosed manner and clipboard, giving the right to hospital administrations to place and extract workers from the lists to the Foundation, at best. At the same time, TEN and EKAV workers, who have faced the first cases with COVID-19 and, some of them, have suffered, are left out of hand. All of this creates shadows of diabeticness, opacity, the promotion of virtues and diabetics and they certainly do not match the profile of seriousness and credibility that you want to project. In the same context, the management of tourism is the responsibility of the tourism sector. Apart from moving blindly and without at the same time shielding our islands, you proceed to the opening of tourism without any health standard. From this careful crisis management model, which you adopted at the outset, we are now suddenly going to another end, the Swedish model, to the logic of reducing the recession. As you have absolutely no strategy in tourism, many large hotels and accommodations are not going to open. At the same time, there is no talk of the financing of social tourism programmes, of strengthening domestic tourism, which could support small and medium-sized tourist enterprises in the region. Everything works without a plan and no program. At the same time and in order to cover the lack of government planning, you leave hopes for the distribution of 32 billion that our country expects to receive from the European Commission's Recovery Fund. It concerns 22.5 billion, which is estimated to be granted in the form of grants and 9.5 billion in the form of loans in favour of our country. A few of these will strengthen the Greek economy this year, as the country's submission of a national recovery plan must be preceded, based on specific investment and reform proposals, which will also constitute eligible costs. If the establishment of the fund is finally approved, there will indeed be too much money. But where are these going to go? Who's going to amplify? The self-employed, who you've been mocking for three months? The Greek companies that owe the banks, which you do not touch at all? The workers you are placing in contract suspension and rotating? The focus, which instead of a generous reduction in VAT and a strengthening of business liquidity, gets a reduction in coffee and tonics? How can citizens trust you that you will draw up a meticulous and targeted national recovery plan for the national economy? [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] The national recovery plan, which you will have to draw up to bring to the country, even part of this money, is a great national challenge. This mechanism of financial support - which unfortunately did not exist in 2010, which we entered the national adventure of the memoranda - is capable of transforming the country. To transform our development model. To finance Greek enterprises and regenerate industrial production in the country. Refresh the ESS. To promote research and technology. Reconstruct the country digitally. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In this design, which is a national bet and ahead of the 2021 anniversary, all parties, in a spirit of harmony, cooperation and national consensus, must contribute. We see it as a matter of course a patriotic duty to participate in this exercise, at the very time when the Prime Minister himself has declared himself willing to adopt positive proposals from wherever they come from, unless at times your modest statements are only for communication tricks. Ladies and gentlemen, we are transferring you the anxiety of the citizens. What they fear is that the health crisis will turn into an economic crisis, which will leave us new debts, new loans, new poverty, that the money that is expected to be invaded in the country will take the lion's share, that the National Health System will not really be strengthened, but that the logic of ballasts and the scoring of money will be adopted to the good and the “days” with communication games. With the media cups and virtual reality the challenges are not addressed. So we expect your plan to reconstruct the country now so that we do not lose another golden opportunity. Mr President, we are voting against the bill in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u175	Before giving the floor to the next special speaker, I would like to make a statement. It is announced to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case, on 28-5-2020, for criminal proceedings concerning the Deputy State Secretary of Culture and Sports Mr George Vasilei and the Deputy Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information Mr Nikolaos Papapas. After the decontamination has been completed, we will give the floor to the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Legislative acts of 13 April and 1 May 2020 with one hundred and twenty articles shall be discussed singlely in two articles respectively. The bill still has 50 articles in the other provisions and 35 other ministerial amendments. It's a total of 205 articles at a meeting. Obviously, we cannot talk about each article separately. But we have to make it clear that if the vote on the articles was separately, we could vote on what improves the situation in public health, what gives workers and self-employed workers a little something. Gentlemen of the Government, legislative acts do not contain measures to deal with the pandemic, but long-term plans that set the conditions for the re-payment of the new crisis, the working class, the self-employed, the populace. You're rejoicing for the management of the pandemic. You came out because the people first and foremost took their responsibility, disciplining the recommendations of the Scientific Committee. But the collective responsibility of the civil state and the governments is the one that has closed us into quarantine, because the state has led the public health system to this situation. With your policy it was merged, privatized, left with a minimum of medical and health personnel, the private sector was glossed, not only did it not participate in the war with the "invisible enemy", as you say, but as young black marketers they took advantage of the situation, gaining even more. Instead of diagnosing them, you've given them more than 30 million grants. Increase the amount for ICUs, which, allegedly, offered the public health system, by 100%, from EUR 800 to EUR 1,600 per day. You gave them the tests. You refused to check them. When the people expressed their displeasure, you protected them, "washed" by highlighting their alleged sensations, corporate social responsibility, as you described the so-called donations, which I am passing away, are a small part of the great theft of workers and the people. The time, therefore, given by the people at home, has not been used to address the acute health problems, in order to meet the needs of addressing other diseases, much more in a new wave of pandemic. This is not why the resources were not available. On the contrary, because you want to create the conditions for open streets of capital profitability, which invest in health with public-private partnerships, as the Prime Minister said the day before yesterday. As we have shown in the committees, we will also try to do in plenary: the government, together with the quarantine, put the guillotine in front of it to break wages. To generalize elastic work. To overthrow more working rights. To establish new forms of worker exploitation. Load the health crisis to the working people's families. Preparing, putting the ingredients in the recipe, which they gave her, the BSE, the shipowners, the bankers, the others, to give them everything they can to ensure their interests. They are already giving their credit for the implementation of the new recipe, because the flavors for their palate were sweet, but it was a pharmacopoeia, poison - and - for the working people's families. The large business groups came out with the fewest losses from Lockdown. The account was sent to the working class and the popular layers. From the end of February, on the occasion of dealing with the pandemic, with nine legislative acts and more than three hundred ministerial decisions and circulars you met the demands of business groups. You gave up new weapons to take off the farm. You're lying that the measures are temporary. You have said the same thing about the memorial measures which have led to unemployment, poverty and the despair of a large majority of the people. Your prescription hasn't changed, it's the same. None of the new measures will be temporary. Along with the memorial measures, they satisfy the needs of capital, aggravate the life of the working people's family. You were identified, New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK - KINAL with the BSE and SETE line and other employers' organisations for the measures. You all reiterate their position that we should not go back to the pathogens of the past, that is, the rights of workers. They now state that the new measures must be integrated into a new employment policy framework, with the immediate adoption of a preventive, flexible and integrated employment strategy. You're all identified. Do you have any other position? We don't expect an answer. You will not give it, because you will do what the business groups are attacking, as you are doing, as a government of all of you, when the PASOK or the New Democracy or SYRIZA and, when necessary, all of you together. Their claims are law, and you confirm this by law. What do they require, apart from the above payroll? Elastic work, measures to relaunch the economy by strengthening the liquidity of enterprises. They want warm money. Who's gonna pay for it? The workers, the populace, who are struggling to get through, to pay the exact bills, the unbearable taxes, with income falling over 50%. And that's all your work! Apart from the privileges, tax exemptions, tax exemptions, the ESRB, the 'SURE' programme with the cooperation, as has been said today, in support of the programmes for reducing working hours, you continue with the measures of EUR 24 billion to relaunch the economy, EUR 32 billion, which will be drawn from the recovery fund decided by the Commission, which will shake the big capital and throw the hood and the bill to the people. On the one hand, the euro flows abundantly to the few who have a great deal on the other, and on the other hand, you call on the people to live with 400 and 500 euros. You have the courage, after you've reached the bottom, to tell them to trust you and discipline them! Thousands of unemployed were found without any support, not even with this low allowance. A large number of people live by suspension of the contract of employment, a measure to prevent dispersal, but it seems that the business groups want it to be permanent in order to implement it combined with rotating work, reduced hours and to reduce workers' wages to the lowest levels, with hours to be tailored to production needs. With teleworking, the employer requires workers to make available their entire day-to-day work and work free of charge. All of this is included in legislative acts, as well as the freezing of the minimum wage for 2020. You allow the company to employ the overtime worker without approval and to have exhausted the overtime limits. You are able to transfer to companies in the group. Remove the ban on Sundays and holidays. Expand the measure with the amendment, which you have brought to Spata for the discounting village, because it is, he says, a tourist area. It also came to tie this up with the liberalisation of the hours of major shops, as provided for in the legislative acts. You are presenting yourself as full-time and as a rotating worker with a few hours' work. You are also establishing this concept with the new invention, the 'COMPANY WORK' programme. It will be financed by the 'SURE' programme and will cover the cost of employees' wages, which will be paid by rotating or part-time work, i.e. again from the workers, up to 50%, covering losses of 60% of those who lose part-time. We're talking about a loss horizontally 20% on workers' wages. This is your work, such as your work and SYRIZA was the substantial abolition of collective labour agreements. Your job is to reduce the minimum wage, horizontally by 22% and 32% for young people under twenty-five years in 2013, who were in the government and who SYRIZA kept it for four years. Your work and the abolition of the thirteenth and fourteenth wages in public, over a night, as well as the abolition of the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions for pensioners, guaranteed by SYRIZA. The first residence is provided for a small extension. Then what? Auctions for those who were in a bad position, those who paid dearly for your policy, will lose their homes at the same time. We call on the fight, in solidarity, to protect the main residence without a deadline. The self-employed were in a bad position. The measures are not enough. Some of them did not receive the compensation of EUR 800 and the majority received them too late. The 25% discount on debts paid in the short term with an expiry date of 31/5 cannot give substantial relief or overthrow the difficult economic situation experienced by thousands of self-employed and micro-professionals, whose operations are closed or incomplete, because many do not have the possibility of payment, Minister. What they are asking for is the reincorporation into the tax-free limit of EUR 12 000, the deletion of interest, fines and 30% of the remaining tax debt. These, together with the tax deduction, were really able to relieve the self-employed. The JRC shall support their requests. Gentlemen, the working class is experienced. He won't accept paying for the crisis again. The position of the self-employed is with the workers to fight for the overthrow of this policy. We are giving our strengths to intensify and increase workers' struggles. The class struggle will rise with indiscipline, with a line of rupture and overthrow. The struggle for modern needs will continue uninterruptedly. The chapter, the political staff and the silver-builders pour their bishops for the proto-magnetic concentration of the class trade unions that are grouped in the PAME, for the struggles that continue, developed by other branches, such as the fights of workers in food - tourism, which the government hit yesterday, threw them chemically, which the Minister of Labour locks down, fortified behind the Ministry and does not accept any union. All of these people are interested in social distance. But they do not care when it prevents profits such as transport, tourism. On the planes, he says, there will be no distance. The government is trying, and with this bill, to prevent, to make workers' struggles difficult. It has found an opportunity, apart from the strike laws, to lift the ban on political empowerment. With Article 16 of the other provisions you come to strengthen the electronic vote, to block the organization of the games. Legislation on the legality of decisions of general meetings by teleconferencing conferences. It is obvious that you are undermining the living functioning of the trade unions. You hit their upper organ, the general assembly, where opinions are exchanged there, end up and decide how to deal with the attack, which they accept in their rights, how to organize their struggle and their claims. The ban on meetings of more than ten people - a measure for non-spliting the virus - was used to limit the reactions, the racing events and the demands of workers. This constraint has taken advantage of the urban state against heroes, as you call the sanitary, with the MATs in the "Evangelism" and where the workers have been mobilised elsewhere, to highlight the major shortages in personnel, in health material and the great shortages in the public health system, to claim upgraded public and exclusively free health for all people. The pandemic teaches how parasitic and historically out-of-date the role of industrialists, shipowners, bankers, brokers, total urban class, and at the same time also teaches how socially useful industrial workers, supermarket employees, banks, delivers, farmers, hired scientists, researchers, nurses, doctors, teachers and tourist workers are, as a whole, all employees. The JRC gives all its powers, so that the working people's forces can enter the struggle, which have shown that by indiscipline can discipline your plans, so that social action, the alliance for the abolition of all foreign laws, legislative acts, for life and health protection measures, for mass recruitment in the public health system, for exclusively public and free health, against redundancies, the worsening of labour relations, new forms of exploitation, for the support of labour, people's income, with measures to protect all the unemployed, to pay the big capital and to open schools with safety and no gaps with mass, permanent appointments of educational and staff cleanlinesing, ensuring all the necessary means and infrastructures, so as not to go through the new measures to suppress popular action, in order not to become auctions for people's homes, to organise solidarity, so that no one remains alone and helpless. The sooner the resistance to your plans is organized, the more effective the struggle of the workers and the people will be. We are voting 'no' at the beginning of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u177	Thank you. Before giving the floor to the next special speaker, Mr. Kontozamanis has asked for the floor to table some legislative improvements. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to submit some legislative improvements to the draft law. Here, I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u179	Good. They will be distributed to the rapporteurs and special speakers. Mr. Vassiliardos, special speaker from the Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, in the first committee we said that the government is trying to deal with the deep economic crisis, with fragmentary measures and with corrective action, having regularly submitted a number of parallel MDGs, namely that it has not included its interventions in a comprehensive plan to support the Greek economy, and has not given an answer to exactly how the budgetary measures, which will be borne by our deficit and public debt, and how much they are actually spent monthly, are actually being spent. We also pointed out the fact that the House is not a JEP to use it only for the government to guarantee its bills, with a solid majority, which ensures that it is "yes" in everything, thus destroying the legislative power by the executive. In other words, proposals must be heard and also adopted by the other parties. It is not right that anyone should be taken into consideration against the Greek Solution, because we are civilised, and we are not arbitrarily speaking from the benches and we are not acting in such ways, nor are we to release slandering accusations, as unfortunately some other Members are used to. The Greek Solution, however, is a party that believes in the mixed economy and the national state. It has nothing to do with the extreme neoliberal New Democracy, which supports multicultural societies and illegal immigration. It has not been mismanaged, it has not been overrun and has not been bankrupt in Greece, such as New Democracy and KINAL - PASOK, two parties, who want to "wash out" on the basis of the well-known crimes of SYRIZA. Continuing, we stressed that Greece needs horizontal support measures, along with strengthening the liquidity of businesses and workers, so that we do not find ourselves with armies of hundreds of thousands of unemployed, especially in the tourism sector. The government, of course, is already trying to cover the adverse effects of its economic policy, which have appeared since the fourth quarter of 2019 behind the coronary, which will not convince and convince anyone already. It is the essence that will be measured at the end of 2020 rather than communication, as it is today. In particular, with regard to the auctioning of the first home, which gives a very small postponement with the draft law, we have proposed a year ago in Parliament the only solution that exists, the creation of a state agency - the example of the United States in 1933 - through which the problem has been solved radically, without anyone losing, neither the citizens of their homes nor the banks have their loans or the state. Besides pointing out the need to change our failed economic model again, what went bankrupt in 2008 and failing us again today, we said it goes without saying that the primary sector, processing and, in general, entrepreneurship must be supported and strengthened, because the recession envisaged, among other things, if it falls back to the extent that tourism seems to be taking the right measures in time, will hit all sectors, whether they are now working or not. We will only repeat here three of our many proposals to tackle the crisis, which are the following. Firstly, the suspension of all auctions, as long as the recession and the mandate of the collecting companies do not harass the debtors during at least this critical period. Secondly, the reduction by 50% of VAT, at least in the first-needed species until the end of the epidemic, to facilitate the income-saving citizens, as well as in order to move the market and do not cause price increases due to the reduction in supply. Thirdly, the rapid promotion of the ESDP files so that investments can be made, which are absolutely essential to us. We have then referred to the individual articles of the bill, where we will repeat our remarks only on some of them, which we consider to be particularly important, as well as on the questions we have asked. Article 4 is essentially a repayable loan and not a repayable advance, since the allegedly repayable advance in whole or in part will be repaid to the State over the next few years at a low interest rate. It is noted here that the exact amount of the interest rate has not yet been set, while the restrictions on this measure pose great problems for companies. In Article 24, why is employment necessary here for citizens of third countries? Greek unemployed and homeless citizens do not exist to work in the employer? Or is it the government's plan to legalise all illegal immigrants who have settled in our country? Does he not realize that what happened in Cranidia and then in Porto Heli will create, among other things, major problems in our tourism, while it is just the beginning? In Article 30, the arrangements in this provision have already given rise to intense discussions in the TAs, as the municipalities face a great liquidity problem, due to a reduction in their revenues from their compensation services. Therefore, as the municipalities themselves emphasise, they cannot share with the JHA, with the municipal water and sewers, that is, poverty and in the future. By letter now to the Minister of Interior on 19 March, the JHA Union pointed out that the economic situation of JHA has deteriorated recently, due to an increase in electricity tariffs, which resulted in an increase in their energy costs of around 20%. This increase creates an additional serious economic problem, particularly those which are settled by their dues to PPC. So we have asked here what measures will be taken by the government to reduce JHA electricity tariffs so that they do not collapse. In the second committee, we started with what the President of the GSCE said at the hearing of the bodies, which were literally terrifying, such as the drop in the turnover by 95%, the prediction of closing 35% of the catering shops, one in three, that is, 15% in general of small and medium-sized enterprises, and so on. If all of this happens, knowing that much of the small and medium-sized enterprises and hotels are in debt or debt, the situation in the economy will become nightmare, let alone if tourism falls above 50% compared to 2019, which, of course, we are absent and will not happen if the government operates rationally. It's not supposed to happen. However, we wonder whether the Ministry of Finance has calculated the fall of revenue in addition to the measures it takes with regard to the deficit in the budget and thus the public debt. We've asked before, but we can't get an answer. We hope that we will be answered today. The next big issue that has been discussed was the behaviour of the banks, which, for the 80 % guaranteed by the state, require cash guarantee for the remaining 20%. The suspicion that these loans are being used illegally for the restructuring of their customers' old debts has been made, which should be checked immediately. In other words, instead of giving new loans to their customers to support their liquidity and hence the Greek economy, they change the existing ones so that they manage to collect 80% from the state, which, if indeed, will be a fraud. We mean transferring their customers' red loans to the state, so to Greek taxpayers, on the occasion of the state guarantee, which means that the government must ensure that it does not happen. However, it is right that the President of the GSCE has proposed that state-owned direct loans to the State and, in addition, to the Development Bank, which must finally work, so as to really support the businesses they need. In some of the following articles in the first MDG, we will be limited to pointing out the following: Article 46. Essentially, this regulation completely and retroactively cancels the submission of complaints, in other words of infidelity against banking institutions. Those who have not been insulted in the expiry of the initial four-month period have now finally lost their right. The solution facilitates those who have not actually intended to indicte themselves within the four-month period, since the new regulation does not "hate" - in an introductory word - to consider their failure to act as a result of their fault and can now justify their failure by introducing the MSF. Who really serves this provision? It's a rhetorical question. Obviously, the bank executives, who will avoid any persecution. Article 69. What will the EOT assign, which he cannot carry out? Why is the experience of the Agency’s executives being ignored when the EOT is the only body in the country that has established and implemented crisis management systems in the past? What will be the subject of cooperation with “MarKETING GREECE S.A.”, which has already been written many scandalously? What need and what criteria have they imposed on the private company “MarKETING GREECE S.A.”, contracts relating to the implementation of programmes and actions aimed at promoting, advertising, promoting, communication and public relations in Greece and abroad? Article 72. What is the public interest to grant aid to tourist accommodation? Is it about the decongestion of the islands of East Aegean and the establishment of the tourist accommodation in the inland areas of the applicants for asylum of illegal immigrants? In the second MDG, we will also be confined to only a few articles, since it does not allow time to refer to more. In Article 6, it raises many questions to give further privileges to the Athens International Airport, how much more so to the German “FRAPORT”, in which we sold out all our profitable airports, with an incredibly scandalous contract. Is it possible for the bankrupt Greece to support businesses in Germany? It is disgraceful even to think about it, not to legislate! In Article 40, the regulation for seafarers is positive, but it is surely a lot of the limitations laid down in the Article, in particular paragraph 1. We believe that this should be reviewed in order to support all seafarers without exception. Finally, the following provisions will be noted in the other provisions: In Article 3, for the firms affected and their employees, it is not sufficient to simply transfer their obligations in a simple and vague manner. There should be a write-off of debts in proportion to the percentage of the turnover or salary that they have lost. In Article 34, this regulation creates a great deal of concern. In particular, the consent of humans should be explicitly required for samples of biological material. People must consent, not make it compulsory. Article 36. Radio radiation belongs to the list of possible carcinogenics. They affect the function of the immune system, while 93% of the investigations substantiate possible oxidative lesions. Modern fibre optic networks, which offer a corresponding efficiency at speeds, should be selected in this respect, but much smaller radiation emissions. Finally, we must pay particular attention to the issue of banks, the stoppage of auctions, the financing of the private economy, the reduction of taxes, the primary sector, the tax facility for businesses, the defence of our country and security, our national issues, that is, immigration. As far as the Commission's programme of support for the Community, which we have taken a hurry, as usual called the Marshall Plan, is concerned, we shall refer to our second language. It's too early, though, to celebrate, as we usually do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u181	The reason is the Special Rapporteur from Mera25, Ms. Maria Apatzides.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. Ministers, the bill ratifys a legislative act with measures to deal with the consequences of the COVID pandemic -19, as well as the return to social and economic regularity, while it contains other provisions which are around this approach. As MERA25, we are very critical of the bill. I will mention, first of all, the main reasons we are in total negative and then we will see the most important articles with which we disagree. First of all, it is a bill, which stacks too many heterogeneous articles on issues of a very different kind. As MERA25, we are very concerned about the fact that good legislation is being degraded in this way. In particular, with regard to other provisions, the following should be noted: Substantial issues, which should be the product of consultation, study, information by bodies, simple annexes to a legislative act. Unfortunately, the way in which you legislate goes goes beyond the limits of democratic accountability. Legislation becomes a simple annex to PPP. It's a practice we shouldn't get used to. The second reason why we are most critical is the philosophy of the bill on economic measures. The main mistake is that the provisions of the bill deal with the crisis as if it were a liquidity crisis, and in fact it is a bankruptcy crisis. For this reason, the measures are too steadfast and unrealistic. At a time when we are dealing with massive bankruptcies, it is - let me be allowed to express ourselves - as if you were giving aspirins for cancer. If the crisis were to be tackled as it is, that is, a crisis of mass bankruptcy, then we would have other measures, what Mera25 supports, such as the immediate abolition of all tax prepayments and, at the same time, deep haircuts on the debts to public citizens and businesses, which were hit unrelentingly by the quarantine. Merra25 has submitted to the public dialogue seven plus costly economic and financial support measures, precisely in the logic of a brave and adequate response. A third point, which I would like to note, is that as a MERA25 we have no opposition monopoly. With what they really help, we will agree, as we have supported the policy of strict quarantine at the beginning of the crisis, without party microscopics. However, we must note that we disagree with the government's view of dealing with the crisis. So, by extension, what concerns us is, on the one hand, that the measures are inadequate - I have already said so - and, on the other hand, worse, they are glowing by their absence from the bill all those measures which would make the real difference. It is clear that the treatment of the coronary epidemic has two phases: the full quarantine phase and the phase of the gradual withdrawal of the quarantine. In Mera25 we have stressed from the beginning of the pandemic crisis that the transition to the second phase can mean only one thing: Mass tests and case tracing, so that we are not in the dark and in the mercy of luck, as now, so that the coronary bodies have the necessary medical monitoring, being isolated from the community as a whole and those who are not bodies, i.e. the vast majority, can successfully relaunch economic activity. A state that works with a program should have already run the mass tests. This, of course, would require a plan for where and how citizens will be examined, as well as what technological infrastructure, for example telephone applications. They'll get the temporary passport, if they're virus-negative, to circulate. These measures are absent, while the government's general thinking has a profound contradiction. In the first phase, we had strict quarantine. In the second simple - let me just say - we are fading at the mercy of luck, blindly and forget all that we have learned in the previous period from fear that tourists will not be discouraged. Of course, we all want to have tourism this year, but precisely tourism, if there is credibility, based on mass tests and traceability. The clear contradiction between an extreme mantle and a also extreme blind shoe means unreliability. This unreliability can damage both our health and tourism. A fourth point, which I would like to note, is that the measures clearly reflect the guilty preferences, favours and dependencies of the government. From this point of view, the bill is a mirror, which shows the government's classic and favourable character. The support provided by the bill is not only inadequate, but also unequal. It's very interesting to see where the main support goes. Unfortunately, this bill also has rules of class, selective, but even provisions of photography and rushphetological. After drawing up these four key points of criticism, which is why we are negative as a PART25 to the bill, I would also like to look at some of its characteristic articles. Of course, at that time, I will only denounce some of them, due to time, which is considered to be characteristic of the trends I have been critical of. I will insist on the ratification of the 1-5-2020 legislative act: 'Reader measures to address the continuing consequences of the COVID pandemic -19 and the return to social and economic normality'. Here there are provisions where hazards exist, in Part I, with provisions for the Ministry of Finance. The first article raises the very important issue of the protection of the principal residence. The Article extends until 31 July 2020 the possibility of applying for the adjustment of the debts of natural persons with a view to protecting the principal residence from forced liquidation. This is a three-month extension to avoid auctioning, a provision of the infamous plan 'HRAKLIS'. The question is, of course, after 31 July what? All those people we've invited them to stay home will be undone? The coronary, unfortunately, does not know from dates. It's a reality. It can come back after 31 July and, of course, in the autumn. Then how are we going to act "we live Home" ripped off? These are reckless extensions that only prolong desperation. MERA25's position has been complete and recorded for several months. We have a ready proposal for a law, which we will put forward, which concerns the regulation of red loans in total, and not just the protection of the principal residence. We call it the "Odysseus Plan", because we do not believe in a so-called "Heraklis", which cleanses the wing of Augia, but more to the value of the home estuary symbolized by Odysseus, a home an outbreak that is salvation for the coronary and, more generally, for the well-being of society. The second article ‘Regions on the 25% discount for payments of accredited corporate and natural debts’ extends the discount arrangement to 25% and to debts paid since 29 March 2020. It shall be effected by offsetting an amount equal to the amount of the discount and other established debts or instalments of instalment payments to the tax administration, which have final payment dates after 1 June 2020. This is a characteristic case where the government gives a gift of permeability, since it provides the possibility to offset debts by 25% only in the event of full repayment of debts. Article 6 is of paramount importance: ‘Urgent airport support measures’. This is a photographic provision concerning the 'FRAPORT'. The request for suspension of this and a number of other public obligations had been made by the ‘FRAFORT’ in six letters addressed to the relevant ministries and the GOI in mid-April. As we can see, the government has responded quickly, but also selectively. The measure concerns only ‘FRAPORT’ as an airport manager, but not the Athens International Airport, which has made such a request, due to the substantial nullification of air traffic. This regulation also becomes of particular importance because of the European Recovery Fund announced. It is now clear where the money is to be borrowed by the country in the fifth memorandum. In order to avoid any doubt, the FRAPORT has already obtained a suspension at least until the end of the year for the basic annual debt to the public of EUR 22.5 million, a concession fee, while it still claims a number of other suspensions and aid, which it had notified by letters from the administration to the relevant ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u183	It was paid by the ‘FRAPORT’ in the public interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u184	I don't see her, at least in the evidence I have. We'll check it out, Minister. We might be wrong. We'll see. These include: suspension of the contribution of approximately EUR 13 million to the public for the year 2020 affected. Delay in starting payment of variable remuneration to the State by one year, i.e. 2022 instead of 2021, due to the projected loss of a productive year. European and state support for repayment of loans to international development financial institutions - European Investment Bank. Include airports in European grant programmes, cancel all tax obligations for this year and year. The culmination? Fair compensation for the loss of revenue, which will be created from the unprecedented measures taken at European level. In one of the letters from the "FRAPORT" to the ministries of finance, transport, infrastructure and investment, it essentially proclaims and stops work at the construction sites of the airports, which manages and has undertaken their construction upgrades by quoting the letters from the contractors of INTRAKAT, which indicate a sharp reduction of staff in the projects by 60%. Although generously supported by each source, the ‘FRAPORT’ to upgrade the fourteen airports was an absolute priority of the Government in suspending its debts. Of course, the problem of aircraft evacuation exists, but on the basis of the claims and the first profits at the "FRAPORT", the following questions arise: Firstly, why has the government prompted the postponement of the 'FRAFORT' for millions of workers and small and medium-sized enterprises, when only three months of public debt has so far been suspended? And why just the "FRAPORT" and not the Athens International Airport and the other public airports? Secondly, what FRAPORT considers self-evident will she do for those who serve? Will the fees, for example, be reduced, as the Chamber of Chania has recently asked for, or will it insist on the increased fees of EUR 18,5 per passenger, from EUR 15 imposed last year, on those airports that have completed the upgrading projects? Thirdly, how does the government respond to the request for reasonable compensation for loss of revenue and for State and European aid claims, as has already been done by the parent company to the German Government? Does the issue of default of the concession contract arise from the apparent freezing of the regional airport upgrading projects? Fourthly, how will the Government respond to any requests for state support from other air operators, primarily from the domestic monopoly of ‘AEGEAN’, which was raised by the scandalous privatisation of the company ‘OLYMPIAKI’ 20 years ago? It should be noted that AEGEAN's leaders are appalling the collapse of its revenues by 99% due to the pandemic. What does the government intend to rescue? The main project, the country's fair, as is necessary through its state control or owners? These are questions that are alarming and need answers. A characteristic of the government's priorities is also the eighth article on the suspension of debt recovery and an extension of the deadline for the payment of instalments for gaming companies. Is debt collection suspended for a period of time? which does not exceed six months and which extend the deadline for the payment of instalments for gaming operations. Of course, it is not inconsistent to make it easier for companies which have suspended their operation unintentionally. However, these facilities are challenging when the natural persons and the media are far less inferior. In Part Fifth, Article 23 on the use of municipal revenues from fees and rights to meet other needs simply underlines, instead of resolving the acute financial problem faced by the TAs. The government, instead of solving it, balls. It does not automatically appear that the deprivation of these resources from the normal courses contributes to the uninterrupted operation of municipal services for the benefit of local communities. You are divising a field of arbitrariness at OTA level. Article 36 authorises the Ministry of Education to take the necessary measures by means of a joint ministerial decision on the smooth and safe operation of schools this year and of the year. However, we are reminded of the mistakes made by the Ministry for Protection, for example, for inadequate measures, for the distances of the thrones in the school halls, the disgraceful situation that already exists in schools. I mention, for example, the large number of pupils per class, in classes which often do not exceed ten to fifteen square metres, in the absence of the necessary and necessary training staff, in the absence of equipment in schools even in kinds, which are essential for health and safety. There is no provision for teachers, to whom there are people belonging to vulnerable groups. It would be better, instead of the Ministry of Education’s HQS, to follow closely the Health Ministry’s instructions for protection from COVID -19, which also apply to other closed public meeting rooms. In the time I had given you the views of Mera25, and I explained why we are negative and we will vote against the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Apajidis. The cycle of the prototypes of the rapporteurs and the special speakers has been completed. As has already been announced, we will be following statements by groups of Members of Parliament. We will start with Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece. Mr Velopoulos will then speak, Mr Stavros, the Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, and we will enter a circle of parliamentary representatives afterwards. Mr. Koutsubas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u186	Let me begin today's speech with the recent developments in Evros, in general, developments in Greek-Turkish relations in the wider region that are particularly worrying and which, in our view, contain serious risks. You have a great responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the government, because you continue the dangerous tactics of reassurance, with the Prime Minister first and best telling the Prime Minister about the events in Evros that nothing has happened. Is it not noteworthy that Turkey is questioning the 1926 Protocol and the Treaty - by extension - of Lausanne, which established the borders between the two countries? Or is it not noticeable that a number of events and developments that come to be added to them in Evros are not remarkable? I would remind you of what you are already aware of, the Akar statements on the legalisation and continuation of the overcrowding on the Greek islands, in the context of the logic of the grey areas, the Tsavosoglu statements on the intensity of the refugee flows on the islands and possibly on Evros, in the context of the European Union - Turkey's unreasonable agreement on the refugee issue, the use of the irresponsible Turkey- Libya agreement and the Libyan agreement with the Turkish oil company, which brings closer Turkish investigations to the south of Crete. While an element of the escalation of Turkish provocativeness is Erdogan's current energy to lure a global cultural monument, such as Agia Sophia. All this, of course, proves Turkey's deepest geostrategic pursuits in the wider region. All of you have become NATO's Navy Priests and you are blemishing your American Natian allies for the supposed security they provide in our country, hiding the dirty and dangerous role they play at the same time. But Turkey, with NATO's backs, is showing power. Recently the statements by NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg, who supported Turkish operations in Libya and the Sarajevo government. This policy of involving the planning of the United States and NATO, a policy you are all following, has been bankrupt. You assume great responsibilities, because you do what goes through your hand to raise this involvement, irresponsibly expecting that you will be able to draw a greater share of the domestic groups in the conflict about who will put the entire wealth of the region into hand. Today, the only positions which can express the people's interests and promote the struggle of our people, the common struggle of all peoples, are the positions for no border change and no participation in the struggles for the management of the Aegean Sea, the closure of the Souda base and the other American bases, and government decisions to participate in imperialist missions abroad and release from these alliances, to combat the nationalist screams of all kinds and warfare. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to another point concerning today's legislative acts, namely the government's celebration of the Recovery Fund proposed by the Commission. Of course, these celebrations obscure reality. The reality is that new grants and loans will be directed to the pockets of large business groups. Of course, the people of Europe will have to pay again with new burdens and new measures. Of course, the deception game is not just the government. The Civic Opposition is playing it too. In fact, Mr Tsipras and Mr SYRIZA came out and said: 'It was a wonderful surprise, positive development of the Commission's proposal'. Is it pleasant for whom, gentlemen of SYRIZA? Is it pleasant for the people of Europe, for the people of Greece? Sure, no. Really, what's the key? Is it the amount of funding or where they go and why is this money being given? Previously, the European Union - we all know - has given a lot of money to destroy Greek agricultural production. Was that a good thing? Once again, you are proving your role as left-wing singers of the barbarity of this system and of the European Union itself. However, for the JRC these developments are not surprising. Much more, it is not a pleasant surprise or a positive development. It is simply the interventions that the European Union is doing in conditions of deep crisis to support monopolistic groups in a number of sectors, such as, for example, air transport, green growth, the digital economy, while being accompanied by a commitment from all its Member States to promoting various anti-grass reforms, that is, all this anti-grass agenda, which was shaped and even before the pandemic. It turns out that it is not the amount of funding that determines their class character each time, but the purpose for which they are given and the conditions which accompany them, of course, at the expense of the workers. It is also clear that the governments of the European Union, neoliberal and social-democratic, North or South, can end up in temporary fragile agreements when it comes to their joint attack on workers, the peoples of Europe. Today, forty-one years after Greece entered the EEC at the time, the fairy tales of the parties defending this reactionary alliance have collapsed and the latest developments with the pandemic simply come to confirm it once again. We believe that the road that really benefits the Greek people, but also other peoples of Europe, lies only in the release from this modern pit of lions. Ladies and gentlemen, the anti-government measures contained in the legislative act, which we are debating today, but also those which you are still preparing, prove how much mockery they are what you are saying that the damage will be shared to everyone. It is a great mockery, not only because workers are paying for the damage, over ten years now, but also because the burdens of the new crisis are being recharged to support the profitability of the few groups. That's your poor thing. That's your target. This is why, on the one hand, you provide plenty of state money and new tools to big business, while on the other you are leveling labour relations, collective agreements, labour people's income. To this end, you are identified, gentlemen, by the New Democracy and by SYRIZA. That is why you have served in a race which of you will best serve the great entrepreneurs, and at the same time you do what goes through your hand to deceive the many. Do you both not agree with the tax immunity of capital? Do you not agree with maintaining all the Memorandum Laws that enhance the flexibility in labour relations, the attack on income, the taxing of popular strata? Did not all legislative acts come into this territory? Your match makes an eye. In fact, you say exactly the same thing, no matter how much you dress it up with different words, and show some different versions of it: how, in other words, workers accept new sacrifices for the profits of a handful of a few. You got a first answer yesterday from the workers, for example, in tourism and foodism, who say attributes: "The big-time owners have money to live ten to a hundred lives, while the workers in the industry have not yet had one more day". Gentlemen of the government, you know very well that the anti-corruption measures you have announced are similar to the measures of the previous memoranda you have alternated, but you have all voted together. What exactly are you doing today? You are still cutting the income of workers, who of course have planned their lives, their needs, on the basis of the wages they receive from their work. You generalize flexible work everywhere and for everyone in hours and days of work. Remove all collective agreements in force, since all conditions that determine wages and working times are overthrown. You give new tools to energy to proceed with new wage reductions in a very wide range of workers. Monitor reductions that at best will be 20%, and an important part that will remain out of work will be found either with the EUR 534 of the contract suspension allowance or the EUR 400 of the unemployment benefit. At the same time, a large part of the workers will remain inactive and without any protection. As without protection a large part of the workers were found in the pandemic, but after it. With the measures you have put forward in the year's income for many workers, it is limited to EUR 1,600, that is to say, more and more in four months' unemployment benefit. In fact, labour subsidies itself prove to be a cannabis aid only to employers. Workers are on the sidelines, half-em ployed, who are unemployed with wages, who are indirectly approaching the constant pursuits of large capital and of their governments, i.e. being paid with the minimum guaranteed income, with crumbs of a bank. The so-called conservation clauses prove not just perforated, but only for the eyes of the world. No one commits the employer to maintain the worker after the end of the period of State aid to wages. In the workplaces and almost every sector, workers are concerned because they know the real situation, live it every day. Moreover, given the total absence and underselling of the control mechanisms, it is assumed that, as is often the case with part-time contracts, which is being illegally extended, now thousands of workers will be forced to work at the time they are supposed to not work. In the period of quarantine incarnation, we counted dozens of complaints every day. Today the working people are once again standing at six metres. At the moment that we are talking about all the business offices, computers have come out to see what that mix of measures will bring the best possible result for themselves, reducing wages and increasing flexibility. And the working family is doing the same thing, but she's gonna see how she's gonna get through it. You see, big business thinks how much more they'll earn, how much they'll eat, how much more the workers, the people will lose. We're looking to find out what is what leads you today or is worth such a projection that you're doing to him like you do. You say so many big words about the infamous subsidisation, arguably, of work. You are all talking about subsidisation and not unemployment, as if this measure were something innovative. So, ten years now in the capitalist crisis, what did you do? Did you pay subsidisation to the unemployed? No, of course not. Employers have again been receiving subsidies, baptizing their job subsidies. They were the ones who took the lion's share of the sums recorded in the OAED budgets. Over the past few years, the enthusiasts have had to choose from a number of programmes which have exploited every possible and unlikely version of flexibility, while at the same time subsidising unemployment has become more stringent to the extent that one of the twelve unemployed is subsidised. All these programs put from the back door all sorts of flexible work, circumvented collective labour contracts, reduced wages, increased working hours. Your press parrot parrots on the canals are all making all this carrots, of course. Only ironic comments and comments staging bile know how to do for the workers themselves and for the great support that the JRC gives them to defend their rights. And don't tell us again about the employer's supposed commitment to keep jobs, because you know very well that in the years of the crisis these commitments went for a walk. These programmes were used not only in the private sector but also in the public sector. They became the Trojan horse in the workplaces, building armies of disposable mispaid and flexible workers. So today we are counting various types of contracts with an end date in a series of labour structures and sites. A characteristic example is the area of cleanliness in municipalities. We are talking about thousands of cleaners, who now that primary schools are opening, should at the same time clean up both primary and high school. We are talking about all these workers who are moving them from one service to another and for years now you are keeping them in constant hostage. So this is the famous subsidisation of work. And in order to prevent you, we tell you that your real goal is not to reduce unemployment, as you have been struggling for years, but the main aim is to strike labour relations, to smash contracts, to smash wages. You know very well that, with your policies, unemployment is not declining substantially, at the most - it is very recycled. On the eve of the pandemic, what you have achieved - and, as you have said, in conditions of development - was that unemployment should be officially 17%, with the long-term unemployed being on the OAED lists, none of them being subsidised and the black uninsured job worries. Even OAED himself twenty years has now been unable to provide concrete evidence of how many of these jobs of the hundreds of subsidised projects have been converted into permanent and stable jobs. Do you know why? Because these indicators are close to zero! Today you come with a corresponding programme, but it is more general. It is a programme that, if we replace the word 'SURE' and we put the words 'joint' or 'voucher', it is exactly the same, it has the exact same effect. And you gentlemen there, to SYRIZA, so hypocrisy anymore? The voucher programs and social work programmes don't you remember them? Or have you not implemented them too, even celebrating their absorption? You even had the OAED cleaners unpaid and at the end you threw them out! Workers now have a lot of experience. They know they've paid for the past few years too much and will never pay again. Ladies and gentlemen, we also inform you that the Group of the Communist Party of Greece has tabled this draft legislative amendment - an addition to LARCO, in order to stop the plans for the dismantling of this strategic important operation. The JRC's amendment, based on the Party's firm position on the exploitation of the country's mineral wealth, provides for the self-evident provision for the rescue of the company, i.e. the abolition of the special clearer's power, measures for its full operation, modernisation and development of LARCO with state funding, protection of all employees in the company and their rights. However, the text of the amendment deserves to be read not only by the workers of LARCO, but by all the workers, to see which company is responsible for all of you. Because LARCO is the only company in the European Union producing ferro-nickel through processing its own domestic ore. Our country has 90% of the registered nickel deposits throughout the European Union. These ores are cobalts, which makes them difficult to find worldwide. This also seems to be the reactionary role of the European Union once again, and it also fines above it, because it wants to end with LARCO. How else will European monopolies put their hands more easily in the wealth of LARCO, in the wealth of Greece? LARCO is the proof that our country has huge productive potential, mineral wealth, skilled labour - technical staff, while for you it is a barbaric and you want to get it out of the way. But in the hands of another labour, indeed, people's governance, which will otherwise organise society and the economy, it will be a great supply to meet the needs of the people. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister recently re-baptised the public health system and by an ESS, he said it was "new ESS". Except that nothing new for the people can arise from the same old materials of commercialisation and privatisation policy, because it is quite simply a bankrupt. This policy, long before the pandemic, arrived at the public health system just before the collapse, with minimum health payments being eliminated and mispaid, with 20% of them counting days or months before dismissal. This policy now has put an entire people on hold for a medical appointment, for exams, for a diagnosis, for a cure, for his medications. This policy transformed the ESS into a "Kronoesh" and left without care for patients with chronic illness, while depriving other heart patients, cancer patients, the necessary care. And while our people continue with anguish to have a look at the public health system, you keep an eye on how business groups will benefit from health. Therefore, even within the pandemic, you doubled the compensation from the insurance funds for each bed ICU, you booked the world home without a doctor, instead of overseeing the private sector, you let uncontrolled private groups squeeze their staff and deprive them of even elementary protection measures, you gave them the freedom to redeem them from diagnostic tests. Now reintroduce the plans you have left in the middle, where the new national health system will work in cooperation with the private sector, with the PPPs, the well-known partnerships and partnerships with the various health business groups. You are presenting, in other words, a policy which deprives the people of their right to full, free, modern health services. These old materials are already tested in more advanced economic capitalist lands, such as in the United States of America, where millions of uninsured people didn’t even pass the hospital door, while others paid dearly for hospitality or in vain looking for a bed in the ICUs. They were tested in countries where doctors chose who would live and who would die because of the lack of ICMs, such as Italy, Spain, Britain and elsewhere. But now, with the experience of pandemic, the people have to say 'It's enough'! It's enough with mockery toward doctors, nurses, all the workers, who, with their work and their sacrifice, keep our hospitals up! That is enough with the 'hards' and the payments of patients and insured persons, with sub-funding and shortcomings! Now the fight for a state-of-the-art health system, free of charge for everyone, can be strengthened at the level of the possibilities offered by science and technology itself today. Finally, to have a good question: why don't you move on - another issue, of course, I leave the health and finish - to extend the term of office of the Board of Governors of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, as it asks, at least, other features, more than 90% of the votes cast in this sector, while you are doing so with the current legislative act for a number of other associations, unions and associations? It is more than obvious that this has been the case. If you go to court, this will really be a clear coup. And of course, we're sure you'll pay for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u187	The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to begin my speech today, as a Asia Minor, as a refugee, if you would like, from Asia Minor, Istanbul and Pontou, to remind you that today is 29 May. So today - and I am ashamed to say this, but no channel has made a single mention, I will be told by some Byzantium, etc. - the release of an entire people and a whole nation, the Byzantine Empire, began. And I start it like that because today we are living exactly the same period. If you see how history repeats - and I speak as an acquaintance of history in the sense of science - you will find that it is a parallel route, Minister. At that time, just before the fall, we had a constant overtaxation of the empires throughout Asia, which was a small empire and around the city, overtaxation, I would say, continuously, with the consequence that the people of the empire hate the very same Byzantium. They hated the state, hated the emperor. Then we had another problem: relics. There were no men to serve the Byzantium army. The same is happening today. Overtaxation and relic for armed forces due to demographics. I would also like to say that all this just before the abundance led the Turks out of the city walls and came at that time, unfortunately the ferry was opened, the Turks came in and what happened. Unfortunately, Greece is at this point today. We may not realize it, but if you see that history repeats itself as a string of death, I would say, it's just the same period. Greece has been bankrupt, over-taxed, its children have left abroad - at that time everyone left Europe from the city - and today we are at the point of zero to be afraid again of the Turk itself and also creates problems in the Aegean, Thrace and other aspects with its constant provocation. And I say this because today Erdogan decided to infect Agia Sophia - and I say it literally, to infect that for any religion, in any temple, if it was a mosque, a priest could not enter and operate because it is forbidden as an act - with his own Quran. He also put a wall, Hollywood production! And what's all we're gonna do as a country? I have it in front of me, and it's embarrassing. Honestly, I say this and let me speak as a refugee because my grandparents came from City, from Pontto, from Asia Minor, and I feel, if you like, that agony of people. And I will say it raw and let some be misunderstood: history is merciless and Turkey has no history. For centuries, Turkey has had a record of genocide and too many felonies. And unfortunately, the Greek side has not understood it, it has not focused on it, we are all over it very easily. Not a single report from someone in here. Not a single report of channels. I am not saying in the context of nationalism, the chauvinism that some people say. After all, the Left or the False Left, or those who think they're left, think that you don't need patriotism and you don't have to love your nation. Without nation, there is no internationalism. It can't be done. They are self-evident concepts and terms. And I can't understand why we're so deceiving our story. I heard Mr. Pizza's answer with grief I'll say. The fact that the Koran will be heard today in Agia Sophia answers the Greek government in this way: "This is a matter for disapproval, because in addition to others it has been described as a monument of global cultural heritage and is currently being used to promote other purposes. This is not the first time that this has happened in the historic temple. We are following any challenge, but we will always promote good neighbourly relations under international law." Two historical mistakes: First, it may be a monument of cultural heritage, but it is a Orthodox temple, which has been a symbol of our empire, of our history and is not just a cultural heritage. Secondly, he didn't mention the word Turks anywhere. Nowhere. We're afraid to say the word Turks. Even in the various messages of the political leaders, which I read, I often do not see the word Turkey. Why are we afraid to say who they are? If it were us, the Greek Solution, the government, ladies and gentlemen, since noon now, when Erdogan decided, we would have boycotted all Turkish products automatically, we would have shut down our borders and not crossed a single Turkish product in Greece. It's my opinion. The action brings a reaction. And this escalation cannot always find a firm response. Where Turkey is hurting is in its finances. And you must understand something: we are obliged to do so against history, we are obliged to respond to the nation. We can't answer that. And once we all have to define the self-evident: what is our red line? Erdogan can't want to put the Quran in St. Wisdom and neither of us talk, nobody say anything at all. We're obliged, I repeat. You will allow me, from my heart and my soul, never to forget the Marble King. I won't forget him. It's my right. I come from this area. I can't forget him. There will be in my mind and my thoughts. Is it a legend? Is it a legend? There must be, because of those mistakes we made then, we'll get our lessons along the way. And I stop here. But someone has to stop Erdogan. And it is neither the West, Russia, Germany, nor anyone. The only one who will stop Erdogan and Turkey is the Greeks is Greece. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] That's how the West of the Turks was expected to stop in 1453, but they didn't stop. That's all I had to say, and I'm closing here. On the bill, Minister, I have a lot to say. Municipalities: Take funds, 50% of investments that the municipalities had to make to cover debts, Article 33. My Minister, why? Why are you doing this? Tell me, do you, the Ministers of the New Democracy, what kind of accounting, financially, have you learned and learned? The money that the municipalities have, we'll take for investments, for projects, for infrastructure, for their municipality. But they will, and they will go to other debts. So where is the state's obligation to preserve the municipality's fund? Furthermore, as far as Article 55 is concerned, you have a weakness with non-governmental organisations. We tell you to close them, you speed up the financing procedures. Do the exact opposite. And we're still waiting for Metarakis to tell us - he's coming on Friday to talk to you - how many NGOs he closed up to today. The Turkish NGO is in Lesvos? They'll tell us if there's any. How do you accelerate their funding? Also, the greatest crime you are committing, Mr Staikoura, that you are also from an area of rural use, you say, of the Common Agricultural Policy to repay the debts of the municipalities, rather than take the money to farmers, farmers, farmers, the primary sector, Article 30. Article 24: Self-declaration without control of the extension of work permits to illegal immigrants or immigrants in the rural economy. Let me tell you something very simple: we have told you, Minister: give you EUR 60 for every Greek -30 for the Greek state and 30 for the farmer - so that we do not need foreign labour. That's not what you suggested either. You want the Greek to subsidise him and subsidise him, but you don't want him to be given a real job, to work to live, to understand that the job is the most important thing to make money. We're making soft young people like this, we're making young people who don't want to work. You give privileges to airlines. Minister - listen to me for a minute - do you know that the vouchers that the airlines are now going to give for the tickets that people booked in this quarter do not include taxes? You know that? So when an airline gives you a voucher, my Minister, it doesn't give you the tax either. You pay the tax later on. They give you 30 euros back. Look at this, Minister, please note it very much and say it to Mrs AEGEAN, which you will finance without taking any shares, from what I learn, badly and badly. Here the German Government makes war with LUFTHANSA, because it says 'you want money', 'you will give us 20% of the shares'. There has been a war between LUFTHANSA and the German Government for two, three days. So I say, "Hey, guys, the tax to pay him back? After paying him once." You give him 30 euros back. Let's go to another point: privileges to shipowners, 50% advance. You know, I could say 'no' here, but you will be invoking - and you will be right - that the islands should have ships. I understand that, but in advance 50% of what? Give 15%, 10%! So wealthy, so open-handed are you in the shipowners? The shipowners have one weakness. As a new Republic you have your weakness. Eat, drink with them, do well and put them in and take channels and do whatever they want. That's another matter. But we're actually going. Why up to 50% in advance? Give in advance 50% to all Greeks, 100%, anything, money. Also direct awards for personal protection in schools, Article 37, ‘Papouttsani and Sia UN’. Why, my Minister, direct assignments? Why? I remember that you were here as an opposition and yelling at SYRIZA - who has always been absent with the rest of them, everyone is missing, I don't know what they are all doing, but in any case - you have been shouting at those people who have been ruling since that time that they are doing direct assignments. You do the same today! Why are you doing this? What's the point? I am talking about Article 37. In Article 42, relocation of a foreign person for agricultural work. You did not hear our proposal and I insist on it. I told you 60 euros, 30 euros the state and 30 euros to give the farmer, 60 euros a piece of money will go to work for the Greeks. It's for granted, you don't get that much. Now let's go to the rest, Minister. The Greek Solution, in understanding the popular anger, Minister and ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, finally ask the Prime Minister - Minister, Mr Theodorikos, welcome! - we call it and repeat this '2021 Committee' to end it, the '2021 Committee', to clean it up! She's the Horseman. Let the Prime Minister - he has made Moses to me - tell me Hercules now that the German newspaper - has, in any case, really told Hercules to clean up his vagina. To clean him up! A flag on their mark does not put, "The Commission of 2021", a "Capodistrias is a dictator" - Mrs Angelopoulos, so that we do not forget - "The Karaiskakis had love", a "Twenty Years only Greek we are", a "the secret schools were not". This is not the 'Commission of 2021', Minister, this is the Committee of National Lobottoms. They want to make us lobotomy. And I see Rodrik Beaton here, who hopes - he says - that the 2021 celebrations will dismantle the myths of our national narrative. And I ask: is this going to be the 2021 celebration? The commission's yours? You have appointed it, gentlemen, you, the Prime Minister and you. This is a celebration to stimulate national self-confidence. It has become ridiculous - I honestly say, Minister - that the Members and voters of the New Democracy protest the '2021 Commission'. I see tweet fellow Members of your Parliament, and the people who are protesting against the nonsense of the committee, when the same party - the same party and today there is a reaction - has appointed them. Spit them out and put others on, you guys! Does she have to save and well be Mrs. Angelopoulou with the cigars in charge? Cut it out, finish the story, cut the carcinoma! That's not how it works! As for the betrayal of Macedonia, I will say that yesterday I was rather surprised by the Greek Prime Minister. It's one of the few times that I'm going to personally support the Prime Minister. And I do so in elegance, because I respect his institutional role. I have the DVD here, Mr Stakoura, with his interview, which he posted on his own personal website at the "BILD". You know what Mr. Mitsotakis said yesterday? That we will close the lignite mines earlier than the Germans, who will shut them down after twenty-five years - now hears self-sufficient - and 'the residents will have to find another job, it is none of our business'. Find out where? Should the inhabitants of Western Macedonia also go abroad? Go where? Should they go to Albania and work? Something to do? Is the Cosanite who specializes in the lignite mine going to be a rower? What's he gonna do? That was the statement. And listen to what he said at the end: 'And of course, the German companies will benefit from the closure of the lignite mines'. His statement here, DVD, and I took it, I'll testify to it in the Minutes. I regret the statement made by the Greek Prime Minister to rejoice and rejoice that the Germans will win. And unfortunately or happily, because you control the channels, you broke them with 30 million euros, did not get it, said 'what is the Prime Minister saying here? Why did he say that? How did he miss that?" [[At this point the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above DVD and the above document, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] These are incredible things that are happening in the Greek political system in synergy of the media, because they are collaborators in the misinformation, because they have dug 20 million euros, 30 million euros and I see SYRIZA plays a little bit, and the JRC stops the fairy tale there. I will say this directly and I have nothing with Mr Varoufakis: Varoufakis, Velopoulos are not in the channels, we do not exist at all. You are intact, Mr. Varoufakis, beamed to other worlds for the channels Greeks. It's known tactics. And they also take out the polls on wages, and everyone says what they want, which if there were prosecutors and who controlled them, all of them would have been in jail for many reasons. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Greek Solution is ringing at this point.]] I read to you, Minister, now - because time is pressing, unfortunately - from the newspaper 'Watcher of Thrace' that Mayor Ritvan Delli Hussein, who has a peculiar immunity from the Greek state, is posting his Facebook. Minister, imagine Greek residents of Turkey, residents of Germany constantly making messages and speaking and saying "I am proud to be a Turkish". And he's the mayor of a Greek city. The newspaper "Machine" says: "The same causes with his courage, with direct assignments and the dark management of the city, but keeps saying it's a Turk". I didn't know we had Turkish mayors. What he feels is his topic, personal, as I did yesterday in my speech about Macedonia, I did not say to you "prosecutors", I did not say "prosecutors" to the symbiotes, because my institutional role forbids it, because you have an institutional role. My personal opinion is for myself and my friends. When you're a mayor or a party president, you don't say things like that, and here the prosecutor had to intervene, he really had to intervene. No one's interfering. The Consulate in Komotini does what he wants, pays, pays, terrorizes, we have pseudos - SYRIZA started it, you still do it - who should have left the pseudoboats - instead of the regular mofts - and you have implemented the SYRIZA line. You're the same! In Skopje themselves, in the theme of Thrace, in the Aegean, you do the same in the economy! What are you doing differently than SYRIZA? You're the same and unchanging! And I will answer one argument, Minister. Is it possible, Mr Stavoura, that Mr Theocharis, the Minister for Tourism, will list high-risk islands? It's here, don't you believe it? Here it is! I'll testify this together. The Minister of Tourism took out lists of high-risk islands in areas. As if it were to say to tourists, 'Don't go there when!' And what do the tour operators do now? They're blackmailing to get a lower price than they were getting, a complaint. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Look into it, Mr. Colleague, it's not bad! Here they are, today I found them. Let's download them from his website. My friend from Germany called me and he tells me "I'm told that the island is dangerous to go. Why would I go there? I'll go elsewhere." Well, when we themselves put self-government, uh, we have to be careful, you guys, we have an institutional role. This thing can't be done! And also, to go to agricultural production, for me it is high responsibility for this government to understand, Minister, that this is a historic opportunity for the New Democracy from now on. It is your historic opportunity - I will tell you on the way - that these 32 billion euros do not become Santer Packet and Delore Pack and they eat something 'bombs', as in the past, as in some past, intertwined and glamorous. Make a real development plan, Minister! Make a real plan with support to the primary sector, but not as some abstract people call it. We have a plan for its fourth and fifth industrial form. It is very important that we understand that the cultivation of the tomato gives you great value when you manufacture it and make standardization, that is to say, simple things and, above all, find good value for agricultural products that others cannot produce. Mr Mitsotakis in Larissa, in election terms, promised the duty-free to farmers, did not do so. You must demand, Minister, that you tell Mr Vorides - the early payment of aid from the European Union to farmers and farmers already scheduled, however, earlier. There's the programs, let's push to get the money early. It's ready money we can get to give it to farmers and farmers. Listen to what mistakes you make, Minister, because Makis Voridis doesn't know about stockfarming, and he's not even obliged, a lawyer is the man. Will the calf fight with the sheep to make the judge? Now, you say, "I will compensate the farmers in Easter, who have been affected on the basis of the sheep and goat milk produced." But most of them produce sheep and goats for slaughter, for their meat! Am I wrong, my Minister? Mr. Tsiaras, who's from a village like me, because he knows, from a village, we're both, he knows. And this means that farmers are not compensated and are in the bars. You don't do it by deceit. I'm not talking about sabotage right now, to God, am I? But I say that this thing must be seen seriously, we are not legislating on paper. Let's go to the other: Compensation to a guy who has ten sheep. His wolf is eating ten sheep. Now, if his wolf eats nine, he will not be compensated, he must be eaten by ten, Minister. The nine will never be compensated, the law says so. To eat at least ten and carry their shells - listen! - in the truck and take them to the specialist. You laugh, Minister, but this is the bureaucracy in Greece! He has to go their shells and show them to the man responsible to get his compensation. And the compensation won't be whole, it'll be half the money. I mention this to understand that you do not support livestock and rural economy like this, it is wrong. You also banned the bulk of cigarettes. SYRIZA did it, who's saved a lifetime. That's why the polls take us all where they take us. Instead of all being in here and really working for Greece and legislating and criticising to help the government or to make criticism, we are absent. You forbid the bulk of cigarettes. Why? That is how you create a problem for vineyard growers and lamb farmers. You're doing a lot of damage to them. Why the bulk? You tell me! Why would it be forbidden? All of Thessaly, Crete with the tsikoudia, is in the bars. And your Prime Minister is a Cretikaar! It's from Crete, so let's go see the Cretans. I say this to understand that at some point we need to take a serious look at things. We cannot legislate like that. Prices sold by producers today, now that we are talking, have collapsed to EUR 0,12. The market has been filled with potatoes from Egypt, from Morocco, and the Greek potato producer is actually dying, starving. And you did not follow our strategy. What did we tell you, Mr. Stavoura? Support Greek products. Give rise and cause to the Greek consumer to buy Greek products to support the Greek producer. What's simpler than that? I don't know if I have to yell, scream, so people can put me on the canals to say any weird, concrete perception to get me the suggestions, because we're coming here with suggestions. I want the Greek Solution, whether it stays here, my Minister, or it is not left, to be in the memory of the Greek people as a party that came with proposals, no fuss, no fuss, no fight, no ounce, nor anything else Mr. Dendias tells us. This is Mr. Dendias who said far-right to me! Mr. Dendias called me right-wing, Mr. Dendias copying my programme for the fence in Evros! But these are incredible things! Says my extreme right-wing man, who, while last year saying he doesn't want a fence, today makes a fence, which we don't want a fence, we want a wall real, but we're saying! The New Democracy copys our program and calls me a far-right! Is it in the wrong party? Should Mr. Treasury go to SYRIZA with what he says? I don't know! There's no sense in that! Stop sticking labels. I mean, I could easily, when they call me far-right, tell the other traitor. I'll never do it, though! Because to tell the other traitor, I have to take him to court and he will be punished. It's over! And here's no court or we can't stick labels to anyone in here. It's the wrong sign, 'cause people are listening. I also have before me the very important initiative of the Agricultural University of Athens, which runs a project to maintain strategic food stocks in Greece. What the Greek Solution says for three years now comes alone the Agricultural University, without the assistance of the Government, without any help from anyone, to do so. That should be done by the government, ladies and gentlemen, not the University alone. Support universities, at least, give money. You can give the pharmaceutical industry elsewhere and elsewhere. Teachers take it! Give it here at least! Why? Because if there is no food in a state and only imports, my Minister, you are an economist, you know that - 80% of imports into basic consumer goods are a finished state. When, in other words, cereals, corn, oats - for live I mean - feed, we do not produce the same products, one thing is certain: you are sure the result, you die if it turns out that all the countries are closing their borders. I say it because some things need to be taken seriously. Let's go to the economy. Listen, you're telling me about 33 billion. Good as a number. Of course, to date every month we lose 6 billion - you know that - from Lockdown, that is, we lost about EUR 18 billion in about a quarter. It's a good number. This figure is your own historic opportunity, Mr Stavoura, your own and the entire government to make a real support programme for the economy, not to throw money away from there and from there in voucher, not wrong. To make a plan so that the economy will finally grow again, not provide a service. Don't do me the service. The provision of service is a risky production. Find a way to initiate the process. If you want to call parties to put forward proposals to see how many people have proposals from each other. Because your finger is shaken by the sieves for just one reason, because they don't have a program themselves. Because if they had a real program they would say: one, two, three, four, five, but they will be like that. No, give 50 billion, 70 billion, 80 billion, 100 billion. Call me suggestions how this can be done. We tell you two pillars: the first pillar is the primary sector, Minister. The second pillar is the development of a war industry - outside was the people before - which is exportable, unfortunately or happily. And Greece needs a war industry, because it has an enemy evil east, but this development can also be made exportable. We'll get it, maybe, 33 billion. High-tech investments, my Minister, should be given priority to 33 billion of these, not share the money like that. But have a zero rate of taxation. In other words, you will tell the other: 'Come and invest me here, high-tech brother, but I want zero for five years'. You know, China was thus developed, Minister, in the 1990s. He had zero tax rates and the European and American companies went and built their factories there. Should we copy successful recipes? I'm saying, is that it? Let's see that, too. And here I must say that a trillion in its economy gives Germany without, however, having a public debt of 80% of its GDP, Minister. I'll tell you what's going to happen with the money that's going to be given. Unfortunately, for all of us, with this practice, Germany is trying to overcharge other countries, as it did with the 'FRAPORT', as it did with our airports, as it did with all of them, and to come to all the countries of Europe to take business cheaply. We will have huge deficits and will be able to buy Germany cheap businesses that suit it. So here is the impediment that Mr Mitsotakis and you personally have to make as Minister of Finance, of course, so that this does not happen. And that is not the case, you must yourself have a plan and a programme ready for implementation. There's no more delay left. And because we are talking about the European Union, I will remind some here that in 1979, when we entered the European Union, we had a deficit of 20% of GDP and now, Minister, we have 180%. Here two things happen: Or that the European Union has not benefited from us at all and has converged us as a country - no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no - or the governments have been unable to manage the burden of the European Union to increase production so that we do not have any problems. Pick and take, there is no other solution. Don't tell me we had them together, like the other guy was saying? Oh, no. And to eat it together, as the other guy was saying, some people gave it to him, and these are ministers. They were attracted to the public, paid to them wages, subsidies to "black" funds, to strange investments, "blacks" investments that never become a reality, such as in Thrace with that huge, very important work he did at the time, Andreas Loverdos, Andreas Papandreou, for the development of Thrace, but they ate the money. The Athenians were going, making files, taking the money and leaving, Minister. That's why we're here. So this is a historic opportunity to overthrow the Greek logic. What's the logic? It's all your fault, both PASOK and New Democracy and SYRIZA. It's the fault we got here. Unfortunately, that's true. I could quote all the paintings, but I won't. What can I say about the Lagard list? That the decision of the Council of State is quoting assumptions after 2012? Taxes of 330m euros are being cancelled. And they're not my taxes, Minister, no! It is a decision of the Council of State that has come out recently. It is a decision that will force the public to return EUR 50 million. The fines of 330m euros found are illegal. All right, this is happening in the Greek state too. I would ask both New Democracy and Mr Stournara, but also some from PASOK, if I am not mistaken, for this: When we were talking about Bad Bank, my Minister, three years ago in our programme, we tabled it - we said - "replicate the American model from here" and some people were telling us here that we were curious. Now I hear Mr Stournara, I hear from PASOK - and people do well - I hear new-democratic MPs talking about Bad Bank. It's not bad to copy someone, Minister, but it's also magnanimity to say where you came from. If you are not big-hearted, you, the other colleagues, at least, say where you draw the source. I heard Mr. Stournara, for whom I have many stitches, but it doesn't matter, it's not of the present. We didn't vote for him anyway. But I'm going to say this, so I can close up here and not get tired of you. The implementation of the plan of 33 billion - Mr Stournara, correct me - requires an increase in the Member States' contributions from 1.5% to 2%, yes or no? It will increase the contribution - will it not, Mr Villardo? - the Greek or each of the States to the Fund. This money will be used as guarantees. And they are guarantees, Minister. I told you, there's a lot of money, yeah. I do not think they can solve the problem of Greece - clear things - because every month that passes is 6 billion. I don't know if the picture can be assembled, but it could be what you economists say when you get to the bottom and go up, What do we call it, Mr. Villardo?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u189	Sprinkler.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u190	The spring in Greek. Go down and go up. I repeat, it may be an opportunity for the 33 billion to be the stimulus for you and for the whole country. I wish that, but you're making constant mistakes. For example, it is unacceptable for a government, Mr. Ministers, to go next door to the best Greek military force, to the Special Forces, and a hundred meters from where it has ammunition to set me up hot spot! Go and do, Minister, in New Peramos. That's where the Special Forces are. I don't know if you've been to the Army, I imagine a lot of you've been there, but because I served in a special body next door is the ammunition. And go set up my hot spots in Nea Peramo or Samos - Mr. Stefanades is here somewhere I saw him - near military facilities! Don't do that! Take them elsewhere. We'll tell you, take them to the uninhabited islands. Is that so bad? To the inhabited islands! In oil warehouses next door? Are we all right? The people in Malakasa leave their homes. They're leaving! And that's not a racist conception. It is a reality that everyone experiences and continues crime, unfortunately, with your wrong choices. And it comes out, friends and friends, the chosen Mr. Piatt - here I will say it now to close the story - at the MEGA. And here's how a channel allows him to target another foreign country. And he states - listen - that Piat himself should not become a war conflict in Greece - Turkey because, if it is done, Vlamidir Putin and Russia will win! In other words, Mr Piatt puts Greece as a host country with Russia. Where and where? What right? And the Foreign Minister does not come out, does the Government representative not go out and tell him "what do you say, dude, we're enemies with Russia and we don't know it?"! Is that what Mr Piatt told "MEGA", the head of department here, who was in Ukraine and is going to leave in September - and you allow him to do that? - who walks around here in the House and meets Katrugalo in secret at the offices! But are we in good shape? Where are we living, guys? In Otto's day with Regentism? It's mistakes! And I say this with a lot of sympathy to a government, which has actually received chaos, but has also been co-responsible for chaos, and you must understand - it is an opportunity for you - that you must listen a little bit to this: Turkey is our great enemy. They've already taken new bases in Albania. They set bases in Libya - now listen -, bases in Somalia, bases in Qatar. Greece's curtailment business and via Skopje, from eastern Skopje, is in operation, ladies and gentlemen. My Lord Ministers, if you don't understand, summer will be difficult. It will be very difficult with the provocativeness of Turkey. And when we said months ago, "Council of Political Chiefs for Red Lines", some people were garrisoned. Now suddenly Mr Tsipras says 'yes' - Mrs Gennamas said so earlier than Mr Tsipras - but it must be done, Minister. Mr. Stavura, I'll tell you something. The best successful Minister to be as Minister of Finance, to achieve everything with the 33 billion - everything, to do what we call Houdini - if there is no Greece, you will not be too! If there is no Greece with what is happening with Turkey in a short time, we will not be there. So it is a great burden of your responsibility, and in economics, to succeed, but above all to the national ones, to actually raise a national patriotic voice, which is missing from the New Democracy. He's gone a lot! I say this sincerely because it is a patriotic party - like the rest of the parties, I want to believe - but there is no patriotic voice. With civilizations and bluffing, said the Prime Minister, no work can be done! With the Prime Minister who is glad that the German companies will work and close the mines and the Greeks will be unemployed, it is not the job that is done! Let us all be serious, but always with one logic: Above all, Greece is Greece, it is the Greeks. This is the tactic, that is our view and there are no other betrayals. Understood. The purpose of the debate is to set up a committee of inquiry in a short time. Let me see the New Democracy with the Committee of Inquiry what it will do. Let me see if with Macedonia and Macedonia's betrayal we will implement the law to find out who betrayed Macedonia and why they betrayed it, ladies and gentlemen. I'll see you then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u191	Mr Stavrou has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u192	Please, Mr President, I would like to speak for one minute on the two articles of the draft law concerning the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u193	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u194	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have therefore asked for the floor to explain to the House the specific articles concerning the two legislative acts and, of course, they come from the Ministry of Justice. For the first time, for which there was a comment by the rapporteur, Article 46 of the legislative act, I would like to clarify the following: although we had made the adoption of a joint ministerial decision setting out the deadlines for the suspension of legal and judicial proceedings before the courts, there was some uncertainty as to whether the declarations of wishing to make progress of criminal proceedings are suspended. That is why we added an explanatory provision to the legislative act to remove any doubts. To this end, for legal certainty for the effective and full protection of debtors and creditors, we have also tabled legislative improvements to the amendment, additions to which was attached in this legislative act. In addition, I want to make a comment. We didn't add, we didn't legislate anything new. One clarification we have made, and that is the answer to the rapporteur for Officerial Response, and it must finally be understood that it is not reasonable that the criminals for any citizen should be extended indefinitely. Such an approach, they must understand those who are supposed to have the particular sensitivity, come into total conflict with Union law, but also with the Charter of Fundamental Rights. Furthermore, there are two other articles in the very next legislative act from 1-5-2020. It is Article 33, which allows for the possibility of submitting a statement of case and legal documents seven days after the debate in the Council of State at the ordinary administrative courts and at the Court of Auditors and, of course, Article 34, by entrusting the administrative body of each court with the establishment of the departments, the division of cases and the definition of courts during the period of limitation of legal proceedings - we are talking from 1 to 15 July and from 1 to 15 September - since the time for amending the rules of the courts is not sufficient. Finally, there is also an amendment from the Ministry of Justice, which was tabled during the debate in the committee responsible, concerning the procedure for opening the political courts as from 1 June and, of course, the criminal courts from 21 June. You realise that all this has been discussed. It was presented by the State Secretary. If there is any reason to clarify, through all the legal provisions we have made, we are at the disposal of colleagues in order to provide any explanation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u195	All right, thank you. Mr Stagioras has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u196	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will start from two - three remarks outside the core of my location. The first was developed by the Minister of Justice because the rapporteur of the Civilian Representation thought that this provision was an instigator of the Ministry of Finance. But the answers were given by the Minister for Justice. The second relates to the Special Rapporteur of Mera25, which has been extensively mentioned in the air transport sector. We presented yesterday a specific support plan for the air transport sector - I repeat, the sector - the airlines, the groundhandling and airports companies, a coherent plan for three hundred six companies - and not one - and 11 000 employees, a framework which includes horizontal measures for the transport sector, the 'CONSULATION - WORK' programme - which will also be developed by the Minister responsible for transport, a special taxation of flight personnel - and, indeed, a legislative initiative and a legal improvement for technical aircraft - and a compensation for the months with a government mandate were closed and a reduction in VAT on transport. Total cost: EUR 115 million. And because there were bad reports - but I justify it - on two specific assets, I say that 'FRAPORT' paid the public 15 million euros in advance, 'FRAPORT' paid the VAT on the concession fee to the GOI of EUR 5.5 million, and by the act of legislation we are currently granting an extension of six months to what is due to the HSE, not to the Greek State. As far as Athens International Airport is concerned, it does not have to go to the Athens International Airport, it is to the Greek State and it is being assessed for the next period. Also, in the draft law under discussion - no one gave me any impression - I will be placed because of respect for the workers - the few who were outside and the many, much more who were at work - on the issue of ODA. The Government has dared to regulate an issue which was a timeless thorn in the working relations of workers in the ODA. It is about safeguarding the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work. The current government does not close its eyes in front of the problems, nor does it kick them down or hide them under the carpet. He chooses the difficult way to solve them. In the tenth month, EBA was exempted from the obligation to produce evidence of tax information. We've unblocked the collector's bucket, seeking the company to step on its own feet. We prevented her financial strangulation by providing valuable time to settle customs loose ends of the past. We have legislated on a rapid, but also a worthwhile recruitment process. We have reversed the chronic bleeding of the staff by excluding the company from mobility. We have decided that the legality and transparency of labour relations are strictly respected. There is no tolerance, no tolerance in gray zones that honor neither of us nor the company nor the workers. The introduction of the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work is the practical proof that the Ministry does not only take the initiative to provide solutions and to restore fair demands, but also that the incorporation and respect of the law, rules and order are major issues for the state. At the same time, from the outset we have tabled and a plan is in place which will not lose a single euro of the total amount that workers receive in a blurred context. We are here to work on the posting of the company next to the overwhelming many workers who do not participate in toys, in conditions of logic and law. Support for the defence industry and its workers by the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance is proven and we will continue in this spirit. Ladies and gentlemen, at the heart of my position, I would like to reiterate that on a global scale the coronary pandemic has caused health, social and economic shock. The consequences are complex and large. The competent European institutions and the states are looking for stables. Greece is facing the multi-faceted crisis proven by comparative success. It acts prudently, acts methodically, acts effectively. This is recognised on the international stage at a health and economic level. The Government is shown to have a plan to support the economy, a plan that is coherent, comprehensive and dynamic, which is decisively unfolding in four phases, in order best to respond to the different needs that arise from the government's good choices in health. In the first phase, in March and April, we had restrictions on economic activity, Lockdown. The government prioritised and supported the public health system. At the same time, with co-ordinate ministers with horizontal and timely interventions, we have spread a wide network of security over households and businesses. We were suspending tax obligations. We have given tax incentives to workers and businesses. We've reduced the rent. We proceeded with paying special-purpose compensation to employees, professionals and businesses by supporting the weakest economic strata. We supported unemployed. Overall in the first phase, we lifted the burden of operating almost all of the economy, as we had a duty to do in this unprecedented crisis, strengthening two million citizens. All of this is a forward-looking political and economic action. In the second phase, in which we are today, we are gradually relaunching, reopening operations. And at this stage the government continues to support households and businesses. The possibility of suspending payment of tax and insurance liabilities has been extended. The right to suspend contracts of employment, special purpose compensation, cover for insurance contributions was extended. The reduction of rents in all firms affected continues. The first phase of a repayable advance is completed in more than fifty thousand enterprises and not eight thousand six hundred supported by the Qualified Opposition. Significant amounts of around EUR 580 million have been added, i.e. on average EUR 11 000 per undertaking. So large, directly and in this way money has never been given to companies in Greece. In addition, in the working capital support programme, despite any problems, it is a fact that some 800 million euros have already been approved in twenty days, when in the TPIX I programme, 200 million has been approved in ten months. All of this is essential support for the citizens' available income, as far as the country's potential is concerned. In the third phase from June to October, the phase of the progressive recovery of the economy, government interventions are mainly based on the continuation and expansion of employment support measures - there is a specific amendment to this today - to further strengthen business liquidity and to take targeted tax measures. Many of these interventions are being legislated today and the Minister responsible, Mr Besiropoulos, will speak in detail later on. I'm fasting. Firstly, we reduce the VAT rate for specific goods and services from 24% to 13%. The reduction relates to non-alcoholic beverages, transfers and tickets to cinemas. I understand from the proposals made by the Officerial Representation - especially those presented this week - that he disagrees with the reduction in VAT on transport, as well as the reduction in rents for millions of Greek households, since I do not see them in their proposals. If they are, they should be added to the financial cost. Secondly, the financial aid measure is extended retroactively to other legal forms of companies such as civil or inherited law societies. I remember that Mr. Loverdos had raised this issue. Among other things, this is how we cover the case of the CBCs. Thirdly, it does not constitute income and is not subject to income tax and a special solidarity levy, the amount of rent that is not collected for all months in force for the reduced rent payment. Fourthly, property owners, who have proved themselves to receive a reduced rent, are entitled to a 20% discount on the rent received. The discount may be offset by debts with a final payment date after July. Fifth, the deadline for payment of certified debts in the tax office and suspension of the collection of due debts of owners of immovable property receiving the reduced rent is extended. Sixth, 25% of any debt paid and paid - be careful - from 11 March or will be paid in due time, offset by other established debts or arrangements, which have final payment dates from 31 July onwards. Seventhly, the reduction in rent for specific sectors and companies particularly affected is being extended. Eighth, the Public Investment Programme is growing and is now being shaped to EUR 8 billion for 2020, with the aim of taking immediate and extraordinary actions to address the impact of the pandemic. Ninth, the Minister of Finance is allowed to provide the guarantee of the Greek State to the institutions of the European Union under its regulations. The first provision concerns the establishment of the 'SURE' programme. This is an important safety net for workers in the most affected economies. Finally, it is recalled that the second repayable advance will be made available in this third phase to address the economic impact of the health crisis, so that the total amount allocated to it is 2 billion. At the same time, the tools of interest-rate subsidies, working capital, guarantee mechanisms, the creation of a new institutional framework for credits to small enterprises, and also the advance payment of tax to the firms affected, are also going to be generous. All of this is essential support for the liquidity of enterprises and households. Finally, in the fourth phase, from autumn onwards, we have more chance of starting policies with more permanent features, with new structural improvement strategies for the Greek economy. The European Commission's recent ambitious and realistic proposal on the Recovery Fund will make a significant contribution in this direction. A proposal for an emblematic with a strong financial footprint. A proposal in line with the scale of the difficulties we have to face. A fair proposal, because it is based on common lending, introducing the concept of reconciling European debt. A rational proposal, because it moves further into the logic of subsidies against loans. A development proposal, because it gives priority to areas that are part of our project, such as digital transformation, green development, rural policy. A flexible proposal, because it enables each country, having the ownership of policies, to implement those it chooses. For our part, from the government, but also from all the parties, we need a plan, wisdom and responsibility for managing these funds so that they can best be used to manage the health crisis, enrich the national economic reconstruction strategy and strengthen its productivity and competitiveness. In this direction, in an amendment - and Mr Karaoglu will also speak on this issue - it is planned to create an international scientific and technological park of the fourth generation for innovation development. This development is expected to have tangible benefits for the Greek economy as it will upgrade the entire region of northern Greece and attract domestic and foreign investment. To this end, it is provided by ownership to the public limited company named Alexandria Innovation Zone, which is wholly owned by the Greek State, property in the wider area of Thessaloniki, which collects all the guarantees for the creation of an international scope and the recognition of a technological park. It is noted that this property, following the actions of the current government, was transferred from the GOI to the Greek State and specifically to the Ministry of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen, all these coherent government interventions, which are unfolding into four phases, are currently estimated at EUR 24 billion. These interventions are budgetary, but they are also interventions to strengthen the liquidity of enterprises. In order to implement them, we have ensured the necessary fuel. We manage local resources with foresight and wisdom. We are making full use of the increased margins of budgetary flexibility. We are ready to use the best and at the right time the existing European financial instruments, such as 'SURE'. We successfully borrow from the markets, despite the unfavourable international environment and demand further drastic financial solutions, such as the Recovery Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, this is our plan to support the economy. A project which has gradually unfolded, as I said, since March, in different phases, supporting households and businesses. A coherent, comprehensive and dynamic plan, realistic in the context of the country's potential. The Civic Opposition Monday presented its own plan. I would say that there are real constructive policies to which we agree, since the government is already implementing these policies. For example, with regard to the sources of funding, SYRIZA encourages the government's political choice to come out of the market. That is right, with secure and realistic borrowing costs and even lower borrowing costs incurred by the previous government. We agree. SYRIZA supports increasing the issue of interest stamps, as the current government successfully does, at the cost of borrowing less than the previous government. We agree. SYRIZA supports the government's right choice of suspending tax and insurance obligations on households and businesses by limiting the original maximalist position it had developed in the first programme. The SYRIZA supports the government's right choice to make use of resources from the introduction of the European Temporary Employment Support Instrument. We agree. SYRIZA supports the government's right choice to reduce the tax advance, regardless of whether it had been forgotten in the first text, in the first programme. SYRIZA supports the government's right choice to reduce VAT to the focus, regardless of whether this had been forgotten in the first programme. SYRIZA supports the government's right choice to go ahead with establishing micro-credits, micro-finances, an initiative that, to be fair, really started from previous governance, has still not been successful. SYRIZA welcomes the European Central Bank's policies to provide liquidity to the real economy, regardless of whether we have been completely excluded from it for days. SYRIZA even welcomes the relatively good picture of budget implementation - it refers to revenue - in compliance with the Treaties, despite the objective difficulties. All of this proves, because the Qualified Opposition was forced, not just to update it, but to drastically revise its programme. But somewhere here, realism runs out and pillage and apocalypse begins. Does the government give many extra resources to health? Civic Opposition proposes multiples. Does the government reduce VAT on the focus? The Civic Opposition, which did not have in "Start Upholsters 1", proposes even more. Does the government grant a repayable advance? Civic Opposition proposes greater and non-refundable, as well as public debt. Does the government support employment? Civic Opposition proposes even more. Does the government implement a coherent economic plan for tourism? Civic Opposition proposes multiples. Does the government support the agricultural sector by giving the relevant Ministry 150 million? The Civic Opposition says it's too small to be given twice as much. The result is the financial package of the Operational Response measures on 6 April and 25 May to be the same. Nothing has changed, about 14 billion euros. To be absolutely honest, it is a little less, a little less, of 13.4 billion against 14.3 billion, although in the meantime they have proposed to implement the previous two months, but 8 to 10 billion. And while budgetary measures and suspensions are being implemented, which we all know in this Chamber - and I was very clear last time - that they are shrinking the cash resources from where the resources will be found when there are suspensions of tax obligations to pay pensions? And all of this, without taking into account the reduction in revenue and the provision of debt-sharing at the end of the year, nor the need to use the cash-guarantee tool, i.e. the cash-sharing instrument, which significantly burdens cash-sharing, nor the execution of the NSRF, which we have already used to the fullest extent to deal with the health crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u197	Minister, how long will it take?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u198	I'm gonna need three more minutes. Really, think about it. If we had as the Ministry of Finance, with the State Secretarys who are present, more available, why wouldn't we? Why should we not give more, since there are no budgetary restrictions this year? It's just that we need wisdom and responsibility from all of us. The reality is, therefore, that SYRIZA eats fantastic amounts, which in the real world there is no way to fund. In conclusion, however, you will allow me to make one final comment on the level of the recession. For I hear many in and out of halloween referring to it. The Qualified Opposition - and yesterday its President on a television channel - accused the Ministry of Finance of constantly revising its forecasts for this year's recession. Where does he live? Does it ignore the fact that the European Commission appreciated in March a recession of 1%, and today it appreciates 7.5%? Irrelevant to her? Does he not know that the European Central Bank appreciated growth of 1% in March, did it remission of 1%, after a recession of 2% to 5%, then 5% to 8% and the other day 8% to 12%? Irrelevant to her? Is he ignoring the ongoing revisions of assessments at global level because of the great uncertainty? Are they irrelevant too? Really, since you've known everything, no matter how much you value the recession for five years? We need a number. Mr. Varoufakis is the only one in this Chamber who made a recession estimate, to speak realistically. Because since you are not writing in your programme what the recession will be, nor do you say it, then we are talking about a programme in the air, about an exhibition of ideas. Mr Varoufakis said the recession would be 15%. So we can talk with certain numbers. Civic Opposition avoids being placed. One more thing: Write in your programme - I have it here -: "In all the countries affected, unprecedented measures are taken and other countries also have a marathon before them, but because they are in danger of falling into the cliff, they are taking a strong package of measures". You say this to show that - supposedly - the Greek Government does not take many measures, but the other countries that take many measures will not have a recession. And I wonder: If they do, why is the assessment of the recession being reviewed abroad in all the countries of all the institutions being revised? Or measures are not strong, as you suggest, or uncertainty is great. You obviously know the right answer. It's the second one. It's the uncertainty. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the government's financial staff have designed and implemented economic stabilisation and recovery policies after the sudden shock from the pandemic. It builds on the enhanced credibility capital inside and outside Greece. It invests in the trust relationship that it has built with the citizens. It works with a feeling of solidarity, fairly sharing the burdens of the crisis with the state receiving the largest share. It creates the conditions to confirm the forecasts for a strong recovery next year. He is actively involved in discussions on the rapid recovery of the European economy. Expectedly, companies and citizens will make responsible and efficient use of state support and assume their own share of responsibility. I think we'll all make it together. After all, so far we have proved that with faith in our powers, hard work, unity, solidarity and coordinate action we know and can overcome difficulties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a proposal from the Bureau. From that point on, it's in the House's power to decide. After Mr Varoufakis had said to the previous President-in-Office a number of speakers, namely the Parliamentary Representatives, but also an invasion of an amendment minister. With this record, and obviously with the corresponding speeches that will follow, we are talking about more than two hours. So if we follow this process, the speakers on the list will talk after 19.00. Then the list will begin. I would suggest that, if the parliamentary representatives agree, the parliamentary representatives should intervene with the old one, two. Think about it. The Secretary of Mera25 Mr. Yanis Varoufakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a week that you should be at least - at least as relieved - for there to be a connection between the very positive attitude that the Prime Minister had in the communication from the President of the European Commission, which according to the Qualified Opposition was a pleasant surprise. That's what Mr. Tsipras said. The Prime Minister came to the point with an appeal and we saw it on television - to speak to the Ministerial Council with a teleconference and to make a parallel with the very important moment, forty-one years ago, as he said, Constantine Karamanlis signed the interconnection of Greece with the European Economic Community. You really need to feel an uplift and a feeling that things are difficult, but Europe has done its duty. If you really feel that the European Union has done what it needs, so that we can depreciate to some extent or at least to an tolerated human level the austere wave of the great recession that comes, both pan-Europeanly and here in Greece, then you will finally have to answer specific questions. Thank you very much for having said that I did speak with numbers before. But you don't speak with numbers, neither do the Prime Minister. I remember it was April 30 here when I asked him a specific question: what will the recession be? I spoke. I said in mid-March 10 percent if we're lucky. I've reviewed that and I'm still 15% if we're lucky. It is not a point estiment in the language of statistics. It's - if you want - the floor of the recession. I asked the Prime Minister the following question: What do you think will be the recession? What correspondence is there between the recession and the government budget deficit that you calculate? In other words, if it is -15%, what a state budget deficit you estimate. Because no one can be sure or even about the possible allocations, if you fall out of 5%, that is you say that they are 4% and finally it turns out to be 9%, what correspondence is between this divergence in GDP and the divergence in the state budget? I put specific questions. The Prime Minister was sitting here and he stood up and told me 'I don't know'. That was the answer. I hope now that you have the good news, according to you and the Civic Opposition from Brussels, you can answer us. I will be a little more specific to questions: What do you think will be on average the deviation of the state budget from the target? What aim do you think next year's enhanced surveillance will force you? I'm sure it won't force 3% or 3.5% of the primary surplus. What is this goal that will force you? -3%? -5%? -2%? -8%? Because that is, if you like, the number that will prescribe the history of the Greek people for the next five years. It's the austerity. What do you think will be this percentage of government deficit, a primary deficit, which will impose on you next year for 2021, for 2022, for 2023? I think it's gonna be 3%. Because, as you said before, I like to speak with number, my prediction is that since Germany has reached 0% in its state budget, from -6% or -7% this year, as far as the so-called 'black zero' is concerned, i.e. a minimal surplus, more than zero, will require from the countries of the southern 3% deficit as a maximum. You tell me if you think this is a good prediction. And if not, what's the right prediction? I come to a third question. Minister, what should be the government budget deficit which will automatically trigger wage and pension cuts? On what occasion you will come here to the House and say that "The things have finally gone worse than I said. I said that we would have such a deficit, but we have such a deficit in the end." This'so' deficit which will trigger a reduction in wages and pensions in the public sector what will it be? [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Accordingly, what should be the level of reduction in private investment, private consumption, GDP, to come here and tell the Minister of Labour that you are proposing a reduction in the minimum wage? Or, if you want, we'd be very happy with this, make a statement today that this will never happen over your body. Say it! Sixth question, in substance: can you commit before Parliament that EUR 12 billion of state guarantees to the funds under the ‘HRAKLE’ Act will not be activated? Do you know what it means to you 12 billion euros? Of course you do. With the GDP figures that we will have next year, we are talking about 7.5% of GDP. Will you get a loan from the ESS 7.5% of GDP to give it to the predator funds? You're committed to doing this over your body? Say it right here. If you commit, how will you achieve this without freezing the law 'HRAKLE', without abolishing and replacing it with another law? Next question, seventh and very specific. Will the banks need recapitalisation? According to us, it's legally conceivable that they'll need it. Answer us. Are we wrong? If we're not wrong, how are you gonna do the recapitalisation? In the criminal way 2012-2013, which will provide the Greek State with shares without a vote in exchange for money that will be borrowed by the Greek people again from the Troika? Tell us. I have two more questions I did not have the opportunity to put them to the Prime Minister on 30 April, because we have developments. Ten days ago, I was in "LARCO" talking to the workers. I saw the abandonment of the factory. I have found the procedure that will voluntarily depreciate this company only to be sold to 'the other parties'. The European Commission has suspended the ban on State aid to companies such as ‘LARCO’. Will you use it to be given to you by the European Commission, or will you continue to deceive LARCO, with the aim of granting it for a piece of bread to be "weighed"? Incidentally, ladies and gentlemen of the JRC, we welcome the amendment you tabled and support it. I have heard Mr Mitsotakis talking about strengthening the National Health System. Who doesn't enjoy it! Yesterday I spoke with teleconferencing, party gatherings, but we also had representatives from Epirus hospitals who were not party officials and told me something that I think you should notice. I was told to the workers, the contractors, who will return to the contractors from whom they have rented for the hospitals. And I was told: 'The governments applaud us and say goodbye'. Is that the support of the National Health System? You are supposed to be able, through all these financial packages, without even recording the deficit, to spend substantial sums on strengthening the National Health System. But I heard the Prime Minister talk about PPP, a public-private partnership, which has nothing to do with partnership. It's not that the private sector is putting back on the ESS. It's that the public puts backs on the private. What's he really doing? It gives them the possibility, for the next decade it ensures secure profits, taking all the risk and all the cost of this public risk, and at the same time it continues this process of hiring workers to private individuals. Is that the strengthening of the National Health System you're proposing? Mr Stavoura, I hope you will answer me, but I am afraid that for these questions - because the questions are very specific - I will not get an answer, just as I have not been answered the previous time that I have asked you the questions. For example: What percentage of the deficit will trigger - in you - pension and wage reductions? And I'll tell you why you won't answer me. You will not answer me, because as long as the saving for the Greek economy was Mr Tsipras' pillow, the same saving room is the package of supposedly EUR 32 billion from the Recovery Fund. Let's put them down. First of all, there's no deal. You know that. And you talk hypothetically: if what the President of the Commission has proposed goes through, then it will be good. I understand that. But let's put them down as if it had passed, like it was a decision, which we know is a decision. First of all, it's not 32 billion. It's 22.6 billion. The rest is loans. The loans are out of the question, because we can also get loans from the markets, as you quite rightly said, because the markets have collapsed and we have negative interest rates everywhere now. We will not have negative interest rates, but the interest rates will be relatively low. There's ESS. That's not the point. The bankrupt doesn't help with loans. The Prime Minister said so, you say so too. That is why you supported the initial proposal by Merkel - Macron, which had spoken of EUR 500 billion only aid without loans. Yes, other than what Mrs Von der Lyen announced, only EUR 22.6 billion is aid for Greece. Of that, though, we have to take away some money, don't we? Why would this money of the European Commission be found? You, the Minister of Finance of Italy, Germany, France, will offer Brussels guarantees to borrow, lever the loans and then give you this money. Yes, but these must also be reimbursed, and Mrs Von der Lyen may have said that it will be done over time, through own resources, but when you read who is own resources, they are already the same resources that have already been praised and often unpaid, for the digital tax, for the carbon tax and so on. You can't count on them. There is another amount to be deducted to make your boxes as Minister of Finance. They are the rebates, the returns that Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands, Austria, may demand, may also be made to other countries. These rebates, as you know very well, I first taught Mrs Thatcher through this game, reduce the amounts that will come to your fund. A total of EUR 10 billion will have to be put aside through an amortisation to pay off what Greece owes to get the EUR 22.6 billion. It leaves us EUR 3.15 billion a year for 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024 and that for the best of cases. Because, together, we assumed that Mrs Von der Lyen's proposal has just been passed. It's not just the penthouse, it's the ceiling of the penthouse of the positive expectations. By the way, count - I imagine you have done so - that there are no EUR 500 billion in aid. It's 400 billion euros. Go to the Commission's accompanying text and do the souma. Where it says "22.6 for Greece" add 82 of Italy, do the souma and you will see that it is 400. The remaining 100 million euros have disappeared. And of the EUR 400 million, EUR 90 million is money - you know that - which has been redirected from other funds of the European Union. In other words, new aid is EUR 310 billion. This accompanying text is of great interest. I read it three times. The people of the Community, the technocrats of the Community, have also made certain specific forecasts concerning our country. I don't know, did you read it? Have you read the subparagraph on the provision of risk capital for European Union enterprises, first and, secondly, the capital relating to the planned reduction in investment? It says that capital losses within the European Union as a whole will be between EUR 720 and 1,220 billion. The Commission's text says that. I'm not saying it. As far as investment is concerned, it makes specific forecasts. The particular prediction for Greece is that in the construction sector - this is the Commission which speaks, does not talk about Mera25 - Germany will have 1% reduction in investment in the construction and construction sector, Italy 1.5%, Greece 3.5%. As far as capital goods and equipment are concerned, Germany will have -1.8%, Italy -2.5%, Greece -5%. We see, in other words, that according to the Commission - since you invoke it, I will never invoke the Commission, because in the last ten years its failures in the economic sector have competed with those of the International Monetary Fund for 2010-2015, but they are the ones who say it - our economy will be much more than the average. So we have two issues here. Before we applaud, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the former PASOK, the SYRIZA, for the decision of the European Union that has not yet come out - but even come out as it is - the Commission itself tells us that, as a whole, the European Union's operations will lose capital, whether earlier or not, of the order of 5% of GDP over the next two years, i.e. 1.5 trillion euros. And what are the funds in this package? It's 0.6% every year. Every year, 5% of funds will be lost, with 0.6% aid. Mr Stavoura, ladies and gentlemen, our assessment is that, with this data, even the European Commission's very preservatives, you will be faced in the next eighteen months with a government budget deficit - I will not even give it to you as a percentage, because if I give it to you as a percentage of GDP, I will have a double error in the assessment, i.e. I may also be mistaken in the assessment of GDP, but also in the state budget - around EUR 24 billion. If, as I said before, the German Government succeeds and reaches the 'zero' of the year, in 'black 0' and insists on 3% for you, we say that even show maximum flexibility that, as you know, is the favourite expression of the troika -'maximum flexibility', when you hear that, you have to hide under the table, because a bomb of austerity falls next to you - that means, essentially, a package of austerity for you in the next two, three years of 5 billion euros a year, while you will receive the best of EUR 3.15 billion. And you won't even collect them. Some companies will collect it. State the ‘FRAPORT’ previously. I have no doubt that the "FRAPORT" will take advantage of the Greek airports that have taken us, which have taken us in a colonial way. There is another positive, something useful, in this six-page text of the European Commission. For the first time after 2008, the official text of the European Commission speaks of multipliers more than one. In other words, it says that for every one of the euros they give Greece, Italy, the euro area in general, GDP is illiterating, increasing with more than one euro. You tell me, that's normal. There is no macro-economic manual that disputes this. Yes, but the troika, the European Commission, the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund, all these ten years now - you know - they were talking about a multiplier less than one. So at least there is a sign of a mere rationale in the Commission text. But that also shows a cynicism, because even though the multiplier is more than one - if the analysis I have done to you is the right one and tell me if it is wrong - then the austerity that will impose you will have a multiplier negative effect on the country's GDP. The recession crisis, Scottine will be strengthened and accelerated. But, more generally, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, PASOK, the New Democracy, we are basically talking about an enhanced NSRP. Why do you think an enhanced NSRP will make a difference now when the simple NSRP did not make it between 2010 and your days? Because the NRP was running and there were enough billions. The reason for this is that the austerity brought about by fiscal policies, the austerity that brings about the fact that there is no debt-sharing, Mr Staikora - and, if you like, we can discuss it, we can have an academic debate - and the fact that you guarantee all the Finance Ministers a European Commission debt, which then returns to the countries, is not a reciprocity, because we have not forgotten that you have done so in other cases too. You did so in the European Financial Stability Fund, i.e. you should all borrow together. The ESS is doing it, too. How's ESS? It publishes 'ESM Bonds', which is a joint lending. What does "common lending" mean? It means that the increase in our own deficit, Italy, Spain, that is to say the increase in debt is not recorded in national balance sheets, but is transferred restructured at European level. This is the Eurobond. So that doesn't exist. You will see that every paragraph, sub-paragraph and footnote will contain commitments that will do two things: First, they will commit all those who accept money from this fund that you will never ask again. It will be 'one off'. That's clear. The second thing that will bind you is that you should have foreseen in total as Eurogroup, as a summit, how and when this common debt will be repaid. That's not reciprocity. No serious federation, no fiscal union shall determine the ways and time of repayment of the common public debt. It is the very opposite of the reciprocity of what has happened. If I'm right - I wish I hadn't, I really wish it in my heart - when they come and force you to reduce the state deficit from an unthinkable -10%, -15%, to -3%, what are you going to do? Will you say 'yes to everything' again? State it right now. 'We believe that Europeanism requires saying 'yes' to all'. Say it. We believe that Europeanism means not saying 'yes' in any way, but saying 'no', to veto, as the Dutch Minister for Finance did. As Mr. Hookstra vetoed, you too should exercise. That is our view. We might be wrong. Tell us yours. Tell us what you'll do when they ask you for a -10%, one -15%, take it to -3%. Ladies and gentlemen, to close - the people have been so tired of bad predictions like those I have made here, but also with false words, the big ones with which you are mocking their ears, talking about the billions, the fat that comes. They have begun, despite fatigue, to understand that they cannot trust a government that fails even to predict the past. It is not possible for Mr Mitsotakis now to say that the country was inclined - these were his words - on a development path before the virus hit us. But can you say that? You know - you have your excuses - that in October, November, December, the country's total GDP was EUR 274 million lower than the corresponding period of 2018. You know very well, because your ministry has taken it out at the forum, it has been made public, it said it clearly, that Genarris and Flevaris, months that the Prime Minister saw them as excellent, you had a lack of budgetary targets of 37%, not of 3.7%. The citizens cannot afford, Minister, the heavy words. They're suffocating with you guys at SYRIZA. You cannot go out and applaud this alibi for the fifth memorandum that comes not only for our country but also for the other peoples of Europe. Citizens don't want to hear lies, they don't want to hear miserable predictions. Citizens demand from you - because you are in government - to protect them. Tell the nurses and doctors they won't return to the contractor next year, but they will be appointed. Tell the people of "LARCO" that they won't be found in August on the road. Tell our fellow people out there who will not have tourism this year - I may still prove myself wrong, but they won't have - that you will not inhibit and postpone taxes, that you will make them tax cuts, because the tax suspensions will not help the bankrupt. If you tell him "you'll give it all to me in five months" and he doesn't have customers for five months, you dismantled him, he's also got a kook in time if you're being stolen." You have no right over medium-term public revenues not to make haircuts. The haircuts today, right now, are an investment to keep public revenues at a certain level in the future. Citizens want protection. You won't. Protect contractors from hired workers. You protect the predators. You are still not going to answer me about 'HERAKLI'. I'm sure you won't answer. You're going to give it to the predators? These will be the ones you will protect. That is why we are here to propose hopeful solutions. Next week, we will put forward a public debate - I am simply saying it briefly - an integrated proposal for a law with specific elements, and the number of all the advances to be abolished. Is it possible to reduce the tax advance? How one will pay tax this year on the basis of the revenues of 2019 for 2021, revenues of 2019 that are not available this year. No tax advance, Mr. Stakoura. Zero. No 50, 40, 30. Zero. It had to be zero in the first place. But now it's necessary. We'll talk about tax cuts, contributions and loans. We will talk about how we will legislate the abolition of HARAKEL and the establishment of the public private debt management company, which I had proposed since 2015. We will propose concrete measures for the banks and their public control, as their recapitalisation will be absolutely certain. We will talk with very specific legal and economic elements about the conversion of HDIDE to a real development bank, which uses public property not to sell it, but as a guarantee to create investment flows towards public property and the private sector. We will talk about the public digital payment system which will give you financial breaths and cheap transactions for the citizens. Of course, we will continue to talk about the need for a veto within the Eurogroup and at the summit, which is the only one that can change the course of this European Union, which is moving rapidly towards degradation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening from me. Take advantage of this little interruption to give you a little briefing. That we've gone a long way. Mrs. Iatridis has been in the room since 13.00 and has not even spoken and as the situation goes, she will speak around 19.00. I would like to inform you that Mr Gregoriadis and Mr Heitas help me put one, two Members in between. There are forty speakers registered and no one has spoken. Please help. The cause of evil is the leaders who spoke twice as much as the ministers. I recognize that. After the verb "I love you" the most beautiful verb is "help". You should know that. So help me. Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. I, too, start with the European issue. The president of Mera25 put it, too, and the Secretary-General of the JRC put it. They said SYRIZA is cheering, saying it's a terrible solution. None of this is true. And I and Mr. Tsipras said it was a pleasant surprise. Obviously, we still don't know the final version. There are also gray zones, how much it will be in subsidies, how much it will be in loans, whether there will be heretics. All this is in the air. The question and the question is: Does it make some ruptures with the past? Are there any raisins? So that a piece will be in subsidies and not in loans is in the positive direction? That he adds money not just to the budget but to the resources available? Barofakis isn't right. It's not a reciprocity. That's obvious. But it has elements of reciprocating how these debts are repaid. It was an unfortunate comparison with the ESM. My main question, both to Mr Koutsouba and to Mr Varoufakis, is how you make a policy when you propose solutions that you do not like in the sense that they are not the ones you would suggest and if you can take them as a raisin for a different Europe. That's the question. Are there any raisins now that we can take advantage of them? And because the JRC's rapporteur is here, I should like to say it in terms of marxist terms. If we accept that the State in capitalism is the collective capitalist, which is often forced into a crisis to take measures which may not be as convenient as one company or another, but which are all of a step in the right direction, it may not suit one country, but the other country, but it is generally necessary for the reproduction of capital, it does so without any cost, when it is forced to take that direction. Or is it because it has to bring about a compromise between a big business with another big business or between one country and another, it opens up streets that a left who knows what he means to hegemony and ideology, which knows he needs to make alliances, which knows that the world of the people and the middle layers are not all convinced of a different path, but wants to fight and therefore these alliances need to exploit them? Because you can say here and it's easy to say: if the debt issue is not solved, there's nothing going on. It does not, however, give you any direction in how you build alliances with people who are not convinced of it, but want to take advantage of this note to make social policy, investment policy, public health policy. And you might come here and say, there's nothing going on if we don't have socialism. You still don't give direction to people who want a different health system, a different investment policy, a new public relationship, who want a social part of production. That's how allegiances are built, if there's raisins. Saying here that there is nothing different is not right. We will see what the final outcome will be, but the better the outcome, the weaker the government's position on the criticism of "We Stay Upright II". Because if the most optimistic, yours, for the final version and less the optimistic my own - but which I hope is better - then it is very important that we do not have a car that has stopped, but a car that has less speed and therefore, we must be able to push it more easily when the new programme comes. So the criticism we are making is very strong, especially now, that is, a bridge programme that goes to the new era - I do not remember if it was the third phase, I have now confused, or the fourth phase you said, Mr Staikora - in the next phase, that is after 2021. It is extremely important to reduce - as far as possible - the recession this year, so that we can take advantage of new opportunities. Of course, we'll disagree. Mr Koutsoubas says 'yes, but this money will go to capital'. No, there's some discretion about how this money is spent. It is a question of fighting how they are spent, how they are spent and in what areas. And that's why we don't like various things that you do, because you don't prepare the ground so you can take advantage of the next phase. Because - Mr Varoufakis said so well - when you have businesses that will then have many loans at the end and have no income, they do not have a turnover before they arrive at it, they will have to pay, pay back new obligations and obligations in the period they did not work. When you have seasonal workers, who used to get 800 euros over 12 months, but that was the result of an eight-month job in a hotel, in the focus, and now you only pay them for the summer, when it's over in the summer, you may have put them - and rightly - on the unemployment benefit now, but in the end they will still be out of place and will not be able to live for the next time in November, in December, in December, in Genarris, as they were able to work these eight months. And you ask us: 'Where will we get the money?' Mr Stavura, I will not answer you this time because you have devalued your speech on the channels. We've got tragedy cases now. We have channels to explain the answer to my answer that no one knows. No one and you were constantly invited - the Greek people were not able to faint you, well, you are not like Mr Georgiadis, but both of you did not have time for the Greek people to disfellowship you - you are constantly on the channels and answer my answer, which no one knows, does not know the argument. You replied to me again on the NSRF, and I have answered you about the NSRF how to bring the money forward, because we have a different viewpoint. You have not responded, you have just said what you are doing about the ESDP. As if we haven't spoken, as if we haven't explained our position, you keep going. If you did not want to deceive the House, you could give me a concrete answer because we are wrong that many of the programmes and businesses can be financed by the NSRP and, furthermore, that they can bring more money forward with a redistribution. You didn't answer. But you don't have to answer, because no channel asks you any difficult questions, 'but Mr. Chakalotos said that, but Mr....' and answer it. You say what you've prepared and done. This harms the government, because it makes you less powerful, because you are not obliged to answer. I'm going to health now. Unfortunately, Mr. Spiritual is not here to correct me. He's an orthopaedic, you know. I've had a shoulder impact syndrome lately. It's not exactly frozen shoulder. I mean, when the shoulder's frozen, you take it to a point, it sticks and you can't go any more. The impact syndrome is that it hurts, sticks, and breaks. I think your Prime Minister has an impact syndrome. So far he has told us that he is in favour of public health, what is important in health, how it must all be universal for all, for doctors and what heroes they are. It has been a little stuck in an anti-neoliberal direction, but fortunately, Mr Voridis - and I see that you will agree with this retreat - it has been undone and returned to the right direction, which tells us that there is the public pillar, but there is also the private pillar. We did not see this private pillar, of course, in great help to this whole crisis. He was absent - I think - but here we are. Says the Prime Minister: 'But why not get equipment from the private sector'? Because you want both medical and nursing and diagnostic activities to return the private sector to the core of the public sector. Now I'm going to answer why we shouldn't get the equipment from the private sector. Is that the entrepreneurship you imagine? So this isn't state-owned capitalism? I mean, we're getting equipment from the private people who have certain work to do. What's the risk these private people take? You don't believe in the public sector. You never believed in the public sector, you do not now believe in the public sector. I am pleased that Mr Vorides is swinging, because I have always said he is honest in this and does not get into deceit, that we are all together and we are central and we want the public sector as well. Thank you, and it's a good thing you're here. Two or three other things. We spend the summer that there is no such thing as the bankers, that only bank administrations can sue the bankers. It's something the troika asked us to do. We didn't accept it. But you, who want to be played by the troika, said that in a recent post - you did this. Then you gave some time-limits to all matters of justice, because there is the coronary. That makes sense. You are now bringing about a change in the scope of these extensions of time, apart from the question of bankers. I'm not a suspicious man, I'm not a cynical man, but isn't it a little strange that the extensions of deadlines are correct in all areas, but not in the banking system? You have not told us very clearly what you are doing and what you propose to do about the first residence. I read in the institutional report that you have committed yourself, after this extension, to'sale and begging back', that is to say, people will lose their home, get it and pay for the person who wants to stay at home. Is that your policy? Isn't that your policy? Is this going to help the recovery and the bridge - to return to the original part of my speech - to the new program you think, with the phase three or four that you said? Do you have a seat for this? You promised a comprehensive plan for all the issues. That's not what we see either. You put us in a very difficult position. It is clear that there will also be positive things within the two MDGs, that there will be issues that are totally 'according to' or 'yes' or 'no', but unfortunately we would like to do better'. We cannot have this debate. We have to vote together. We can't do that. It is also a devaluation of democracy and dialogue, because these are issues which are extremely different from each other. They have nothing to do with each other, and it is obvious that someone would agree to KINAL, to someone we would agree, to someone we would be against. We don't have that possibility. It is another 'click' in the devaluation of public dialogue and there is no excuse for that. I do not see why there should be so many articles that we should vote against en bloc. So we're going to vote against both MDGs. Where we can diversify ourselves, which are the other amendments which we can vote on one, we will have a specific position which our speakers and our rapporteur will explain at the end. I think that Greece and the south are in a difficult position in general and come difficult days.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u203	Please conclude, because I am in a difficult position too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u204	Two final phrases. And financially and budgetaryly, together with the rest of the countries, we will have a problem. That means - firstly - that you must be more open to dialogue. Listen, do not repeat things where we have answered. It may be wrong, but you must say about the mistake, not what you said at first, because it is actually worse than what you need when you are not involved in a debate covered by the media. But the dominant thing is not, because it's not really in your DNA, it's not the public domain, it's not changing the standard. You haven't learned anything since the 2009 crisis. I'm afraid you're not learning anything from today's crisis. But the other powers don't have that alibi. The other forces cannot stand and say nothing about what we can do for a different route. There is a very wide scope in both employment and health and investment issues, which must be a different perspective. I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: the intervention that has been made, that nothing is done unless we resolve the debt issue, there is nothing to be done if there is no socialism, it does not help the people that you want to represent. To have whatever disagreements you want, but to be able to discuss on a basis of what needs are, because this government cannot and does not want to solve these needs, because it has very different priorities and there are many articles in both MDGs that systematically indicate what these priorities are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u207	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u208	As far as Mr Varoufakis is concerned, because he left - I am sorry, but I did not want to interrupt my colleagues - no veto was carried out at Eurogroup, no veto was carried out by a Dutch Minister for Finance that he mentioned. This Decision is addressed to the Federal Republic of Germany. I've filed it. I'm filing it again. Private consumption in the fourth quarter of 2019 is higher than the fourth quarter of 2008, gross fixed capital formation, i.e. investments, higher than the fourth quarter of 2007. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as the reference he made to the specific programmes in Europe is concerned, and whether these will be for the benefit of the country because of the greater appreciation of the recession on the part of Europe, I am tabling the decision on 'SURE' in the Minutes. 'SURE' will be an important indicator of safety for workers in the most affected economies, according to Europe's estimates. We therefore expect and demand more resources. Finally, for Mr Varoufakis, the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Skylakakis, will answer in detail. From 30 April 2020, as we were due as a member of the European Union, we tabled our programme in Europe with concrete elements, both for the recession, both for the public debt and for the deficit. Since April 30th, nothing has changed. We keep saying the same thing. Finally, I would like to say to Mr Tsakalotos that, to your great disappointment, I have not been asked by the channels for your views. As you said, rather in the hole of your speech, they don't even know what you're saying. You said that 'they do not know how to ask me'. So you're probably not being watched. But I respond to your Facebook posts every day and try to be as good as possible to criticism as possible. I like dialogue. It has been proven many times here that I am coming to the House, in contrast to the previous five years, and I am giving answers, facts, and I am tabling the Minutes. Today I spoke with fifteen figures. Fifteen figures in favour of one programme, where we agree and where we disagree. You didn't answer one. The main thing is that you have not answered what the recession is according to your estimates. In order to be able to assess your programme, there must be some assumptions. Tell us at last. Three months, you don't say that. What is the country's recession due to the current government's policy? We're asking for a clue. Mr. Varoufakis said so. He said more than 15 percent. We'll assess whether it'll be 15%. How much do you think? You've made a program and you don't have one clue. All you have said in your interview is that it is not easy to make assessments of the magnitude of the recession. It is easy for all homes, for other political parties, for European institutions, but it is not easy for you alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, too. I'll tell the show so we don't have any misunderstandings and you don't come to the Chair and you change them. After Mr. Loverdos, the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will be speaking for two minutes, then the Minister for Development and Investment for two minutes and Mr. Vorides, the Minister for Rural Development and Food, for two minutes. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u210	Mr President, I am not used to speaking as a parliamentary representative to the words of others who belong to the Opposition with us, because I prefer - and that is my duty - to refer to the government. That's what I'm gonna do with one parentheses. I am a parliamentary representative here throughout the pandemic phase. I didn't miss any meeting. I heard all the political leaders when they took the floor and held back, among other things, the President of Mera25 to propose that the government veto a Eurogroup a month and a half ago, because it did not exercise it, its action was murderous for the Greek economy and the Greek society. I wonder now, after recent developments, how he is dealing with those thoughts and advice, because the debate at that time would be about taking initiatives on the part of the European Union and the Eurozone because of a pandemic. He proposed that Greece clash at that particular moment. After so many weeks, does he think that his proposal is correct? He's a leader of a political party. Six are the political parties of the House. Second, I noticed him. I only missed two minutes from the Chamber. If I understand him correctly, he thinks the program is damaging. Does it consider the amount that comes to Greece harmful? Does he consider it detrimental to the allocation of 1/3s that are loans and 2/3s that are grantable? What does he think is harmful? Would it have been preferable that this amount had not been given? It was supposed that the European Union did not take any initiatives to criticise all parties in opposition in this Chamber. Now there has been an initiative. A proposal, of course. We are very anxiously awaiting the final choice and decision, although because it is under Macron and Merkel initiatives, I think that the final result from the Commission proposal will not be far away. It is eccentric paradoxical to say that this money will create problems and costs and not benefit. I'll come to that right after. However, I would like to say to the House that we have a draft law by which two acts of legislation are ratified, one hundred and twenty articles supplemented with another fifty, with other provisions. We have two amendments with seventeen articles. Yesterday, on Thursday, seven more articles with another amendment came in. A total of ninety-four and eleven now, a few hours ago, for work. A total of two hundred five. A parliamentary representative cannot be placed at the outset. There's no beginning, there's no end. A broom is this, a legislative broom. And good legislative acts, but after the rest of the issues have to do with the normal life of the place and they can't come that way. It is a bad way of legislating which, in our view, shows that there is no plan. I understand the fragmentary arrangements. It was a pandemic, a big problem for the Greek economy, the Greek society. The second part of the regulation is the rule. Understood. We didn't say no. But for the rest of the issues, distraction is not a plan. It's a walk by seeing and doing. I doubt what the Minister for Finance has said to me that the government has a plan and is on the basis of this. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union on economic issues may be slow, but with the experience of decades we have, it is finally acting. It's like a boat that hard starts for a course, but if it starts, it doesn't stop. And I think that we have paid her as a country, and especially as a government in 2009-2010, when it took the European Union months to react to the problems of the economic crisis that we were hit unrelentingly, but other countries of the European Union also hit us. Mr President, because I am speaking, I want a little quiet on my right. It is not right for a parliamentary representative to speak and hear voices. It's not good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u211	Yes, of course. You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u212	That's where it went faster, though. It did not go as in 2009-2010, but in this Chamber we wondered: "Would they do anything?" It was the subject of our criticism that they were delayed. Luckily, it wasn't big. In the context of these searches, the debate on Mera25's proposal to the government to veto because the Eurobond was not issued. Of course, doubling of resources provides for the very ambitious programme of the European Union's own resources. The first thing you think about if you hear 'own resources' in the European Union is VAT. You say: 'There will be some money for the European Union, so that in addition to the loans it will take as the Union to channel them?'. Fortunately, the newspaper report on this large programme, which is still in the rare, provides sources of direct resources that are not VAT. It is not indirect taxation, that is. That sounds positive. It remains to be seen, and it remains to be seen what resources will be spent on the European Union, in other words, the own resources, which concern all of us, but also Greece within them. For us, a sum of 42 billion is foreseen. If you take away the EUR 10 billion which is own resources, that is to say, a programme of 32 billion. One cannot say what has been said in this Chamber, namely that it is bad for the country, that it is negative for the country, that the final statement will be negative. Thoughts can of course be made about how to make use of, thoughts can be made, by drawing on and experience from the Community support frameworks that were not all and fully successful. But we must say that we have been waiting, at last, for this programme has been decided, proposed at least and in a few days' time we will have the decision. It is great, it is greater than all European projects, and the Bank of Greece must compare it to the Marshall project, after making the money and the items provided to Greece project. It seems a lot bigger than the Marshall plan. It is a positive development, a very positive development, which shows that in the European Union something is finally moving. We have an experience of these months of the crisis, which pandemic has brought to the economy. The banks, through which the Fund is "settled" 1 and shortly the second such programme, do not operate for the benefit of the economy because they do not operate for the benefit of those in need and who are not a zombie. Those who do not owe tax credit, those who do not even owe the insurance funds, those who have not delayed any instalments before March of the pandemic and seek loans and get nothing. They are asked for guarantees, guarantees, advances, to deposit money as a guarantee of the loan they receive. My complaints come from all over Greece. The latter was from Pieria, where at a branch of an ambitious borrower asked for 30 thousand euros and said: "But, the government says that if I don't owe it, I can borrow it." The answer was: "Go to the government to borrow." These are the answers they give. It sounds like two observatories will be created, one observatories at the Bank of Greece and one observatories, we have heard, within the Ministry of Development. We've heard that too. An Observatory, because I have experience of other observatorys, if I look without the Minister or the Bank of Greece being able to react, is an observatory for reporting, but the reaction - if there is any knowledge of who it is and how they think it - can make the observatory very useful. I read yesterday in the newspaper financial columns that for the Grant Fund, the Fund of 3, 14 banks have shown interest, the four systemic and ten other smaller, non-systemic banks. A sanction - I imagine - would be excluded from these programmes and from that future, the banking agency that works inhibiting the recession. Others say: "State a bank". I don't think the steep moves can agree to me. The warnings of a government that wants to help, the establishment of observatories and the Bank of Greece and the Ministry of Development and the imposition of sanctions on the level "You don't help? You're out of the programs, you're out of the state guarantee programs, you're out of the 22 billion program, or how much they will be, which will be channelled to the areas we hear, to health, the environment and green development, and to the rest that our country needs. If there is no such intervention, I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we will have a reason in the Chamber, Coupling - Opposition, confrontation between us, but in practice the citizen who listens and thinks something is happening will understand in his mind that nothing is going on at all. And you say: 'Don't you think it would be a solution to decentralize the signature of the bank clerk?'. Does he not sign, grant a loan, why is he afraid of everything that happened over the previous government, the persecutions, the troubles each employee's family had? The answer we get from the more experienced than me is that it's not the major. The major thing is that the bad bank is not created and to create the bad bank, the House is responsible. The government must bring forward a proposal here and we must vote on it. It was proposed by the Governor of the Bank of Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, when Mrs Gennimata and Mr Constantinople proposed this four years ago, we were told by populists that we were not. We're just the opposite. It was, however, a thought and a proposal in the rares, which, in the course of time, proved not only appropriate, but also absolutely necessary, because, as Mr Stournaras told us, when he informed the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs, the existence of red loans to the banks is the biggest blocking factor in their operation in favour of the market and in favour of the citizens, because we are now talking about citizens. We cannot glorify small and medium-sized enterprises and in practice leave them unprotected. So he told us that the banks say 'I have 70 billion red, I will add 15 more'. That reasoning keeps them. How will they be released from this very difficult situation? With the plan "HERAKLIS"? We hear that Mr. Zavvos, who is the father of the project "HRAKLIS", is not positive for the establishment of bad bank. But what does the government say? And in a further briefing that Mr Zavvos must make on the course of the project 'HRAKLIS', he will raise the matter directly from us: 'What do you say about it, which appears to be a cumulative solution for the market, for society, for Greece, which is called upon to pay for its account successful in dealing with the pandemic?' Mr President, the parties' leaders have spoken for too long. You will allow me, too, to be here and speak to Mrs Gennama for a few more minutes to close my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u213	I'll give you your dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u214	I would like to refer to a number of specific issues. The first specific issue - Mr Poulas said, we all call it the speaker of the Change Movement - is about the heavy and unhealthy professions and nurses. How good words the whole of Greece says, how good words all the ministers say, how glorious they are, but in heavy and unhealthy they have not been incorporated. I don't have time. I have developed this with too many words at previous meetings. Mr Minister for Labour, you have brought the 60% amendment. We understand that and I very much want to hear from you. This whole plan of yours, we understand, half-work, half-wage. And if that's wrong with you, with your speech, you need to overthrow it. Mr Mulkiotis will take the floor on our behalf, and he will analyse our position, because I do not have time. Last item: Minister of Development, what about lawyers? There's no social mattress that you've made more fun of as a government. You have done so - and I have stressed - many efforts that I have said, even though they oppose the government and ultimately two and a half months later, everyone complains that you do not react at all as a government. Do you have anything to say? At times the government has promised them through us that it is dealing with them as with the rest of the citizens. And I've told you here that for some of us lawyers we have and other incomes, we don't care about these lawyers who have high incomes. We care about those of the 200 euros of a show being judged their week. What's he got to do with them? Nothing. I'm hanging up. Mr President, I read on Monday about Article 69 of the Act - as it was at the time - I do not know how it was now numbered - on the issue of the legislative initiative of the Ministry of Tourism for the award of these summary procedures to a company to view Greece, by making advertising abroad for the Greek tourism product, for our country, for the brand name of Mrs. Yes, sir. I was expecting a change following the presentation of the opinion of the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority, which tells you that this provision by Mr Theocharis appears to have raised important issues of compatibility with EU law to the extent that it does not comply with the fundamental rules and general principles of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in particular the principles of equal treatment and non-discrimination, and the resulting obligation of transparency. What's that? The Minister of Tourism is missing throughout this phase of the crisis. He's been talking lately. The tourist regions of the country are upset by these zones they went to do. It is the Minister who has in his wallet one of the most important sources of production of Gross Domestic Product in the tertiary sector and other than the draft law that he has brought to Parliament, we do not know what he says per phase of dealing with the pandemic that we are going through. And is that his legislative initiative? After upsetting the country with the zones, does it have a legislative initiative for two - three articles, including that? This has been discussed very negatively in the public debate and the government needs to see it a few hours before the parliamentary majority is called upon to vote, because we are not voting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u215	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u216	Excuse me, Mrs. Fotio, but for Mr. Tsakalotus you did not protest. It's in the same minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u217	Evil will remain, my colleague. It's okay. Evil will stay. You did not protest against others who spoke for twenty - five and thirty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u219	I am a parliamentary representative and I speak on behalf of Mrs Gennimata and you will listen to me. If you don't like it, there's it outside.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u220	Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u221	Mr. Loverdo, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u222	I conclude with this. He said, Mr. Stagioras, making the wrong thing, of course, that he took an initiative for the Greek Defence Industry, while no other party had taken and no one in the House had spoken. He's wrongful of his argument. We, four MPs, Mr Kegeroglou, Mr Mulkiotes, Mr Poulas and I tabled an amendment on 20 May to this effect - an addition to the problems of workers in the ODA. In fact, we were the only party that, at the closed-door meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, we raised defence-related issues and the issue of depriving the Ministry of Defence from the Ministry of Finance on defence-related issues. We have raised this very strongly. Our amendment is here. I wonder why the government is making such a mistake. And indeed, we are the only party that in the five years SYRIZA and ANEL did the matter for both NSAs and the Greek Defence Industry. In Article 7, however, you have a two-page regulation, which deals with specific matters relating to the assistance of ODA staff, which is inconsistent with a text of a law which says that it will apply for two months until the ministerial decision is adopted, and that is the ministerial decision within the law. And you've got the outsiders too, because they're producing injustices from here. I don't think you have a plan. I repeat, seeing and doing so again, and leaving too many serious issues outside, topics for which the parties are responsible for a role of reporter, to record what is going on in practice, to bring you to the House, to invite you to fill in. For example, with Article 5(2) of the draft law, in relation to the aid given to those who have to pay rent and the support of the owners, you left the anonymous real estate investment companies outside. And you need to fill in Article 5(2). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have completed. But if I were told to fill in the positions of the Change Movement with two arguments, the first is that the government does not appear with a plan. We are rather waiting for it with the new year's budget, where we will also have a picture of how the programme coming from the European Union is to be launched, involving grants and loans. If you then continue to legislate in this way, we will have the full proof that we have to arrive in October, to understand how the country will face the recession that is a consequence of the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, too. The Minister for Development and Investment Mr Adonis Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u224	Mrs. Fotou, Mr. Loverdo, please. The Minister's talking. Go closer, tell them. Now will you solve them? It's not Mr. Loverdos' fault. I gave him the floor. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u225	We want to know whether Members will speak and when, Mr President. We need to know the schedule.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u226	You'll come upstairs. You're coming. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President. Two quick answers will be given, and then I will say about the amendments I have here. One is directed to Mr Tsakalotos, who said that we have not exploited the resources of the NRP with the new regulations that are allowed to be used, etc. He's wrong. All the programmes that the Ministry of Development has made, and the interest subsidy for the business loans and TEPIX II, and now the great guarantee for COVID -19 that is starting next week and, in general, for the programmes we have announced, it is with the money of the NSRF that we have used with the permission of the European authorities, on the basis of the new regulations due to COVID -19. So, what I said, we did. In fact, I will say that to the Minutes of the House, Mr President. Yesterday, we had a teleconference with the Association of Regions of Greece. And I would like to thank each individual region and each regional director and their President, Mr Djijkostas, because all the regions of the country have contributed to the treatment of COVID -19, giving a lot of money from the MAGPs, from the regional programmes of the ESDP, to support these financial instruments and to support entrepreneurship in Greece. I want to turn now to Mr. Loverdo. Mr President, you have raised a very serious issue, the question of how the money will be given. The liquidity observatory, drawn up in the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Development through the General Secretariat of Private Debts and the Bank of Greece, and in cooperation between the two, two agencies are created, but one monitoring. Because it is independent the Bank of Greece. It's just so we can see where the money is going. You know that under European regulations you cannot legally intervene with the banks. That would be disastrous. But I must tell you, because you have said so and give me the opportunity for the banks to hear it too. Next week begins the great guarantee fund, which will be up to 7 billion and we see. If we need extra, we'll increase it. We'll watch for the first thirty days how the banks give the money. Each bank has been requested and we sign contracts together, of development and of each bank, for the money that is entitled to the part of the guarantees. If, after thirty days, we see that some banks stay too far behind and some other banks "run" too much, we will be rewarded by redistribution of the "run" resources and we will punish those who go slowly and lose money if they do not do their job well. That's the answer. We're making the tools to get the money to business and to live. That is our political decision. And we will, Mr President, be very strict on that. And I agree with what you said. I wish everyone could make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u228	Tell us about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u229	With regard to the amendments, the first is something very simple, it is the abolition of the Law on the approval of the Strategic Investments Council, because, on the basis of the Staff State, these Councils are now acting by means of the Ministerial Council, and so, since the new Act by means of a Ministerial Council makes the relevant Interministerial Act, but also at the level of the Secretary-General, the Committee on Strategic Investments is abolished, the article of the previous law which provides for it to be established by law. It is now by act of the Ministerial Council. The second one - and I read it precisely because it is the one with political stakes and I do not want it to appear that I said it in a hurry - is this paragraph (b) of paragraph 1a of Article 16 of Law 4177/2013. It is the law laying down in which areas shops can be opened on Sundays from May to October. The previous law wrote “in areas of the Municipality of Piraeus of the Regional Section of the South Athens, the historic center of Thessaloniki, as defined in the Ministerial Decision of the Ministry of Thessaloniki, as well as in the area around the International Airport of Athens” - until that was the previous - and the business park of Gialos - Agios Dimitrios - Pyrgos is added to the Municipality of Spatia of Attica, as defined in the decision of the ITHO of the Law. In other words, we have added the phrase "and the Business Park Gialos - Agios Dimitrios..." etc. Why is that? It's a familiar matter. A ministerial decision has been issued twice in the past, it has been challenged by the courts, where legislative powers are called into question. Since, therefore, they question the legislative authority of the Ministerial Decision, we abolish the ministerial decision and legislate by the Greek Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u230	Thank you very much, Minister. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Brutsi, has the floor to support his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u231	I'll make my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u232	No ministers talks are scheduled! You've sent us a process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u233	The amendment will speak. You have the floor for five minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u234	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand the reaction of SYRIZA. Consider that at the moment the Minister for Labour does not want to talk about a critical, very important amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u235	They didn't say that. It's about time they said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u236	For the time, of course. It is an amendment that SYRIZA should seek, as KINAL requested, before, to hear what we are actually bringing to the vote. Unless you've understood and agreed. Because in the end you will not vote and you will not know why you are not voting and will do the same thing again for reasons of party patriotism. Anyway, I'm starting to unfold the thread from the beginning. Ladies and gentlemen, this unprecedented crisis because of the pandemic has triggered the government, which has shown reflexively, sensitivity, speedy, unprecedented, but, above all, has made human health a top priority. And that's what we did. Today it is a good example for our country, because at the first start we have shown that the objective we have set for protecting people's health has been achieved. But that's not all. It was also the objectives which we set out in our policies for social cohesion, to address the problems that have been posed in the labour market and in the problems of businesses. Yes, we have succeeded in this, as much as one can say it has succeeded, always compared to the great problem that was created. We closed the first time perimeter, which is completed, ends at the end of May. In this first time perimeter, we have taken tax, financial, business liquidity, employee support, a special purpose allowance. All of this had a common denominator. The common denominator was the maintenance clause, the ban on redundancies. This whole framework has also been based on the state, which has given all workers, either on companies that have been closed by administrative order or on companies that have been affected by the SADC, full insurance cover. So we closed the first cycle dangerous with the first big step taken by our government. Now, since June 1st, the second time perimeter begins. They open the shops, open the food business, slowly open all shops and enter a second time perimeter, on which the government is again prepared, with a plan, to refocus man. The last time there have been inaccurate, questionable, how we will stand in the world of tourism, in the world that worked in hotels, what we will do with all this world, the unemployed, the people who will not work this year. Questions have been raised today by the government with this amendment, which is not a simple amendment, which is a whole framework of actions and actions, to support all workers who are at risk because of their pandemic. I would therefore like to start by saying that our first decision is that the whole part concerning tourism and foodism has the right to suspend for July. The part of tourism, as a whole, has a right of suspension and June and July. Especially tourist businesses, the world of tourist accommodation, is for four months June, July, August and September. As Christos Stakoras said before, with our special airport intervention, we give a special opportunity to this particular world, most affected by everyone, until the end of the year. This is the first thing we describe to understand each other how we develop the framework of our action. The second is what we're doing. What we are doing now has been said, you have heard it from the media. It is the so-called 'Cooperation' programme, which is based on the 'SURE' programme. The aim is to get EUR 1.4 billion. Our aim will be to draw as many resources as possible. Why? Because, starting on 1 June, all the companies in the country, which will have a loss of turnover, as described in the amendment, will be able to enter this mechanism. What's that mechanism doing? The mechanism of "COMPANY" very simply comes in and wherever there is a business that is ready to close, it is ready for the businessman, from the employer, to come in and we say to him: "No, don't put a lock on it, don't shut it down. The state's next door, it supports you. Keep the jobs. We will support, as a state, a large part of the wage costs." And how do we do that? All enterprises to be integrated into the ‘Cooperation’ programme will have the possibility of up to 50%, if they consider it necessary, of working hours of their human resources. But, Mr Loverdo, - and this is not half-time, half-wages, half-wages - the state comes and makes up 60% of any loss of the worker in his wages and, at the same time, we come and cover, that is, the professional, that is, all insurance contributions to the worker's nominal wage. Any dismissal or change in the working relationship of the worker's contract, and at the same time, this programme, enables a worker who will be restricted to the particulars concerned to have an income of 83.5% to 100% and not 50% if it goes to 50% reduction in the worker's working hours. So we have a very good mechanism that actually supports the worker's income, and this is really an unprecedented tool in our country, which is the first to support work effectively and effectively and not to enter into the logic of unemployment benefits. That's the big difference. From 83.5% to 100% is the replacement of the employee's income. The question now is what is going on with tourism and, more specifically, the hotels you are interested in and much has been said. In the context of the amendment, there is a specific framework of action which, on the basis of Law 1346/1983, requires that workers be absorbed, which was also sought by the world of tourism, that is, the hotels. And they're not very few, Mr. Papapas and Mrs. Iatridis, who are from tourist areas. It's eighty thousand. It's a world that really fought. And we're covering this world and putting the re-entry clause on 1 June. The whole world is repeated when the businessman enters the process of opening or not opening his hotel. He will be reinstated, suspended for as long as the employer believes, four months we give him the opportunity. But at the moment when the hotel starts to operate, percentage will also make absorption. If, for example, we have the hotel to occupy a daily 20% room will absorb 1/3, in full 50% will take 2/3 and in case 80% and over 100%. These are interventions that support the worker! These are interventions that SYRIZA has been saying things awkward and cheating on the world!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u237	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u238	Anyway, for the world that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u239	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u240	There are now thousands of people listening to tourism who are struggling to know what we are doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u241	Mrs. Fotio, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u242	So the rest of the world, who's...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u243	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u244	The world, which is suspended from work, and will not be absorbed by hotel owners....
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u245	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u246	... will enjoy a special purpose allowance of EUR 534 plus insurance contributions to the amount of this allowance. We therefore fully cover the whole world at the base of Law 1346/1983. Eighty thousand people for the four months of this period have full government coverage. Two...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u247	Is there more?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u248	...a question, born for the world of food and tourism that does not enter the re-entry process. This world is forty thousand, Mr President, and today it is watching the House to see what we are doing. So this world doesn't stay out of protection. It comes into a special environment, we support it, since it is not compulsory for it to be re-entered, and we enable it to receive an allowance, such as the last allowance that it received as extraordinary compensation from the OAED. For the rest, however, - and in order to stimulate their reintegration - we are giving the opportunity to employers and businesses who will receive from this 'basket' of workers - forty thousand - in their work for full coverage of employers' contributions to part-time employment. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So here is what policies are to support these workers as well, a total of hundred and twenty thousand. Over the past period, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a very strong criticism from SYRIZA of the provision of the legislative act of 20 March on Article 9 on rotation of employment, the well-known rotation which has been conquered by SYRIZA. I was there, too, saying that it is urgent, temporary, necessary measures to support jobs. Nothing will be left the next day, if and if we come out of the crisis slowly. So here is who is trustworthy and consistent in practice, in the specific provision that we have tabled. The legislative act of 20 March, Article 9 of the rotation, shall be repealed on 15 June. We are abolishing it and now going clearly with the new framework, the framework of the 'cooperation' mechanism. These are our policies, that is our attitude.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u249	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. I just want to close with something that I think is necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u251	One sentence. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u252	The agricultural issues will be developed by Mr Voridis, the provisions that we have incorporated. Once again, it is very favourable to the primary sector. Ladies and gentlemen, no one says we can make miracles. We are, however, a government that is pragmatic and responsible. We don't stay inert, nor cross our hands. We are making use of the last euro to support the world of work and we will do so by the end of the day. And I am sure that in 2021 we will win the lost ground and all together - state, businesses and workers - we will be able to see the future with optimism and hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u254	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u255	You're not a parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u256	Mr President, we want to ask about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u257	Here you go, Mr. Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u258	Minister, can you tell us what the 40 grand profile you're saying isn't going to be in the reoccupation? Why don't they come in? Is he in HR in Chania? What's the 40 grand profile? Why aren't they being protected?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u259	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, I had the opportunity to speak this morning with Mr Katsotis and explain them to him. Mr Katsotis, we are applying exactly the provisions of the law as I have told you, the law you have also invoked in your question this morning, under which re-entry is compulsory. As regards the perimeter of workers under the law, I would like to say that they are all covered by compulsory reintegration. The second piece of 40 000 does not fall within the scope of these provisions. Should you be informed a little more? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u261	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u262	No, please. The Minister answered. Let's go to the speakers. Mr. Voridis said yesterday that he was a good man. It proves this today when it says that we should put two speakers first and then take the floor. Because he spoke with the Minister, I will give Mrs Papanatsiou the floor first from SYRIZA for seven minutes and then to Mrs Iatridis from New Democracy. The debate will then be held by Mr Vorides for two minutes and we will continue with the Members of Parliament... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Heta and Mr. Gregoryade, I know. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u263	Mr President, do I have the right to speak on a point of order for thirty seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u264	Let's hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, it has become a practice for the parliamentary representatives of the half-party groups to speak and the latter to not speak. That is unacceptable. If you want to be fair with the MPs, whom I always stand for, because I am a MP, I am nothing more, to be from the beginning, before Mr. Loverdos and before Mr. Tsakalotos. We're not scoundrels.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u266	No, to God! Now you insult me. I didn't say that, and I don't see you like that either. Please. Think a little bit about the MPs. Here you go, Mrs. Papanatsiou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, let us take the thread from where we left it in committee. I have also referred to the Commission in some of the provisions on loopholes. We have added legal forms and professionals to aid, a procedure which has been delayed a month and which has led to professionals not having received any aid in the middle of a lockdown. I said to you here that it does not seem to me to be a change in the MDG on 30 March to cover up to 20 employees. I also pointed out that you left outside the COMPAs and the cooperatives. Of course, this is not new, since the whole of your measures are an unknown word. He said the Minister should wait for the Recovery Fund. Your obsession with unprotected aid creates asphyxiation to production. Observe second on the repayable advance. This measure was criticised by the professionals themselves. You have chosen a tough preconditions framework. It should be noted that the procedure was original. First, you requested the necessary documents and then specify the terms of the loan. This has discouraged many, as they did not want to get into the process without knowing exactly what they would charge. You have moved to 1/4 of the calculated amount in just fifty-three thousand businesses. That's what concerns us. Doesn't that mean anything to you? It is not enough to reopen the application if it is done on the same terms. Professionals and businesses are currently going through a difficult time. You didn't make it easier. The opposite is true. You left them without any tangible reinforcement. Will you let us know if anything changes to the repayable advance and what business? Legal forms, cigarettes, where are changes made? He shared the amount approved. Observe third: Prolongation of first residence protection until 31 July. We also asked the committee what would have changed by then. We have also asked for information on the SALE & LEASE BACK project. What's gonna happen? The world will be like having a home, but won't it, but will it also pay rent? Observation fourthly, on the inclusion in the affected codes of hospital activities. The government chose to increase the compensation for private clinics with money that could strengthen the public system. Now they also come to add the money from the 20% reduction to the doses of clawback, the money that the EEAY will be deprived of and that would be directed towards public hospitals. We now go to Article 8, to the other provisions. What's the emergency the arrangement is facing and is coming here to the MDG? I also pointed out to you that the renewal of the provisions on rent reductions was delayed, creating a number of trade problems. Insufficient and narrow-hearted the tax rebate on the leasers. That's a POMIDA characterisation. Ladies and gentlemen, no one says the situation is easy. Unfortunately, your manipulations make it even more difficult. Unfortunately, you don't have a plan. Go "seeing and doing". We, while remaining consistent in the stance we held the quarantine space, specialised our proposal. It's different from the government's proposal. There is an absolute conflict in the logic of measures. We moved on five axes: Strengthen the public health system. We will not be tired of proposing it for the safety of the citizens, but also for the security of the economy. Supporting work, which has a central role to play in our economic recovery plan. Our aim is to protect workers, maintain wages and reverse deregulation trends. Supporting work and not as the government does with half the unemployment, a 20% reduction and a burden on the company affected for half the work rate, insurance contributions for the whole wage. We propose emergency income, which concerns free professionals, self-employed farmers, farmers, unemployed artists, workers in culture, four million beneficiaries who saw their income shrinking, but their obligations to grow. A minimum monthly income was approved by the Spanish Parliament yesterday. We support businesses when we support workers, households and consumption. However, their liquidity needs are extremely increased. This is what we are proposing to tackle, firstly, a programme of non-refundable aid, which will directly support EUR 2 000 for each operator or self-employed person and an additional 2 000 for every worker who is employed, up to EUR 100,000 for the upper threshold, i.e. fifty workers. Secondly, a reduction in tax advances to 50%. This is a proposal we announced last year, long before the pandemic, and it was part of our pre-election programme. Finally, we are strengthening targeted sectors which have been seriously affected: tourism with the abolition of the night's fee and an internal tourism programme, not 30 million, another 600 million. In addition, for the focus, in addition to measures relating to labour and business, a reduction in VAT to 6% by September and in the agricultural sector of 300 million, where both emergency and non-refundable aid will be provided in combination. The SYRIZA programme is trying to answer the initial questions, not with final decisions, but with a view to contributing and strengthening the cohesion of society. The choice of the government was, however, to proceed without dialogue, without taking into account other proposals. You have the report of Parliament's Budget Office, you have the recent study of the Chamber of Economic Affairs, the President of GATT tells you here in committee and the other producers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Mr President. Please be indulgent. After the Minister's position and the ongoing announcements of the Ministry of Finance, the only result we export on our proposal is that the cash cushion has used it, but also the necessary space to follow our proposals. You don't want them. Following the latest developments with the Commission proposal presented by the Minister for the Support Package, you should be in favour of a more generous programme, such as "We Stay Upright II" to find the economy in a better position and society to exploit the financing of the Recovery Fund. We are not proposing anything different from what is already happening in several countries of Europe. In their attempts to respond directly to the pandemic, the countries proceeded with direct major economic support. Internal devaluation should not be an option. You should know that better than all of us. But, like every crisis, today's is producing new dilemmas. The scale of the effects of the pandemic on the economy has shown the need for strong State intervention in a role to be played by the free market. This process has structural constraints from the very limits set by neoliberalism. You are suffering, ladies and gentlemen, so that people do not realize that state intervention can be positive for the economy. Your government's short-sighted choices, however, are those that push the economy into recession and the citizens into a new adventure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u268	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u269	We will not allow that. The sacrifices of the Greek people will not be lost. The river's not coming back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u270	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u271	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u272	Here you go, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, I would like to put forward some legislative improvements in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u274	Mrs. Chabika Iatridis has been speaking for seven minutes from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u275	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government with coolness, seriousness and realism faces a situation that no one has experienced in the past. From the first moment, however, he has taken action and made critical decisions. He listened carefully to the experts' instructions headed by Mr Tsiodra and we are now at the point where our country is an international example of how to handle and deal with the pandemic of the coronary, to have protected as far as human life as possible, to have made our country a safe destination. All this is clear that it was neither self-evident nor easy to do. But all together we have managed to win the first battle, the fight against health, the fight against the pandemic. With the direct reaction of the government, citizens feel and are healthly safe, and that is why we are all here to move forward in the next battle, the battle of the economy. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if we had not won the battle against health, we could not now talk about the bridge plan, about the plan to restructure our economy, nor, of course, about the opposition to criticise safely. In both legislative acts, April and 1 May 2020, the Government had made significant contributions to the crisis. And on May 20, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and fellow ministers announced the new measures to relaunch the economy, many of which are included in ministerial amendments tabled in this bill. Measures have been announced and are well known. However, I would like to focus on a wider political point and on something I have noted in the debate on the relevant committees. We are living through a dynamic, not a static situation. Therefore, the issue of meeting needs, which arises, is also a potential. The Government has shown many times that it is studying in real time all the data and, where appropriate, intervening in order to meet all the needs that can be met. This is something that the opposition and above all the Qualified Opposition cannot or does not want to understand. Obviously the absence of a serious alternative proposal and SYRIZA's consistent concept of opposition to the opposition, leads it away from society, away from the citizens. And that's because citizens live the story of 2015 and then they have a measure of comparison. Therefore, accusing a government that it is progressing carefully, by studying the data, which most of the time changes, is really something that only SYRIZA can explain. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to focus on the issue of tourism. If we are here discussing tourism, it is because the government has managed our islands to be a safe destination, and that is our comparative advantage over other countries. Tourism, as you know, contributes about 97% of the Dodecanese and generally of the South Aegean Region and, of course, we are prepared to deal with a difficult situation. But, I repeat, if we can talk about tourism this year is why our government protected our islands, protected the locust islanders. And now we are moving on with an integrated plan, which includes strengthening and interconnection of all health facilities - hospitals, health centres and regional hospitals - on our islands. There are an additional seven hundred health recruitments on our islands, more diagnostic tests and a plan of journeys by floating and air, under the supervision of the EAW. In simple terms, ladies and gentlemen, the island woman who lives in Leros and Kalymnos or in any other remote island knows that she can also be served in the local structure and, if necessary, she can be found on a nearby larger island with an appropriate structure. Because right now that we're talking about the Rhodes Hospital has an infection committee, it has been strengthened and it's a well-equipped hospital and the largest on our islands. Therefore, in the Dodecanese with the key interventions of the Ministry of Health and the Government, we are in a position to operate safely, first for us and, of course, for our visitors. It is truly regrettable that, for five years, SYRIZA had left our islands in their luck, which abolished the reduced rates of VAT on the Aegean islands, today coming and shaking our fingers. We, however, work with a plan and whatever needs are created, we will cover them and such needs are, Minister, and the placement of anesthetics at the Rhodes Hospital. There is, of course, already the final recruitment of them, but in the medium term anestheticists from the other hospitals in the country could be placed until this process is completed. The health system on our islands is further enhanced by the completion of the recruitments at the Hospitals of Kos and Karpathos, which have already been launched by the Ministry. And we don't stop here. It has already been discussed and tabled as a bill an overall initiative by the Government on island policy, which will introduce specific financial instruments and other measures to support the island economy and islands. Mr President, I would like to conclude by commenting on two main ministerial amendments. I am delighted to see that our suggestions and interventions are being heard by the relevant ministries. Thus, Amendment No 329 covers important issues such as: The workers in seasonal and non-predominant tourist accommodation, as well as the drivers of tourist buses. It is planned to grant exceptional aid to tourist workers, operating on a seasonal basis and for whom there is no right to re-entry during the current tourist season. Something that we have repeatedly stressed that it must be done and that it should be extended to the cheques by sixty days of businesses active in the tourism sector. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr. President. The same applies to enterprises whose SMR had not joined the previous measures, but which can now join them as firms affected under certain conditions. Finally, under the number 321/56 and Article 12, the mere concessions of Ayalos and Beaches and the rented furnished rooms are provided. It is a regulation that we had discussed at earlier times and I am very pleased that it is taking place, because all the businesses in tourism need to be strengthened. I note that the simple use of saints from these accommodations has been a constant practice in previous years. However, Minister, we should see that the square meters of the concession area are increased and from 100 square meters to go to more, perhaps even five hundred meters, according to the proposal of the Greek Association of Businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, at an extremely critical time, the government is responding in the best possible way to the challenges that we are all facing. There's a multi-level battle, dedication and vigilance. In this battle it has the confidence of the Greeks and Greeks and it is our duty to honour this trust. That is why we are progressing forcefully, with determination and commitment to our main objective. No one stays behind and all of us together to bring our lives and the economy to better condition than they were before the pandemic. I'm sure we'll make it. That is why I support this bill too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, too. Mr Vorides, Minister for Rural Development and Food, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to be very brief. I have followed with great interest this agonizing strategic debate by Mr Chakalotos in a unfamiliar dialogue with Mr Varoufakis and, possibly, with the Communist Party of Greece on the major strategic issues of the communist movement. Can we overthrow capitalism now? To make production criticisms of the capitalist system? Does this ultimately strengthen him? It is a conversation that lasts approximately 1890 and continues. I think the next hundred years will also be discussing it. In the meantime, we have to resolve any question of farmers. So we have two very important interventions today, which I would like to see if the Qualified Opposition and other wings will vote against, vote for and how they will be placed. In the first, and very important, we had to resolve a major issue, fully linked to the restrictive measures for the movement of workers in agricultural work, particularly those moving across the borders. There has, therefore, been - and this House has already voted on - a very important intervention, which has enabled workers in agricultural work to move by a special rapid procedure. I heard we didn't bother. I have already read an interesting text of "AUSTRIA", which is out of place and time, do not follow. Because they deal with these big strategies, they do not follow at all what is happening in the country. So what has happened is that it has already been possible - with a special rapid switch-over procedure - for citizens of third countries to be able to come to work specifically in rural areas. A further issue has been raised which has been attempted to make political use and which, if this House approves, will be resolved today. I have to congratulate the Minister of Labour here because it enables these workers, as is the legal right thing, to work with a bachelor because of the nature of agricultural work. This possibility is, therefore, also given to Article 6 of this amendment in practical legislative terms, if the House approves it, you will adopt this regulation. But you will also do something extremely important. You are allowing pensioners of the OGA, so pensioners of pensioners can continue to be employed in agricultural work, without interruption of retirement, since their income from agricultural work does not exceed EUR 10 000. It is extremely important regulation, facilitated by our producers, gives additional income to pensioners and does not cut them off from the work they do. And with an amendment which we tabled and which is to be voted on in the bill, which comes to a debate in plenary in the Ministry of Rural Development and Food on Tuesday and Wednesday, something is also extremely important. The unemployed are given the opportunity to work in agricultural work without any interruption in the provision of unemployment benefit. So, in fact, it is an integrated package, Mr President, to the House, which you are adopting today, and if the House considers it, on Monday and Tuesday, with which we are really strengthening the world of work, the world of production and surpassing one of the major difficulties connected with the restrictive measures at the time of the Coronovirus: the risk of production collapse, the risk of the harvesting and cultivation of the staff. Therefore, on the initiative of the Government, of course, if it approves it, the House will have made a decisive contribution to ensuring food adequacy, food adequacy and will continue to go along with productive harmony and boulder. And here, I would like to say the following. It is important that we have very good news from the primary production site. The growth in our exports is 15%, which shows the dynamism of this space and this sector. And I would like to thank all my fellow Members who help with their positions, their proposals and their vote in this direction. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u278	Thank you too, Minister, for keeping time, of course. Now, of course, Mr Gregoriadis will have to respond to some arrows that have been launched. For six minutes, therefore, the parliamentary representative of Mera25 Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u279	Thank you very much. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin with a really strange event. This awkward, in my opinion, is that, as you perhaps did not notice, but I have the perversion to look after such things, both the Minister of National Economy, Mr Stavros, and the parliamentary representative of the Vice-President, Mr Tsakalotos, and the Parliamentary spokesman of the third party, began their speeches and placements by responding not on the basis of the power of the parties, but by responding to Mr Varoufakis. It seems that, for some reasons, Mera25 is very much in your mind, which for us is very honorable, because it seems that all the political system which, in our opinion - and I say kindly - has detracted in this country now only fears one man, fears only one formation, fears only one movement, and that has a name and name and is called Mera25. That gives us great pleasure. However, I will not avoid temptation to start with Mr Chakaloto, who happens not to be here, seems to have been tired of man, was too many hours here. I will not, of course, ask him my questions, such as what is going on with 'HRAKLIS', because Mr Varoufakis asked it. It seems your government is determined to donate 12 billion to the predators. I will not ask him what is going on with the workers in art, it seems that you are determined to make them lost in space forever, to be invisible, that is, forever. I will not ask what is going on with LARCO, I will not ask any of this, I will not even ask what is happening with the spots "Greek Republic - Government" as if the "Greek Republic" had not arrived. I will, however, stick to Mr Stavoura to say a few words to him. Even if he's missing, you'll be transferring him or watching us from the closed TV circuit right now. Dear Mr Staikora, I would like to tell you first, not to be fooled. It did not veto the official way that the President of the Netherlands should have put forward and would mean, but in the previous wonderful attempt to save Europe, the Macron - Merkel project - which I must say was more amazing than what is now coming and which you triumph, what would pay £500 billion to subsidies in most of it - said 'I do not accept it'. When the Dutch President makes the statement 'I do not accept it', it means he is vetoing. Secondly, I come to the numbers, which seem to have not had them, but I will remind you of them, because that, you know, is like a pandemic, it's a political pandemic, let me say. And I'll explain exactly what I'm talking about. It is that we have been constantly learning that the pandemic of COVID - 19 is the one that has cut the country's course, the economic path at a time when the economy of the country was even inclined, according to the Prime Minister's words - on 25 May last week, our Prime Minister said this - on a development path. It is also something that all the relevant ministers have been repeating to the committees for so many days. It is easy to hide behind the COVID -19 and of course I am not a populist. We are not populists at Mera25 and we will never say that it does not play a huge role and that it has not been dramatically burdened. However, it is the responsibility of a pandemic to take part or participate to a maximum extent in something else. And I'll explain right away why we say that. Because, as the beautiful evidence says - which, my dear Mr Stakoura, your ministry gave us and we did not make it either out of our belly or smelled our fingernails, the popular one - in the last quarter of 2019, according to our Ministry of National Economy, our national income was reduced by $274 million, please! During the same year, 2019, the gross investment in the country was reduced by the already extremely low 14%, on national income, which was in 2017, in the still extremely, outrageously, one would say, below 11% in 2019. And you know, ladies and gentlemen of the government, but also of the previous governments, this is what exposes you all together, because so many years, ten years of memorials, we constantly hear the same wish, that, as soon as we got out of the memorials, there is where the economy took place, and that if it were not that cursed virus and all that wonderful. And here comes this lousy - comedy, I'm saying - a number on gross investment, and it shows that all this is just a lie. Mr Stagioras said about a development proposal, I mean this last rescue plan, which will certainly rescue the whole European south. It was therefore described as a proposal for a development, a fair, flexible proposal, but, above all, it said that it was with grants rather than loans. So that's an amazing proposal! I imagine you'll all agree here! That's a great suggestion! If it is the case as Mr Stavros said, you will of course be unforgivable if you bring into the country a fifth memorial, because with such an amazing, almost perfect proposal, I fear that you will prove to be completely inadequate governors. Perhaps that is why you are a little less enthusiastic about the proposal from your SYRIZA colleagues. You know why. Because I listened with my own ears to Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos yesterday or yesterday on a television show calling this proposal a Eurobond. Indeed, he said that it is a Eurobond, after the European Commission issues it, he says so, the European Commission said so. I would therefore like to inform her that no European Commission and no institution, legal or extraordinarily illegal and parasitic, such as those European committees, can issue any Eurobonds at all. Eurobonds issued and can only be issued by the European Central Bank. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That's what Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou said. And as I told you before, you are less enthusiastic, because of course you do not dare. And one wonders why you do not dare call it a Eurobond. I'll tell you why you don't dare. You don't dare to rule and lie has very short feet. Because you say let us keep a butt when, in a very short time, the bad news, ferocious poverty and enormous unemployment begin to come. And you know better than me that this is something that's going to happen. This proposal is therefore not a Eurobond. However, Eurobonds may not be called Eurobonds, but it is called a 'proposal'. Do you know why you call it a "proposal"? Because it's a proposal. And what does it mean to be a proposal? That it is not a decision, but it is another wish that we can see if the 'bad policemen' will again veto the bad cops in the European Union. We'll see! And I would like to say to Mr Tsakalotos: we, my dear Mr Tsakalotos, said nothing about the fact that nothing can happen unless socialism comes first. We don't say such things. Nor do we ever say that we are stubborn and that because we are not doing what we want and we want, we persuasion and we sit at our corner. We have said and repeated for almost a year that we have elected a word, the word 'beto'. Veto, Mr. Chakaloto! Veto, Mr. SYRIZA! Do you know that four and a half years you've never practiced a veto? You have ruled and represented the left, without vetoing the downfall of our people, of humiliation, of smuggling and, above all, of ferocious poverty and the enormous unemployment of our people. Veto, we say, it's the magic word. Remember her - you knew her five years ago - and find her again! This veto brings about almost a link to the debate, the next parliamentary representative, who attacked our President, Mr. Loverdos, who said "what he would say, so today Mr. Varoufakis, for the early veto he demanded...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u280	Please complete this, Mr. Gregoryade, with this attack.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u281	I shall conclude, Mr President, when I double my time, as Mr Lovers has done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u282	You're wrong, Mr. Gregoriadis. Mr. Loverd's chief didn't talk, though. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u283	Mr. Loverdos didn't talk at all!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u284	Mr Varoufakis spoke and even twice a year. Don't tell me you'll talk twice a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u285	Mr. Loverdos spoke twenty-two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u286	Please do not embarrass me, Mr Grigoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u287	Mr. Loverdos may be more handsome than me, but he's nothing else. I'll explain it to you to understand it once and for all. Mr. Loverdos spoke twenty-two minutes, while he had twelve. I've got six minutes. If you do a mathematical act, you will see that, according to Mr. Loverdo, I can speak at least four more. So let me do it and don't waste your time, because I'll finally do it. So Mr. Loverdos called us for the veto and said, "Now, what? Are we sorry? Do we put the tail on the legs? Now we're telling you he's gonna need a veto again. And with the new data you'll work anti-nationals if you don't veto again. Finally, a government will be forced to exercise some veto in the end. And I shall end, Mr President, so that I do not torment you any more and you and this House - in this case. So exceptionally did the Greek economy before the coronary derails us, imagine, that the Ministry of Finance remained 37% behind its budgetary targets for the first two months of the year. So, really, if it weren't exceptional months, as the Prime Minister said it was, how long would your ministry have left behind? Would it have been 80%, 90%? The tragic thing is that while you are - and you are - exemplary captives, as you certainly do not have the virtue or the daring to attempt any escape and say the great and necessary 'no' to the fifth memorandum and inhuman austerity, which this will bring in 2021, because of your own and uniqueness, the tragic fact is that despite the exemplaryness of your captivity, the inability of your leadership succeeds in not even achieving the rafts and objectives of your European parasitic boss. Don't throw it all into the COVID -19, as it just accelerated and to some extent increased the bankruptcy of your capitalist neoliberal policy. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, too. I'm obligated, you haven't reached twelve minutes. Mr Stefanadis or Mr Mulkiotis should be kind and should give up his place to Mrs Perka, who must leave until seven o'clock. By seven, Mr. Karathanasopoulos and Mr. Heitas must speak, and so must we take him back and forth. Thank you for understanding. Mr Karaoglu, State Secretary for the Interior, has the floor for an amendment for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u289	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be within the next year. I have the pleasure and honour of standing in front of you to refer to Article 10 of the Ministry of Finance amendment, an important article on the creation of the fourth generation Technology Park, Thess INTEC in Thessaloniki, because I can say very confidently that it is now and officially the uterus of innovation in south-east Europe. With two words, what we said, we do it. Northern Greece accepts the historic challenge to evolve into an international hub of knowledge-based research, technology and entrepreneurship. The fourth generation technology park "Thess INTEC", ladies and gentlemen, is a unique project in the wider region of the Balkans, the aim of which is to concentrate critical mass of companies, based on state-of-the-art technology. Its proper and effective function is a collective bet, which should be won, because it is not only about Macedonia and Thrace, but about the whole country. The direct attraction of foreign and domestic investments, based on high technology, can give a new orientation to our national economy. In this effort, Thessaloniki declares its present and pledges to be a protagonist. So today, with the resolution of Article 10 of the Ministry of Finance amendment, we are taking the most decisive step towards the creation of the fourth generation technology park, which will be financed by the private initiative. We are not just implementing one of the most important announcements of the present government, but we are proving that politics is the most important area for development. I will not go in, and I will not go into detail on the substance of the amendment, so that I do not trouble you and not go out of time. I will simply say that on the extent of the transferred land of seven hundred and sixty acres, a special urban plan will be drawn up by the Ministry of the Environment, Spatial Planning, the sole responsibility of which will be to draw up a pension for the company that is to be set up for this purpose, the Business Park Development Company, which is responsible for drawing up all the necessary studies, as well as all the necessary infrastructure. At this point I would like to remind you of the most important security net put by the Prime Minister himself from the stage of last year's eighty-sixteenth Thessaloniki International Exhibition, last September, so that the area is not exploited, a safety net, which relates to the viability of the project, when the timetables are set tightly and effectively. The property to be housed by the fourth generation Technology Park will be restored to the ownership of the Greek State within two years from the date of publication of the approval decision on the development of the "Thess INTEC", as long as certain essential conditions are not met. In particular, if it is established by the competent authorities supervising Law No 3982/2011 that the conditions and conditions of the approval decision are not complied with. Furthermore, if the development company fails to demonstrate its viability, i.e. it cannot attract private loans and funds to co-finance it, covering at least 5% of the budget for the first phase of the project, as well as if the property is used for purposes other than the project. Finally, I should like to say a few words about an important provision concerning tax incentives. As you will read in the amendment, it is clear that any contract for the transfer of the right to surface, market and donation of movable and immovable property to the development company to ensure the development of the business park, as well as an area within the business park by the development company or by a company established or relocated within the 'Thess INTEC', is exempted from the transfer tax and donation tax respectively. This is a very important decision that aims to motivate large, small, but innovative businesses to dare to join the project, to create synergies and to attract investment funds. Ladies and gentlemen, the creation of the high standard technology park in Thessaloniki is a project over parties. That is why I do not believe that there will be a member of the opposition who will vote against the amendment. The fourth generation Technology Park "Thess INTEC" is the answer to the growing need for an effective and dynamic organisation that will promote the innovation, competitiveness and entrepreneurship of Greek businesses. Within this they will coexist and cooperate in industries and research groups to transfer the research results from the laboratory to the production of genuinely innovative products. From today on, with the vote on the amendment, Thessaloniki is preparing to host a national development project whose benefits will be multiple for our national economy. Northern Greece, Macedonia and Thrace become a safe investment destination, which thanks to its distinct geostrategic position and its great human potential, has all the facilities to develop into a host of emblematic investments. All the north-easters must embrace this effort in order to make it easier to obtain flesh and bones. Egoisms and logic of individualism do not fit in at the present time and do not emit creativity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u290	Thank you too, Minister. Mrs. Theophiste Perka has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr President, as well as colleagues. Unfortunately, we got away a little from time. We didn't figure it out. Mr Vorides left to tell him that, yes, the herd amendment does solve problems, because we do not make a sterile opposition. And now let us land or rather take off in the next few days, because I shall mainly refer to air transport, which there is no doubt that they have been hit very strongly because of the pandemic. Let us see how the aid is to be granted in accordance with national and Union law. Here is this provision on cancellation debts. They're the well-known vouchers. So this is defined as the only alternative to the passenger in case of cancellation of his flight, that is only if within eighteen months the voucher does not use it will have a refund - only then. In other words, passengers lend the airlines with several millions. This is, of course, contrary to European regulations, according to which, in order to protect passengers' rights, they must have the right to choose either the return of money or the voucher. The Greek Government has intervened with twelve countries in order to change the regulation of the European Commission. Not only has it not changed, but there will also be sanctions. So the Executive Vice-President of the Commission says: 'Do the vouchers more attractively, but the money cannot be repaid'. Of course this is contrary to the country's constitution as regards the maintenance of property, property, as is the case with passenger money. But now we are on an even more difficult subject, because I was also raised by Mr Stagioras. I shall refer to the 'FRAPORT'. So Mr Stavros told us that "FRAPORT" does not owe the Greek State any debt, he owes TIADE. Really? Is that a public fund? Whose money is HIAD's money? Secondly, there is a suspension here because the concession agreement had not been examined. Listen to see, the main argument in favour of concessions over time was that the businessman takes the risk. Really? More risk? Here the "FRAPORT" is deferred to give the money of the 2019 concession, which at the same time shows over-profit and gives bonuses to its executives. If he asked for 2020 and in December we could discuss it. But in any case - and we have seen it here today, at some point, we also had an explosion - there are institutional limits. When a Greek state signs a concession contract, it goes with the concession contract. Since this concession agreement did not provide for an event of force majeure, the 'FRAPORT' was not entitled. We have also asked a lot of questions and we have no answer. However, he went beyond it and brought PPP. With an MDT, he's giving this parole out of the contract. It should be recalled that the Greek state must, above all, protect and strengthen the twenty-three airports, which remain in the public sector and are also the most vulnerable, due to smaller traffic and especially the airport of Heraklion, which also depends on the financing of the airport's work in Kastelli. Now we're going to the airlines. Of course, here are the management companies. He even told us that in the future we could see it for extra support, because he would obviously also come from the Freedom Venizelos, if the government were to come up with the legal designation of the incident. Because one contract gives money with an adverse event, the other gives the event of force majeure. Open everything! Here, with the government's horizontal measures, with the specific regulations that have been adopted today, airlines are being given aid. I am talking about the vouchers I have mentioned, VAT reduction, 15% rate for flight crew, reductions in state fees, etc. We are concerned, however, with a regulation, which defines as compensation the sum of EUR 20 plus VAT per seat offered for the period April and May and for commercial flights, passenger and cargo, but also for feral lines. Here we have a reflection. How do 20 euros come out and what amount do they correspond to, especially for passenger cars? Because the others are fewer. This is how the entire aircraft is subsidized, as if there were no vacant position, and that is an issue. Of course, this is done under the responsibility of the air carrier and not the PSC. And of course here again - and every time I say it - where is the APA? Where is this independent administrative structure, which will also control the FAO and the entire air transport process? Ten months - eleven are almost there - nothing has happened, despite all the promises. At the same time, beyond that, we hear that AEGEAN will receive EUR 400 million state aid. The latest news says that AEGEAN will receive public guarantee loans of around EUR 115 million, as we saw yesterday, from the four systemic banks. Listen to see, there is the international example, there is the European example, and I refer to the 'LUFTHANSA' that will receive a EUR 9 billion package, but 25% of the shares in the German State, with representation on the supervisory board and a veto right. 'AIR FRANCE' and 'KLM', where 14% of France and the Netherlands are in possession respectively, will receive aid under conditions for more ecological policy. Of course, he'll freeze the dividends and bonuses on the executives. Italy is preparing for the statement of ‘ALITALIA’, ‘TAP’, etc. What are we going to do exactly? Let's be clean. We think he wants support. All areas want support. But any reinforcement of the airlines must be made subject to certain conditions. The main condition is that the ban on redundancies, the maintenance of jobs and the pay of workers is directly linked. We remember a few hundred employees who were fired with SMS at Venizelos Eleftherios. And of course, as far as the aid is concerned, it is clear that the Greek State cannot obtain guarantees and exchanges, which, of course, means shares, being present on the board with a veto exercise. We're expecting a lot of answers. We'll come back with timeliness. From now on, the rest of my speech has to do with the well-known and favorite theme of the government: "Direct awards" for the movement of students, for matters relating to supply contracts at grade 1, for supplies of vehicles, spare parts, related services. The OSCE amendment to Article 2 for four months also provides for a direct delegation, contrary to Law 4412. He's putting on some other articles. What does he actually say? Instead of direct awards of up to EUR 20 000, up to EUR 480 000 for procurement contracts, EUR 5.5 million for works contracts and so on. The Single Independent Authority for Public Contracts is, however, mentioned and that, by means of MSF provisions, no derogations can be introduced even in exceptional circumstances, such as the present health crisis, so that the principle of transparency, equal treatment, etc. is not violated. Of course I can ask you one last question. Since these derogations come today, how did the Ministry manage to assign EUR 372,000 from the OSCE to private companies for three hundred passenger assistants? Ladies and gentlemen, once again we say that the good and transparent management of the country's public finances is primarily a question of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, too. I'll give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Mr. Theodore Dog for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak briefly on three issues. The first is the provision for the extension of the cheques, especially for the tourism sector. There I would like to point out that we have anticipated those who receive the cheques, the bearers and do not belong to the tourism sector, if they are affected significantly, that is, if they have more than 20% of the average monthly turnover over the previous year, to be able to enter the affected businesses so that we can soften those outside the perimeter. The second point I wanted to raise, more importantly, concerns the response to the opposition on the issue of recession. I heard Mr. Varoufakis talking about 15%. He spoke, gave a number for remission. What I did not hear is what a budget programme has, based on this 15% of the recession. So, what does he propose we do? All I heard him propose is to veto the Eurogroup. This is his financial programme. The last time Mr Varoufakis went to the Eurogroup in February 2015, I remember him giving 10 billion back to the lenders to sign an additional extension of the memorandum. He was the only minister, you know, who signed an extension of the memorandum and instead of getting money, he gave money to the lenders. Its appearance in the Eurogroup is therefore not a convincing financial programme. On the other hand, SYRIZA, who has indeed presented a budget programme, does not tell us what a recession is predicting. How is it possible to make a budget programme without saying what remission you will have? Impossible. How are you gonna make cash planning if you don't say what remission you're going to have? From there, if you don't say what recession you'll have, what revenue you'll lose, what you'll need, what taxes to cut, what taxes to put, what cash in cash, there's no budget programme. Of course, if there is no financial programme, you can promise what you want. Give a non-refundable deposit, give whatever money you have. I fell for a feather. Air words are budgetary commitments, when you do not anticipate a specific recession in GDP. The third point I wanted to raise is a very important provision that this House will be voting on today. I think it is of historic importance and we should realise that. This is the provision for the possibility of giving a guarantee to the European Union to lend itself on behalf of Europe. It concerns ‘SURE’ but can be used in other cases. In this way we are creating a new legal form on the substance of the loan. This has been done so far only to the ESM. It is very likely that the same technique will be used for the other, the much larger funds that come and from which Greece is looking forward and is likely to get tens of billions of euros. The last forecast is 22 billion, only crunch. This new legal form, the new European Union that can be borrowed is a revolutionary change in Europe. It's a new phase of federalization. Just this provision that gives the guarantee, opens the way for a new Europe to which we will enter with our key but we will get much more money. That's the big change. I have the feeling that the only one who understood it in this Chamber is Mr. Koutsubas. That is why he has come out and said that these 20 billion Europe's workers are being attacked. Because he realised that the step taken by Europe is so great, so revolutionary, that it has not been returned. We are entering a next phase of federation that is of no benefit to Greece as much as anything else. Why wrong with lies, Greece is the most advantageous country on the basis of the data we have obtained from the new funds that are created. I do not know where the negotiations will eventually end up, but in any case it creates optimism, because it gives us resources that will not only be spent on investment, social support, green development for digital convergence, but will create a very large financial space from the taxes and contributions that will bear, depending on the leverage we are going to make, namely the private resources that we will mobilise, depending on the speed of absorption. This budgetary possibility, which gives us this money, will allow us to overcome the coronary crisis and to keep our programme to a very significant extent - I hope 100% - on the basis of which we have voted to reduce taxes and reduce taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, too. Mr Constantine Hetas has the floor from the Greek Parliamentary spokesman, whom I thank for the understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u295	If nothing else, Mr President, with the granting of the position, we have again ensured calmness in Parliament. I think female attendances had a little temper today. But I think things have now been put into place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u296	Thank you. It's Friday. Everybody's got some work to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u297	I'm kind of charming. Anyway, we love women, so we do our best to make them better. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have had the feeling that I have seen a great deal. I haven't seen everything. It can't be done. As far as we're living, we're collecting experiences. In fact, over the last few months here in Parliament, we think that we have been seeing everything slowly. I'll end up somewhere and tell you what I mean. I want to start today with a report made by the President of the Greek Solution. I think he was the only one talking about it. It's for this black day for Hellenism and Christianity. I won't stay in history. I will not stay in the historical event because, after all, Kyriakos Velopoulos analysed it very well. I want all Greeks and Greeks and we in Parliament to see together, if this story eventually teaches us the Greeks at some point. It must be history taught to avoid past mistakes. That is the question I put to the Greek Parliament. Have we learned from the mistakes of the past? I don't think we've been taught, and I'll explain why. First of all, I would like to say that I would expect a communication on this very important day from the Commission on 'Greece 2021'. It's a black day for Hellenism and Christianity. Shouldn't he make an announcement? With great respect to the institution of the President of the Republic, I would expect a statement from the President of the Republic, a report, to show at least the same study and the same interest he has shown for the LGBTIs. Let us show it today, on a great, historic, black day for Hellenism and Christianity. I would therefore expect the Presidency of the Republic with full respect for these institutions to make a statement, not official, even a post on Facebook, a tweet. To get back to the buyers, because that's our problem. How did the Alcohol become? I'm on my way. If that is a transport concept, ladies and gentlemen, we can look at today's ferries. Aren't they Moria, and every Moria, Samos and every Samos a treat? Isn't it today a modern ferry door? The Turkish F-16 that repeatedly violate the Greek FIR is not a ferry? That's where these come from. And someone allows them to do these things. In the occupation of Cyprus, I should like to refer to the deepening of the Aegean Sea, the sale of Macedonia, the uprooting of our brothers in the northern continent. Which ferries did they come in and do all of this, which I mentioned now? They're the modern buyers of our time. It has been years since 1453 and yet we still have speculators that someone has opened up in the past. Unfortunately, history has not taught us. You see these unacceptable, restless, nervous, claiming neighbors of our Turks. They did something incredible today. They built a wall in front of Agia Sophia to tear it down to celebrate and show us. It's terrible things they do. We don't adopt a policy of reciprocity, which would say, if Mr. Dendias was here. I shall refer to Mr Teddy next. We do not say 'war or anything else'. Oh, no. But should these things not somehow be answered? So how do we answer Mr. Baggis, to Mr. Baggis, who, in an interview, moves us to the finger and tells us that: "Greeks have not learned what happened in Cyprus. They want to put a fence on. And if they want to put fences, they have to ask Turkey," says the fierce Mr. Baggis. No answer, nothing. How are we going to respond to the statement by the Turkish nationalist Buyhutman who threatened with a new Asia Minor disaster? Today he said. You've all seen the statements. How do we respond to these provocatives? Shouldn't we answer? Are we going to send any steps? We sent two deeds last week. And because I am a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and we had the conversation with Mr. Dendia, we learned that what happened in those days was the Greek Solution, the extreme right, which carried the rest of the minor political fronts into an extreme logic and rhetoric. That's what Mr. Dendias said. But Mr. Dendias didn't tell us what those deeds were saying. He never told us, despite our demand. Minister, Mr. Treasury, you may suffocate within your own clothes or into your own party. Because the party you serve adopts what we say. And cement bits he put a fence in. Whatever we said. I know that you are not a supporter of this view, Mr Dendia, because you told us and there is a radio interview that you say 'I do not agree with the construction of a fence'. What can we do, Mr. Teddy? Greece agrees, because it must protect its borders. If you cannot, it is much more honorable to say: ‘I disagree with them. I leave my place to another Foreign Minister." At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, since I was talking about speculators, the country's Islamisation continues. It's unbelievable and I'll tell you examples. I hear that in New Peramos, which is the "new fruit", the world is in the front line and is waiting for you to go there the illegal, illegal immigrants. The Grevena people themselves. Lies, lies, lies! Defraud from the South Metarakis. For what is happening in Greece has been signed South Mitaraki under the tolerance of the Prime Minister of the country. Malakasa: Illegal immigrants expel Greeks. Yes or no? Did it happen in Malakasa or not? In the Skull, I saw the news reports. For God's sake! Did the illegal immigrants take the police forces away? Can we live in our times today? Running the waffles, the cops and the MATs, why did they take them down? In the square of Sapphios, in Mytilini, they are slaughtered every day, and Mr Karaoglou left in Thessaloniki, in the Monastery, in front of the citizens of Greece. Every day these things happen in our country, in our country. And we whistle indifferently! And in Omonia, in Mr. Bakoyannis' multicultural umbrella that made us Islamabad's square, come as soon as we're done, go for a walk from there, see if I'm too much, if I'm lying, if I'm a racist, if I'm a nationalist, if my rhetoric touches the extremities. That is what you say and I naturally reject everything, because none of it is true. But come and see Mr. Bakoyannis' new square, Omonia. What did he get us? Sidrivani to melt Congo and Bangladesh? They're the only ones running around and making selfie, there's nothing else. I have too much to say. On the issue of the Presidencies to make it clear and to hear that the conversation that took place yesterday in the House on the occasion of complaints by citizens about the use of the term "Macedonia" in the word Fyrom. It had nothing to do with anything else. The rest will come. And the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry, which has been tabled by the Greek Solution, hopes that it will be discussed by June. You are fighting the two parties, the New Democracy and SYRIZA, but you both voted the same. We have only voted 'no'. I mean, it's all for some reason. Two more references, Mr President, and I am closing. This Greece that I described, which is why I told you that we have not seen it all, and what the media unfortunately presents is a virtual reality, is a virtual reality, while other things are running at the same time. What I've described I don't see anywhere. No one presents them. They present another Greece with 20 million channels in it. So, what do we do? You know that to SYRIZA too because you ran the country and had - not to such an extent - the means on your side. I'm closing up with the defoliation. They ask me from Macedonia: What's going on? Why, while we have a right until 2028, they took it to 2022? Why would the German have it by 2038? Why is my Prime Minister talking to 'BILD' and says that I 'close all the coal mines sooner and more will the residents have to find something else to do and take advantage of the German companies from it'? Why would these things happen? Tell me. So sensitive, so green the Prime Minister? Greece, a dot, is the global problem? Shall we close our lignites three and four years earlier? I'm closing up to talk about a rule of law, because this is where we legislate. We were with Mr Chiara the other day in the Committee on Civil Service and Justice, of which I am a member. It boils Rethymnon, it boils in Greece. That son of a bitch, this beast is released again and has a name. It is called Nicos Seiraakis, a man who was deceived, was caught in the act of leaning on three minors, which the human mind does not fit, and another thirty-sixteen cases came out in the forum, another thirty-sixteen children. So this son of a bitch ate four hundred years and the rotten system, ours, because that's how he got him out in eight years, and today he's free, he's released. So I say it to see the essence, to listen to the people, to the Greek citizens. So come on, let's legislate and fix all this. No such beasts can move freely. That's why we say and we're not at all extreme about such cases when we say life is life. Never see the sunlight again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u298	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u299	Mr President, there are seven and ten of them and only three colleagues have spoken from the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u300	You're right, what can I tell you? The government and the leaders are to blame. It's not anyone else's fault. I tried a lot, Mr. Loverdo, but it's not coming out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u301	I know. I don't testify to you. I'm just pointing out the fact.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u302	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u303	The government and the majority of the House are responsible for everything we see. He wanted to legislate in a meeting of two hundred five articles. And not in one, but in half a meeting because we started at 13.00, so the protests should turn that way. He could have gone to two meetings and talked much better. Ladies and gentlemen, today's interventions by the JRC and what has been done so far with its Secretary-General and the rapporteur, but also those which will follow, want to contribute to making the basic issue clear, which is currently facing the working class, the rest of the populace, despite the attempt to cover up the New Democracy, SYRIZA, the Change Movement, with the help of Varoufakis. What is this effort and what is the main problem? We've been building up especially lately with the rescue packages. Gallagher, states, European Union, now with the Reconstruction and Development Fund - it says - 32 billion will be spent on Greece. Overall through European programmes, over the next few years Greece will get 61 billion. Money with the bag. Will someone who's taking this money and where do we get it from? Isn't that the main question? Who's going to pluck this coarse money? And the decisions of the European Union do not call into question. The one who will be fruitful will be the major business groups, directly through state funding, through European funding, and, indeed, in sectors that are a priority for the European Union as a whole. And who are these branches? He's telling them. Digital economy, green economy and industry, affected by the new capitalist crisis, i.e. tourism, transport. So we have one of the prisoners. And here look at the diversity in the treatment: Fund with warm money the business groups and at the same time try to break LARCO. Why this different approach, will anyone ask? But it is also an operation that could be financed by European packages and not lead to this attempt to shrink and privatise it, because the interests here are too great. They are huge groups, who want to "hand" the mineral wealth of our country, but also the specific mineral wealth. Because it is the only company in the European Union, which produces ferro-nickel and has 90% of nickel deposits at European Union level, in addition to its possibilities for producing stainless steel. You take out the raw material, process it and bring the stainless steel here. These logics just lead to shrinking. After all, these are the government's measures. You closed the mine of "LARCO" in Kastoria, which has a ready-made medal of tens of millions of euros to get it from private individuals. In Larymna, only one blast furnace works. All the rest of them crashed. Several contractors get millions of euros from this process. Therefore, they should "hand" the mineral wealth and at the same time break the rights of workers. Of course, this effort will find strong resistance and that is very clear, because the employees of LARCO have a very important experience. And it is up to you today to accept the JRC's amendment. This is indirect support. But there is also direct support. The Minister of Labour - apologies, the Minister of Labour - who executes the contracts for the BSE and SETE orders to the workers, said "in this way we support the work". Really? You support companies through the financing of part of their wage bill. Indirect financing to enterprises is. In fact, this is how you promote and accelerate flexible forms of employment. The programme plus work, the 'SURE', is designed to break full-time and promote part-time work. At the same time, workers lose 20% of their wages as a whole. And what else? They can make use of the full-time worker, because there are no control mechanisms, while in theory it is rotating. So these are the issues. One of the prisoners. Secondly, it is through this process that the reforms are being promoted, which is an essential complement to the European Union's programmes: elasticisation of the labour market, permanent measures toward workers, the smashing of rights and greater liberalisation of the labour market for cheap consumables. And today you say you support the workers? You also said that: 'We will support tourism'. Since the Minister himself admitted that forty thousand will not get a penny, because the law does not cover them. Change him, since the law doesn't cover them. You hid behind the law that you and SYRIZA voted for together? Also, the remaining eighty thousand will take 534 euros for four months. If all eighty thousand get it! In other words, you say to them 'your annual income this year will be two grand'. Who? To all those who, in previous years, have made the miracle of tourism, for the great hotel groups to pay off. Same with the EAB. Thanasis Pafilis will speak much more specifically about the issues of EAV, as will George Marinos for "LARCO" because I do not have time. So elasticity to shield competitiveness. They want to work without rights, cheap and consumable. The second reform axis is market liberalisation. So more privatization. Third, the merchandise. For example, health. Should workers not draw conclusions, that despite pandemic, huge deficiencies in the public health system exist? And how are they trying to cover them up? By exploiting the legal framework of SYRIZA with private doctors to join public hospitals, to sign contracts under conditions and at the same time to promote partnerships, PPPs, between hospitals and the private sector. So what do they shape? They form the new 'architecture' for which Mr Skoplakis spoke earlier. And what is this new "architecture"? The unification of the European Union is more reactionary. So the European Union and its committees will be directly involved in the Member States, not only by monetary integration, but also by fiscal consolidation and the European Union's policy as a whole. In an even more reactionary direction, then, all this is moving. The second question is this. All right, let's get these. Who's gonna pay for it, where aren't you? We say that the people themselves will pay them: the increase in public debt, a tax burden. The well-being and those who are trying to make the situation look good say: 'But they will also be grants of 22 billion.' Really, how will this subsidy money be covered? Will they fall out of the sky? Will they not, as they say, increase the participation of each country by means of guarantees? One must therefore ensure that the guarantees are guaranteed: the taxation of workers. Or they say that 'we will impose pan-European taxes'. Is that not indirect taxation, which people will pay again at European Union level? The end of the pollutants, who pays it? Does PPC and the other electricity industries pay for this? Oh, no. The end of the pollutants is paid by the people's households through an increase in energy tariffs, PPC and the rest. So, again, the workers will be called upon to pay these rescue packages of business groups. From this point of view - and I conclude with that, Mr President - today the way to improve the situation, as Mr Tsakalots has tried to tell us, does not go through the logic that we are all in the same 'barca', so businesses and workers must be saved to reproduce capital. We are not all in the same boat. Tourism is the trajectory of the fact that we are not all in the same 'wark', because in the past few years it has won billions, workers have been rewarded in the tourism sector with 16 forms of flexible employment. They were rewarded with labour intensification, rewarded with poverty and hunger wages and rewarded the people as a whole with tourism being a luxury and a distant dream, not being able to go on vacation. This is the result of development in the tourism sector, which you are saying today that we are all in the same 'barka'. Oh, no. The workers and the rest of the populace are those who paid for the crisis, paid for development, and they will pay again for the crisis, so capitalist growth will come again. So we say very clearly that we are not all in the same boat. The JRC has specific proposals and goals of fighting, but they are in conflict. That's why we have a different logic. We are not talking about horizontal measures. We are talking about class-target measures, which will address the problems facing the working class and the rest of the people's population and the support they will receive from their incomes, will pay the capital. That's what we're saying. This is the JRC's proposal. It is a realistic proposal, it is a question of fighting targets which conflict with the interests of capital, namely those which are to blame for the problems faced by the people in the previous years and today. Why? Because the workers and the rest of the people have paid a lot, and we say they should not pay again. That is why we need to conflict with the interests of business groups, with the policies of the European Union and the governments, with the system as a whole, the unfair and profitable one, which makes the richest and the poorest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, too. I will give the floor to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief to keep the time absolutely short. Our country has responded positively to the crisis of the coronary pandemic and this very much results from the early decisions made by the Prime Minister of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, but also from the unity, solidarity and democratic discipline shown by the Greek people at this very critical period. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, Athanasios BOURAS]] The Greeks have once again demonstrated that in the difficulties we can join forces and effectively deal with the serious problems that have existed all this time. This is what I think is the best way for the next period, when we will reasonably have left the health crisis behind, but we will have before us to face the great economic crisis, which will, moreover, be facing the whole of humanity, the European Union and each country separately. In this difficult period the government supported with all its powers in local government in order to become practically a pole of solidarity and social cohesion. I believe that self-government has proved to be an extremely useful and effective institution at this time. The Ministry of Interior has provided EUR 15 million for the municipalities and regions to take emergency measures to deal with the pandemic. On the days that we are going through the Ministry of Interior there is exceptional financial support of EUR 75 million to the municipalities in order to cope with the losses resulting from the reward fees, which we have very consciously frozen throughout this pandemic period to support the businesses that were no longer working. We gave timely regular grants to the mountain and island municipalities for the corresponding dose of the CFPs, while the Ministry of Interior provided with exceptional financial support from the respective regions the food of at least sixty thousand fellow citizens with two meals this day during this entire period. We also supported by upgrading the 'Help at Home' programme, enabling workers from other sectors to use them. We acted as a "fresh" of the instalments of the municipality's loans to the Deposit and Loan Fund for three months. We have given the opportunity to pay the CFP in advance with payment of up to seventy-two months to the municipalities, as well as the possibility of recruiting four-month temporary staff, by way of derogation from all the planned and existing procedures. These are, entirely concisely, very concrete measures taken by the government and the Ministry of the Interior to support self-government and in practice to promote social solidarity, cohesion and civil service in this very difficult period. At the same time, we have created the Antonis Tritsis programme, a programme of EUR 2.5 billion guaranteed resources from a memorandum of cooperation signed on 13 March by the Minister of Interior with the President of the Deposit and Loan Fund. Through this project and action programme forty thousand jobs are to be created in the private sector only by the construction of the projects, without taking into account the added value of the projects and their positive effects on the local economy. The main feature of this project is that it aims at exploiting the municipalities of the country by all, zero, excluding them. Previous programmes from the previous government aimed, supposedly, at similar objectives, but had only been left with EUR 134 million guaranteed against commitments and promises of EUR 1.2 billion. Then we were accused by the Qualified Opposition of wanting to establish customer relations with self-government and abolish a programme. We put an end to lies and brought a real program with real resources and real works. All projects under the previous "PHILOPOS I" programme were integrated with guaranteed funding under the "Antonis Tritsis". In order to make the participation of all municipalities in this programme, therefore also of the municipalities that have serious problems with their technical services and do not have the appropriate capacity, with regulation that is included in what we are voting today, the EBRD, the Hellenic Society for Local Development and Government, has the ability to sign programming contracts with the municipalities and a register of engineers, which will enable the municipalities, providing these engineers, to accelerate all the technical studies in order for the last municipality of the country to be ready to plan, study and eventually implement important projects and interventions, which will lead him to improved local development and prospects. This is our own contribution by the Ministry of Interior and the municipalities of the country and regions through this programme to the relaunching and rebuilding of the economy. It is a key element of the overall political proposal proposed by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis for a national redevelopment plan for the state and the economy in the next difficult days, with the certainty that this programme will be implemented with the best results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Minister. Mr Christodoulos Stephanades from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes. Hot pleading to keep time, because of the total of about forty one Member of Parliament, two - three have spoken. We all have to keep the time of seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u307	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the country was in front of an unprecedented situation, a pandemic, in the face of a virus which was not immune to the community, which did not know its natural course, we did not know how to deal with it. Of course, the country, like many others, fled to what is known for years, centuries ago, in quarantine. In other words, it has resorted to the restriction, which may be effective if there are two conditions, namely timely measures by the rulers and cooperation by the people. Fortunately, in our country and in time and effective measures have been taken, the people have worked together and we have had an excellent objective result, which is of course a positive one from around the world, civilised and non-civilized. Of course, from the outset we knew that the next bet is the economy. We have been successful, victoriously, in the first phase, namely saving human lives and, of course, supporting the health system, which might otherwise have collapsed, as was unfortunately the case in neighbouring countries. Ladies and gentlemen, health and the economy are inextricably linked. After having managed to control the spread of the hazardous virus, it is time to see what is now happening with the economy, with the support of society and the various measures. This is precisely the aim of the draft law which we are about to vote on, namely to strengthen public health, the economy, tourism, education, work, the environment, transport and culture. The provisions of today's bill, ladies and gentlemen, aim to take further measures in all areas of state action, as well as to protect national borders, and that is important. It is an intervention for the drastic reduction of the impact that our society experiences. PART A of the bill provides for measures to support freelance professionals, self-employed persons, owners of individual enterprises. Article 1, for example, refers to the suspension of VAT, while in the same part there are significant aid measures for these categories. In PART B, in Article 7, I am declaring some important bills, as you can see - there are incentives for many businesses, since they have not only affected those who closed up during the restriction, i.e. quarantine. Unfortunately, the market as a whole has been affected by a generalised stagnation. This draft law also provides for measures of a social nature and measures to support the institution of the family, particularly in the third part of the bill. Measures are also planned to support the institution of the citizen. Among the other things, Article ninth of PART C provides for the extension of the provision of free medical care for unsafe citizens by municipalities. The public health system is becoming very flexible. Here I will disagree with Mr. Tsakaloto, who invoked a medical equivalent to the stiff shoulder, the ice shoulder, the shoulder rage. Here we have the exact opposite. This results, objectively speaking, from the draft law. The health system is flexible and can immediately meet the new requirements. Under Article 62, PART F provides for the strengthening of the country's health infrastructure. In particular, in the Attica region, as you know, there are fifty new intensified treatment units in the "Save", after the generous sponsorship of the Greek Parliament, in an effort to be even more fortified and ready in a possible unfavourable scenario, namely a new outbreak of the pandemic. There are also measures to support the rural economy and also the Greek police. I am going to make a special reference to Article 42. This is where the Ministry of Protection of the Citizen is able to take direct action on the pressures that the country is undergoing - and we see them every day by the neighbours - because of the increase in migration flows especially at the border in Evros, but also on the islands of the Eastern Aegean. The aim is - and is derived from the bill - to shield borders as quickly as possible and quickly as possible. Border shielding should always be a priority, since both mainland and island Greece, like my prefecture, Samos, are under enormous pressure from Turkey. And I cannot today recognize a sad anniversary of a dawn of day, where our Turkish neighbours set up a communication show, a disgraceful celebration outside the symbol of Hellenism and Orthodoxy. I'm talking about Holy Sophia. In PART I, in Articles 48 and 53, the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs states that education has in fact suffered - we all know - a major blow from the pandemic. In particular, Article 48 refers to distance learning. This is important and it is worth noting that this form of teaching, with the help of always electronic means, is essential both to cover the curriculum, and - above all - to stimulate the mental health of our children. Culture, of course, is not left out of the bill. Article 54 provides for strengthening the cultural potential of our country. They are areas that supported the morality of the Greeks in these difficult times. Article 17 provides for the strengthening of tourism, as well as the promotion actions of Greece as a safe tourist destination. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the country's exceptional circumstances, the new draft law aims to address the extreme adverse consequences that this pandemic has caused in our society. I heard the President of Greek Solution describe an unfavorable scenario. He wondered if the country would survive after all this. We believe that the country has survived, survived and in the centuries of centuries it will have the future that it deserves and which comes from a bright past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Mr. Mulkiotis has the floor from the Change Movement for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, having more than two hundred articles, as our parliamentary representative has said, and having to be discussed in very few hours, is an injury to the quality of the legislative process. And that concerns all of us. I would also like to point out that two hundred parliamentary amendments have been tabled since the beginning of the parliamentary term and a hundred and twenty-four ministerial amendments have been tabled. Where's this situation going? How can the process of legislating proceed in this way? I say this because it may be a process which, perhaps, existed in the past, but it cannot continue in this way. I will also say that most of the provisions are photographic. I have seen and read - you have heard - a 'civil-type society' that has to receive the special allowance. Where did they remember her? And symptoms have forgotten the long-term unemployed in employment. Mr President, the great crisis and every crisis affecting the planet becomes a chapter in history both for the pain it causes and for the model of the 'natural' that it follows. And the model that followed the global economic crisis of 2008 included the amputation of the lower layers of income and social scale by the explosion of inequality, the shrinking of the middle class, the dangerous restriction of labour rights. And when this dust is damaged by this health crisis, it is certain that another 'normal' will appear in our country, as painful as that of the last decade, in the shadow of a new form of economic crisis. And what is, ultimately, the model that is being promoted? However, in the F report on enhanced surveillance for Greece - I will submit the English text in the minutes of May 2020 - that is to say - for a broad programme of reforms and additional commitments. This report is revealing, because neither too much nor much, as the Greek authorities say, are considering, on the basis of the pandemic, the implementation of a new broadly reduced pattern of employment, giving companies more flexibility to adapt their working hours and partly covering the pay of workers for the hours they will not work. Where did we know that then and today are legislating something, the European Commission? Therefore, the data were known in advance and the government had already made known what it will do and what it will follow. Five are the major issues, in our view, in the labour market and society. Firstly, the deregulation of labour relations and labour protection, as well as the consolidation of job precariousness with a dominant doctrine of 'half-wage, half-wage', 'half-wage, part-time', said by Mr Lovers. Secondly, there is no essential care for the unemployed, the disabled and vulnerable groups. Thirdly, bleeding of the already shrinked middle class. Any substantial measure which concerns it shall be postponed. Fourthly, the banks are responsible for over-criteria and guarantees which they impose and for state-guaranteed loans. You realize how. Fifthly, there is no marginalization of farmers, as even their reference to the problems they face is missing. Without any serious technical documentation, and in an administrative way, the legislation has laid down a basic pillar of wage measures which, by means of a legislative act, wants to reduce general wages by 20%. The Change Movement has put progressive and costly but also sustainable in the world of work in the public debate. Who's that? Granted by the State of 40% of the wages of a million private workers for full-time employment, provided that there are no redundancies and no budget burden and a guarantee of the insurance system's revenues. The Greek society judges and compares. Ladies and gentlemen, the only protection net for decent living is the already inadequate and unacceptable minimum wage limit. The minimum wage is deferred by the Act of Legislative Content for January 2021, while it could well, because it has been pending since 2019, to have been settled and documented now. Secondly, young scientists are not counted. And it's not even counting on vouchers, which we said a few days ago. Here I would like to mention the exclusion of lawyers from this aid, which they should also receive. Voice voice in the wilderness. It has been said by this position several times. The government is deaf. So how does this provocative, rude behaviour translate to the lawyers in this professional class? Thirdly, a great challenge again mentioned in this act of legislation: and what is that? EAB. He said the Minister didn't hear anything about the LAPD. Where'd he hear it? He's gone. And the whole Treasury is missing. They are absent from the Ministry of Finance from the OAB, to which OAB belongs. He's a major shareholder. Mr President, if the leadership of the Ministry of Finance had visited EAV - which has not visited it for many years - it would have understood that what it has brought about is an unfortunate regulation. It's an unacceptable arrangement. It is a regulation that concerns over a period of time, until a new CSM is issued and causes too many problems in CSM today. And not only can't solve them, but it's doing more damage. We have tabled a proposal for a specific, amendment, on what legislation should include and on what other provisions should be withdrawn in order to bring about calm and continue its work. The proposal is very specific because it refers to a given situation that exists and ends when a decision is taken with the CSM by the committee that has been engaged in and finished its work. The political leadership has never dealt with the committee because it has never regulated the heavy and unhealthy professions sector, and has remained unresolved. Thirdly, as far as the Greek Defence Systems are concerned, there is no link between the leadership of the Ministry of Finance and the space. He's never been there. He's never visited them. We ask for our amendment to continue to give the allowance for unhealthy and dangerous work that is responsible and that the board of directors gives it, because it knows that there is a very heavy industry and that no one else can go there, as in the EAA is a very heavy industry. It is not a luxurious situation, and that is why they give the premium for heavy and unhealthy work. It is a mistake and it is a crime that the leadership of the Treasury does in relation to these two industries. For ODA in particular, because the Minister invoked it, I have to tell him that we have taken the floor to the committee - and our rapporteur and I - have told him, but it does not seem to have been informed, told him what happened and not done. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say on the amendment on industrial relations, that we would very much like to vote on it because it also contains positive provisions, but the climate to which this amendment refers is not favourable - in what sense? - because it refers to a situation beyond labour relations in permanently reduced employment. This is a political position of the Change Movement. We do not vote for it, although the other articles also have positive provisions. And if it were the other articles alone, we'd see how we could move on. But in this way we cannot vote for the amendment and vote against it. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the work has kept society up in this difficult period. So it is not possible to work with the changes that are coming here to be the one that will take over and the cost. Measures and arrangements to protect work should now be promoted. This is the basic way to ensure that the economic crisis is not transformed into a deep social crisis and a political crisis. If the government doesn't understand it, the country doesn't have any luck. As for communications rhetoric and to use all the money to invade European funds, the government must understand that there is no saving without workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u310	I call on the New Democracy MEP, Ms Maria - Alexandra Head. You have the floor, my colleague, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u311	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the last few months have shown how unforeseen life, political, social, economic. They showed us that within very little time they can change habits that were thought to be entrenched and given, to change our way of life. No one in this Chamber, but those who are watching us outside of it, could imagine that 2020 would evolve as we have experienced and continue to experience it. The last few months have been completely teaching. Values and behaviors, forces and weaknesses, political sizes and actions have been measured. This whole period marked each and every one of us in our country and throughout the world with the consequences of this pandemic being, beyond, the narrow health data, deep social and economic. Many will be very affected for too long. Today we are finishing the debate in plenary and we are ratifying the last two legislative acts with urgent measures to tackle the horn pandemic. We close a circle of interventions, a cycle of emergency support and support measures, agencies, businesses and workers, all of them, which have been most affected by the unprecedented health crisis. From this step I feel the need to congratulate the Prime Minister, the Government with the relevant ministries and the scientific bodies that have led our Greece - this difficult period - safely and confidently. We are lucky that the wheel of the country was located and is located Kyriakos Mitsotakis. He made decisions in time and in the light of the protection of human life, he did not hesitate to take the necessary measures that eventually saved thousands of lives and, most importantly, he managed to convince the Greek people to comply with the measures. Speaking sincerely and clearly, the overwhelming majority of our fellow citizens, regardless of their political convictions, not only understood the criticalness of the situation, but also accepted what he said in detail. I must, of course, also recognise the real support of all the political world in the country which has shown little misgivings to recognise the correctness of the government's actions, at least as far as the health part of this crisis is concerned. Greece has risen level, an example has been made, leaving a strong reserve for the future. I will not go into the details of the bill, as all its parts have been sufficiently developed and analysed by our rapporteur and the ministers. But let me stand as a doctor in the health ministry's achievements at this time. The Ministry's political leadership with Mr. Kiklia and Mr. Kontozamanis proved that when there is will and determination, the result is far beyond noteworthy. Not only did we prove that there is a state but that it also works for the benefit of the citizen. Within a minimum period of time and with the help of many individuals, intensive care units in public hospitals have increased from five hundred sixty-five to over a thousand and then, with the aim of reaching the thousands of two hundred beds and the European average, about four and a half beds per 100 000 inhabitants. The steps are fast and in the right direction. The initial schedule for two thousand health recruitments has not only been implemented, but has been overtaken by nearly double the number of medical, nursing and auxiliary staff in hospitals. New health recruitments shield and ensure the proper functioning of the entire spectrum, starting from primary care and reaching the specialized hospitals at every corner of the country. The health system has endured this as well - by correcting pathogens and drawing positive lessons from the successful treatment of the coronary - we will build the new National Health System, as the Prime Minister himself has committed. The citizen's relationship with the public health system has now changed and changed for the better. And if a second wave of our coronary hits in the next few months, we're in a much better position to deal with it than the first one. We did very well in line with the conditions. It's not all done, it's a lot happened and it's been done in a short time. Health still needs work and operational and administrative reforms. Those of us who come from the space know it very well. I am given the opportunity, Minister, to pass on from this Step one of my region's years for restructuring the health map and administratively with a more operational and flexible management model, and I mean a new health region in the region of Epirus, which now belongs to the huge 6th RCF. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I am standing in the Ministry of Digital Governance, which operates with accelerator, has put the country in the digital era as quickly as possible, enabling the citizen to exploit the Internet and new technologies, reducing the cordial of bureaucracy, making our daily lives easier and easier to access, such as issuing certificates and registrations, signing authorisations, submitting applications and many more services, saving us from effort and time. It happened in a few months that hadn't happened in years. Workers and businesses saw the state of arable and ally. The interventions of the Ministry of Economic and Social Affairs with emergency aid, tax relief and the collaborative framework were in the right direction. We have also heard the workers and businesses, small and medium-sized. The immediate objective was clear, to absorb and to reduce the effects of the crisis, to help workers and employers return to new reality, to preserve social cohesion and together to move forward. The package of measures announced by the government for the next few months is about to testify to the will for as painless as possible with strategic planning and well-scheduled steps, with an ally of the European Union and in this battle we will be making winners. Ladies and gentlemen, the first battle has been won. Yes, our economy this year will have a recession. Yes, the war with the invisible enemy is not over yet. Yeah, they opened wounds. Our country, however, comes out of all this test with a pretext for the future, a pride that we all did it together, that we stood up to the circumstances. We declare ourselves ready for restarting and recovering. We're standing, we're moving forward and we're going to succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, too, for the time economy. I call to Stepma the MP of SYRIZA, Mr. Athanasios Papadopoulos, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u313	The economic tragedy of the pandemic has put political forces in test in all the countries of the world, obviously both in the united Europe and in Greece. The communication from SYRIZA of a global proposal of 13.43 billion euros for the measures to be taken, sets the bar of political confrontation very high, as well as comparisons of which of the political plans are closer to the complex tasks of dealing with the tragedy. Mr. Stavros is not here, nor is Mr. Skylakakis. It is not a question of Euclid Tsakalots or a whole of SYRIZA, the depth of the recession. The question, ladies and gentlemen, is what options we will be able to manage to prevent the recession, far more than 6%, provided by the Governor of the Bank of Greece, from causing unemployment, new poverty and inequalities to erupt. Here, all government measures do not face the depth of the devastating recession, nightmare unemployment more than 20%, the closure of thousands of businesses, the middle-aged labour market, rotating work with reduced wages and many other consequences for the world of culture, production, focus, tourism. The measures, because you have also raised a question of comparison, do not provide for the possibility of disbursing funds from our country of 22.5 billion grants, such as the ones that we have made for unreversed aid of 3 billion to small and medium-sized enterprises. Why can't it be done? Is anyone gonna answer? Why is there no possibility of an emergency income of 3.5 billion for four million beneficiaries, unemployed, precarious workers, farmers, people with disabilities, artists, self-employed? On the crucial issues of the country's health shield against pandemic, its expected autumn relapse, but also the possibility for Greece to be a safe tourist destination, the central responsibility of the government was to see all the possibilities available so that, when all society prioritises health as a fundamental human right and public good, to shield hospitals, health centers, regional medical services, proceed to the issues that organise hospitality at home, health rehabilitation, and guarantee equal access for every resident and guest of the country. This shield with the contribution of national and European resources from the Recovery Fund, the European Social Fund, as well as the ESRB, the Public Investment Programme, the EEAY, even donations, would place our country as a safe and attractive tourist destination in every corner of Greece, as Greece attracts visitors for all forms of tourism. If we look at the specific measures taken by the Ministry of Health and the government as a whole, we will find that they are far away from being able to talk about armoring health services throughout the country. And this issue puts much more specific tasks in view of the possibilities available in how they can be translated into concrete interventions. So, what are you doing to have permanent medical, nursing staff in hospitals, health centers, primary health care? What are you doing specifically? Do you claim that you have an ancillary staff over four thousand, as you say, the tired human potential of the National Health System, which will also be faced with the relapse of the pandemic in the autumn? Didn't he have to publish many thousands of other jobs by now? You lost all 2019. We in an overall plan of ten thousand hirings over four years had two thousand five hundred in 2019. You didn't make a call and you're on now. Don't you care about a permanent staff in the National Health System? I think the answer comes after what Mr Mitsotakis said about the question of how the new National Health System can imagine. What's he saying? It's gonna be, it says, with an PPP. It will be possible for various investors in modern medical equipment to be able to speculate on the use of the machinery they provide. It will be without full and exclusive employment for doctors. Will it be with all those who do not give the opportunity for a quality and integrated national health system, and that is what we care even more, and from our islands and big and small and other tourist sites comes the agony: Can we really guarantee that there will be those structures that will provide security? I'm hanging up. I think that what is the issue with which we need to deal with the whole of our tasks is to come out of the pandemic standing up from the first phase in which the tasks were and more easily, to get out wiser and more insightful for what is before us. And here, for us, is that with our proposals, which we are confronting with the neoliberal plan, we want to convince ourselves of the possibility of an allied progressive alternative government solution on the basis of a specific progressive programme of fair and sustainable development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u314	We are also grateful to Mr Papadopoulos for keeping time. I call to Stepma Mr. Argentine from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u315	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I begin my speech, I would like to thank the Deputy Minister of State at the Step of the House, Mr. Kontozamanis, as well as the Governor of the 6th Health Region, Mr. Karveli, for the fact that Zakynthos after eight years of suffering, Mr. Deputy Minister, has now been entrusted with an adequate number of personnel, so that the island of Zakynthos can finally be safe for its inhabitants, but at the same time a safe destination for the visitors. At the same time, it is not only the security that we won with the opening of the unit, but you should know that this is how we managed to return EUR 37 million back to the European Union, due to the fact that we had not completed the operation of the hospital which was with the ESDP programme. Ladies and gentlemen, today's health ministry's draft law ratifys the last two legislative acts with urgent measures to deal with the coronary pandemic. In this way, a circle closes, we pass to the next phase and lay the foundations so that by steps that we pass as quickly as possible and smoothly as possible on the opposite bank, on the bank of growth and progress. First I would also like to congratulate the Prime Minister, the Government and the scientific bodies who have immediately and effectively taken steps to limit the spread of the coronary and the protection of human life in an unprecedented health crisis. With the contribution of all of us, and above all the self-sacrificing of people of health, but also the absolute compliance with the measures, our country has managed to set a bright example for Europe and for the whole world. In fact, the Government of New Democracy managed to confront the coronary crisis with considerable success and the refugee crisis. Against Turkey that does not miss an opportunity to put pressure on Greece and blackmail Europe, Greece once again rises its stature. It is a matter of serious consideration that the situation is responding calmly and effectively, as is appropriate in a sovereign state. However, I am returning to the health crisis, the financial result of which is indeed important. Every day we are all witnessing an unprecedented situation. We see huge economies facing increasing unemployment rates, closures of businesses and overall their economies shattered. This would be impossible not to touch our country. In the light of these facts, the Government's attitude is to take timely measures and to limit rapidly and effectively the spread of the new krone. Moving on to today's draft law, some of the most important arrangements for the first act of legislation that is currently being ratified are arrangements for extending the arrangements for previous legislative acts to support enterprises, arrangements for the care of patients, a new framework for the remote provision of medical services, arrangements for intangible prescribing and much more. In addition, important issues such as the protection of first residence, the extension of favourable previous MDG arrangements for a smooth return to normality, the safe reopening of schools, the supply of necessary health and personal protective equipment and, of course, the provision of social distance rules are regulated by the second legislative act. This bill introduces arrangements such as, for example, the implementation of the commitment to substantial support of the ESS with the establishment of several positions of medical and nursing staff for the new IFs created with the help of donations in the context of the pandemic, the provision of exceptional financial support to staff employed in IFs or MATs, the placement of Coronary patients, the further extension of the 25% discount to the contributions for May and the corresponding extension of the measure to the reduction of the rent and much more. And I now come to the rhetoric that develops, without any contraction, the Acoustic Opposition, while it is well aware that we are all faced with a health crisis of unprecedented proportions, a crisis that is global and above all dynamic and not static. The Government constantly assesses the new data and takes appropriate measures. We are walking in uncharted waters and day after day we are learning and reacting according to situations, which no one knows how to develop. It seems that only in Census, they know where the crisis ends. So you come and swing the finger while you've been in power for four and a half years and while you have had the opportunity to raise the wages to health and recruitment to do and ICU to make, you have done absolutely nothing. And don't tell me you did everything well. And because we are losing ourselves by talking about the whole health system in Greece, let's see what happened in a small place like the island I represent. Four-and-a-half years the hospital operated underfunded with 1.5 million less, so that it could finally operate with dignity. It is a fact that, while we hire ninety-one persons with subsidiary staff, the forty-five have been placed, that is, they will not reach either. That's what we're talking about! And because today I have been listening all day since the morning that there was a staffing, that they had been recruited, what I see from at least my area and from my hospital is that things had reached an impoverished point. Two things can happen. Maybe it was all right in the rest of Zante and we could forget about it. I don't want to believe that Zakynthos was forgotten and that he finally stayed so behind in the health field. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we support public and private partnerships, especially in times of crisis, as a financial instrument. Under no circumstances does New Democracy support the private sector at such a point as to say that it can replace or replace the public sector. We should also mention - and it is unfair not to say so - that the contribution of the 6th Health Region to ensuring the staffing, preparedness and health competence of all hospitals subject to it was exemplary. We significantly upgraded public health. Refusal to understand that the 6th Health Region together with the Ministry of Health contributed to the overall improvement of public health in the areas covered. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the government successfully passed the first critical phase of this unprecedented pandemic. He managed to restore our country's lost authority. Large news agencies refer to Greece as a model country in the management of the health crisis. The feeling of pride that we have always felt as Greek citizens was then recovered. From now on, what matters is that we do not lose the opportunity to stand up both in social and economic terms. And we will stand up, uniting all our forces with stubborn and hard work and always acting on the basis of expert instructions and suggestions, we will win the lost ground and re-enter development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u316	Mr George Marinos has the floor for seven minutes. Here, Mr Marino, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Mr President. The government's attempt to have a climate of artificial euphoria and to cover the class anti-grassroots character of its policy is in perverse contrast to reality, which stresses that the tens of billions advertised by the government staff and the European Union have a destination, the funds of large companies that collect grants, fruit the tax exemptions and increase the exploitation of workers. This is done by legislative acts, and this will be done with the European Union's so-called Development Fund, on which the New Democracy celebrates, and SYRIZA considers this to be a good thing. All to enhance the profitability of economic groups, to shield themselves against the capitalist crisis. This is what Mr Brutsis, the Minister of Employment, Mr Stagioras, Mr Vorides and the other government officials, as well as the executives of SYRIZA, KINAL, Mr Varoufakis, each of their own management. The main thing is who's paying. They pay the employees, the self-employed, the bio-opportunist farmers. They pay workers and workers and will pay more expensively the packages that enjoy big capital, while narrowing down in the workplace from barbaric labour relations, part-time and rotating employment, low wages. They are sterilizing with thousands of redundancies and high unemployment. People's families are starving at the tragic situation, Minister, of the public health system. Try to drop the cubit as low as possible. There are thirty thousand shortages of doctors and nursing staff in hospitals and you are charming for three and a half thousand recruitments and not with full and stable work. This is terrible, because if I bring my experience from Central, from the hospitals of Chalkida, Thebes, Livadia, Lamia and other areas, all that you say is broken down and exposed irreparably. There is a hopeful development, and this is the struggles of the workers, the struggles in the health sector, the struggles in tourism - foodism, which faced the harsh government repression in yesterday's mobilisations, the struggles of the workers of LARCO, the seamen and all the workers. They're with the JRC. In my speech I shall shortly be standing on two issues, namely the seafarers and the 'LARCO'. The Government of New Democracy and all governments have given everything to logistics and seafaring rights are being violated. In the first shipping in the world, with thousands of ships and huge profits, thousands of seafarers suffer from unemployment, insecurity, undermining collective agreements, and intensification of labour. In these circumstances, under Article 64 of the first act of legislation, the Government is further reducing organic compositions. This is a great challenge, which is expensive, at the expense of the safety of ships and the lives of those on board, at the expense of the right to work. The seafarers will fight this anti-energy policy. Hundreds of seafarers are waiting to get out of the way. The government whistles indifferently and uses various pretexts, and the JRC now demands that the problem be resolved and that the repatriation of the crews awaiting it is ensured. The Communist Party of Greece has tabled an amendment to LARCO, a strategic business and we are asking for it to be put to the vote. Last February we condemned the government abortion, the bill leading to privatisation, the closure of LARCO. We warned that Haul's bourgeoisie is being opened and more than a thousand two hundred workers are being driven to unemployment and all the counties, of Phthiotida, Evia, Boeotia, Kastoria, Kozani, in aeronism. We have documented the need to continue the operation of the 'LARCO'. We highlighted the truth about the so-called debts to PPC and the carpets that LARCO pays for electricity. We have revealed the false state funding and the fine of the European Union, and while it is now shown that hundreds of businesses in our country and thousands in Europe are financed with high amounts from state and Euro-Union funds, the government through the clearer, who has appointed, implements its dissolution plan. He sealed the mine of "LARCO" in the Prefecture of Kastoria. He threw more than 7 million euros into big-workers in Evia. He's prepping the dowry for the aspiring buyer. Under government responsibility, only one of the five furnaces operates at the Larymna factory. While disgusting government mechanisms are organising a dirty slandering campaign for workers, who have spurred blood for so many years and have mourned over eighty dead, the amendment tabled by the JRC Parliamentary Group raises crucial issues for the operation of the company, the protection of workers, the protection of all workers and workers. Among other things, it provides for the abolition of Article 21 of Law 4664/2020 and the power of the Special Administrator, the cancellation of wage reductions, the signing of an operational collective agreement, the compensation of the families of the victims of Larco from anti-government policy, the incorporation of workers, the status of hired workers or contractors or a service note directly to Larco by an indefinite contract, the exercise of the administration of Larco by a five-member committee. Finally, the amendment contains a plan to ensure proprietary heavy mining and infrastructure for repairs and maintenance, construction of a stainless steel, cobalt and pure nickel plant, construction of treatment plants for all by-products. The Communist Party of Greece was, is, is and will be on the side of the employees of LARCO. It firmly opposes the long-term policy of depreciation implemented by the governments of the New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA and gives the battle to prevent the current government from putting the tombstone on the business. The conditions for exploiting the mineral wealth for the benefit of our people are struggling to satisfy the working people's needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u318	For four minutes, the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Theocharis, has the floor, in order to lay down provisions contained in the bill, the competence of his Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u319	Thank you very much, Mr President. In fact, I have just asked for the floor to be on the amendment that has been added to this bill, with which our ministry begins - with the financing of the NSRP, and, through the Ministry of Development, the European funds - of the Tourism for All - to strengthen domestic tourism. This amendment is very important because it shows that the draft announced by this government is already being implemented and implemented in the time to be implemented, without delay. We heard a lot last week about our Ministry's diving bill and there we had a homogenisation - as you know and heard, those who were here - from questions, concerns and questions about internal tourism and how it will be strengthened. So I also want this opportunity to make a few things clear. The Government recognises the importance of domestic tourism, especially this year, especially at this point in time, and that is why it supports with three initiatives - apart from a special promotional programme, which is the fourth initiative - with three essential initiatives the internal tourism of our country. The first is to increase the funds for social tourism to the tune of 30 million, a well-known OAS programme, which in recent years has, of course, been declining in funds. We are here to increase it to 30 million. The second initiative is already being processed by the Ministry of Finance and is a programme of at least EUR 10 million for the tax relief of businesses to give their employees coupons so that the private sector can strengthen domestic tourism by giving tax incentives, as they already do with voucher for other cases. The third is the revival of the Tourism Programme for all, with 30m euros. Therefore, at least EUR 70 million - perhaps even EUR 80 million - is the money that the Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis has decided to go to support domestic tourism. The "Tourism for All" programme is a programme that I recently remind my dear colleagues was implemented in 2013-2014, with a government in New Democracy. Today it goes too far to hear from the opposition crocodile tears about domestic tourism and how much this government does not support it. Of course, it strengthens him, not with the extra-real amounts simply thrown from the Step of the House. The EUR 1 billion or more is things that have no basis for reality. The 'Tourism for All' programme, as I said, will start with July 1st, will be financed with funds from the ESRB, with at least two hundred and fifty thousand beneficiaries and will always look to the point in European rules, as many tourist businesses as possible. It will be an essential programme, which will be able to help crucially now, but will have a duration by the end of the year, so that it can be implemented and help the world of low and medium-incomes, to move tourism, to help tourism businesses wake up. That is why it is not only about low incomes, but also about medium incomes, to mobilise more funds that can be put into the market. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Allow me, Mr President, to say a few words more broadly, because there are also a number of speakers from colleagues who are blaming us for the absence of the Ministry of Tourism and they have not asked a question about tourism themselves. I have not seen where their presence is, unless what they mean is the presence on the channels, television democracy. We are, however, a ministry - and I myself, at least personally, as I understand the policy - which respects the institutions. We're here. From this step I presented for the first time the four axes of our plan for relaunching tourism. We were here, then, when we explained to Parliament the health and economic elements of such a plan, the issues of our country's promotion and, of course, the diplomatic evidence. And we were here after our announcement last week of these steps, which will be followed to open up Greek tourism. The reason why I am here is precisely because I hear everyone's agony. So our Ministry has consistently taken all these steps, because the Ministry has been here since the beginning of the crisis, when we had to ensure that the measures of the Ministry of Labour are directed at all the tourist workers. We worked in harmony with the Ministry of Labour and the workers' associations and federations. Mr. Hodgeglou, we speak almost daily to make sure that all the workers are covered. With the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Development our cooperation so that we can solve one - one of the issues raised by the measures taken - was daily, up to yesterday, for the measure of extending for sixty days the cheques of tourism operations. This is done through cooperation and, of course, with the Ministry of Health - I end, Mr President, I know your concern for the other colleagues - and with EGE, with the infectious agents, so that our country can first have the health protocols to be a model for the other countries, but of course also give us the lead that our country is entitled to. And he deserves it, because the Prime Minister has made good and quick decisions, because the government has worked and is working in coordination and we are bringing these results. And, of course, it is time to move to the next stage of the opening of the economy with caution. And I end with this: I stress that the opening up of tourism responds to the agony of the hundreds of thousands of tourist workers, all of whom want to find work. But he does it wisely and with caution. We announced today the list of countries with only health criteria, not other criteria. We therefore take care to ensure that the opening is careful and gradual. We use sample checks so that our epidemiologists have all the data and can have control of the situation, as we had and have it in the gradual opening up of internal restrictions. We put strict sanitary protocols so that there is no health risk from possible cases. And finally, of course, we are strengthening the last destination - and that is what I want every hotel owner, every professional tourist, every worker, and the last corner of the Greek land - whether he is in Athens, whether he is on the smallest island, with the power of our health system, a system that the Ministry of Health has strengthened throughout this entire period, took it in worse shape than he has reached it today and will strengthen it even further. The plan drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, with the EGE and, of course, with the Committee on Infectiouss and Civil Protection, which will have many operational parts of this project, will be such a project that will enable us to open up tourism and will all be confident that their health is safe. As the Greek citizens have had it all along, the last guest in this country will have it. I therefore close by saying that the Ministry of Tourism was during the crisis here and helped. It is during the planning of market opening here and will be every day of this difficult tourist season to rebuild from the zero point our tourism has reached even more solid bases.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u320	Close, Minister. You've said ten times that you're closing. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u321	You're right, but you know how important this matter is for the entire Greek people. Those who blame us and blame the government, Mr President, are the ones who are nervous, not whether Greek tourism will be opened, but whether the New Democracy will succeed in the economic field, as it has achieved in the health field, because then they will have no arguments and later, as they did not have all this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u322	Before calling on the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Buga, to give you a brief briefing we are. They are registered to speak for another thirty Members. With an intervention where we could, i.e. toward New Democracy, four write-offs have been made. In other words, four Members, whom we thank, will not take the floor. We're coming in in twenty-six. It is to speak for a moment yet another Minister, Mr Plakatakis, the Minister who has not spoken at all, Mr Kontozamanis and twenty-six colleagues. If you make them accountable, with the seven minutes of colleagues, with half a minute of tolerance, they exceed three and a half hours. So add the ministers and the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative who will speak right now, so we will be over four and a half hours. If you look at the clock, we go a lot after midnight. That is why my proposal is that the remaining colleagues should be six minutes, so that, once again all six minutes, we can even win half an hour. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u323	Thank you very much, Mr President. A legislative improvement I would like to make in the amendment - an addition to the draft law of the Ministry of Health. Article 28 of the draft law shall be deleted and the other Articles shall be renumbered accordingly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u324	To be distributed to the rapporteurs and the parties. After Mr. Buga, Mr. Salmas will have the floor. And then, Mr. Placiotakis, if you're ready, you'll take the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u325	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been attending the meeting since the beginning and have attended the speeches of all the speakers. I note that those colleagues who spoke from the Qualifications and from Elassonan Opposition not only did they not make any specific criticism of the articles of the bill, but I did not see any opposition strategy being present. Well, it didn't seem like where SYRIZA is going in opposition. Of course, there was no constructive remark on the individual articles. Even the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, when he completed his speech, obviously left because of impotent arguments. The government of the country, ladies and gentlemen, is still, as it is evident to all Greek citizens, playing a game against the stunning of an unprecedented pandemic. Until today we have recorded successes, of course, thanks to the brutal efforts and exemplary responses of the Greek people. Our aim is for society to stand and for the economy to restart. The government's measures shall be mobilised by means of legislative acts. It is the so-called 'right of need', as has been rightly described. The primary objective of government policy, as set out by the Prime Minister himself, is to support employment and maintain jobs. We are getting winners out of the battle with the disease, and this means that we are going to the next phase with our economy alive and ready to recover, with employers able to keep their businesses and workers to their jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, the ministers who are today proposing to vote in favour of the provisions of this draft law, a draft law which extends its rules to the whole range of government policy, but also to the Members of the New Democracy who have received the floor, have been clearly and perfectly adequate on the issues contained in the provisions. I will certainly not repeat their points. I shall confine myself to specific points which I consider to be crucial and which I shall try to respond to as many objections as were specifically raised by the Opposition. The two acts that we are called upon to ratify today are in two levels. The first concerns health, and the second concerns the economy. The public health sector is being substantially strengthened. We doubled the beds of the intensive care unit and increased by about four thousand people the staff of the public hospitals. Of course, Mr Minister, there are still shortcomings. I take this opportunity to mention the significant shortcomings presented by the Amphissa Hospital. Because of the uncertainties of the previous government, the hospital's pathological clinic was closed. We are trying to reoperate it, but the intake of medical pathologists is urgently needed. The figures are undeniable and, to their credit, there are serious SYRIZA officials who recognise the successful management by the current government. However, we have heard other colleagues from the Qualified Opposition, whose misguided arguments have led them to a general and unequivocal rejection of the proposed arrangements. In their inability to exert a constructive opposition they spoke about "terrorized Greek citizens", to render there the success of the Greek government, which is being exposed by the largest international media. The second level of the arrangements in the draft law concerns, as I have said before, the economy, the major economic and unfortunately inevitable consequences that are afflicting the whole planet. The warning difference that brought us to the international scene, as a successful model of state operation, is that the Greek Government instantly managed to protect public health, achieve support and soon enter a development path in the economy. Articles 3 to 6 of the Ministry of Finance and Articles 15, 17 and 18 of the Ministry of Labour are precisely regulations aimed at supporting business and business sectors of professionals and workers. Through the extension of the 25% deduction for tax and insurance contributions to those who have the opportunity to pay them in the short term, an additional incentive is given but also a reward to all those who in the current situation remain consistent with their obligations and thus contribute to the country's recovery. This debate is taking place in the light of the happy development of the European Commission's proposals for a package of around EUR 750 billion to support the economies of the European States. This is a tangible demonstration of European solidarity and of the will of the peoples of Europe to face together, with a joint effort and uniting their powers, this crisis. Greece is one of the countries that will benefit most from the programme. The EUR tens of billion strengthened financial package can be used to trigger a dynamic relaunching of the economy for the benefit of Greek citizens. The European Commission has adopted all four proposals put forward by Greece for the support programme. Assuming first, it's enough money. In other words, it is a big aid programme to provide confidence that it can fulfil its purpose. Second condition, to be flexible. That is to say, it extends beyond the traditional actions and to actions necessary for the development of the economies of the European States. Thirdly, it should be based more on grants and less on loans. Fourthly, and equally important, we need to finance joint loans. The overpriced EUR 32 or 33 billion of the Commission's plan for our country from the so-called Recovery Fund is estimated to have a multiplier effect on our economy. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, which has led the small Greece to receive great recognition worldwide, also now guarantees that this money will be used to the full. The government, in its wise and serious attitude, managed to treat our country as an equal member of the European Union. The financial aid I mentioned is already acting and acting within a wider framework of regulations which have been reached following the intervention of the Government and Prime Minister. For example, there is no budgetary objective for a primary surplus of 3.5%. We have the greatest possible flexibility in the absorption of the NRP's resources with reallocations between programmes and greater flexibility in the rules governing State aid. Our country is taking part by decision of the European Central Bank in the programme of quantitative relaxation, which we have wasted in previous years. We have also won the participation of Greek bonds as a pledge of the European Central Bank. Ladies and gentlemen, aid from the European Union, and also the backbone of the supportive measures that I have described, give us the confidence that we can implement our programme as a whole, the main axis of which is the reduction of taxes. There was a report by colleagues who spoke before me about reductions in incomes. No income reduction occurs. And, of course, we will try not to create any job losses. We are taking emergency measures for workers, but without changing their working relationships to the least. In addition, colleagues from SYRIZA referred to the programme "We stay upright". Of course, the impact of this programme is known in Greek society. Nobody's paid attention. It was a opposition firework of SYRIZA, which unfortunately did not raise anyone's awareness. These developments allow us to optimise the next day and prepare, as we do with the measures we are taking to support our tourism, the relaunch of the tourism sector. Our aim is not to lose the tourist season completely and to support businesses and workers in tourism. Let me make a reference to Rule 69, because there has been an objection from a colleague from the Com mittee on Direct Awards. Indeed, in order to be able to benefit as much as possible, Article 69 provides for direct awards, but in this case very serious condition and guarantee: the repressive control of expenditure by the Court of Auditors. So you realise that in this insurance system there is no room for anyone to mean that these assignments can be made in a non-transparent manner. It is also worth noting - and I think I will not spend my time, Mr President - the amendment by the Ministry of Justice on the reopening of the courts. The Ministry of Justice aims, as the Minister has said, to reduce the costs of reinstatement of justice, that is to say, that the parties, the citizens, should not be imposed, at the cost of redefining the cases and, of course, to avoid aggregation in the courts. For this reason, significant technical possibilities are introduced, mainly by electronic communication of the identification of the new courts to the parties. Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft legislation being passed, the last two legislative acts are ratified with the urgent measures to deal with the horn pandemic. This concludes a cycle of emergency measures before the restrictions were phased out, which started on May 4th, which supports almost all sectors of the economy and almost all Greek citizens, especially those belonging to the vulnerable categories. As the Prime Minister said, the ‘Health or Development’ dilemma is a false copy. The sooner we take measures, the more effective we protect public health, the sooner we return to development. This has also proved to be our course to date. So we will continue on the path of responsibility, efficiency and establishment of our country in a position of international leadership. The vote in favour of the entire bill is, I hope, the last step with which we come out of the extraordinary juncture that has tried hard both us and our country, such as the whole of the planet. At the same time, however, it is also the first and decisive step of our entry into a new era, a time when we have every reason to see it with optimism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, too, for keeping time. I see the time that the parliamentary representatives have spoken, you have spoken at least among all of them. I call in the Step for six minutes, the New Democracy MP, Mr. Salma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr President. I, too, have watched most of the speakers in the current bill since this morning. I would like to make two comments. The first point is that it is obvious that the political staff of the country, which I attach to the prior maturation of Greek citizens and voters who do not want populism, do not applaud, but applaud seriousness, support what is right and judge what is not right. It is one of the reasons why the New Democracy has arrived in the rule of the country for many years. My second point concerns the injustice of the way in which parliamentary democracy is used to operate in our country. The established and tight tactics of a party's speakers to be on a line, always the government to take everything again, to judge everything. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill was an opportunity to agree all of us, and it was an opportunity for opposition to agree with one another. The policies that this bill has are not right, they are not central, they are not left. They're realism-based policies. People who know the issues sat on a table with the political staff of the government and made decisions critical at a uniquely difficult time, with an unknown enemy, such as the coronary, who so far is unknown, and there are doubts as to when the vaccine will come out and when it will be treated. And it's not over, it's open. I therefore think - and I will not make any reference to the opposition - that the opposition should reasonably be divided into something, differentiated, but I think that the tons have been kept low and we have silently accepted what the Greek people have reflected in the polls when they are asked today, that he is pleased in the majority of the manipulations of Mr Mitsotakis and the government. And I will say that it honors the Prime Minister who took this whole thing upon him, and the country that was recognised internationally in the way he handled the health crisis. So we're making some assumptions. Don't break the logic. Firstly, the health crisis, which is not over and is due to the coronary, has been dealt with successfully. We had two models of political leaders on the planet. Those who gave priority to health, save the lives of people and others who gave priority to the economy, defying the lives. They all accounted for, and it turns out that those who gave priority to health first, will also save the economy faster. Because if tourism has a hope this year, it is precisely because now the publications are that we are a country with a low number of cases, which we were affected at least by the virus. Therefore, Kyriakos Mitsotakis is in the category of those who well predicted. Secondly, on this occasion the National Health System is also being shielded, since so many intensive care units beds are added and a thousand eight hundred doctors and nursing staff will not see at least the phenomenon of taking the EMAS and having twenty-eight people waiting to find someone who needs an intensive care unit. Thirdly, it is mutually acceptable that the social fabric, too, was based on the crisis as long as the economy, the budget, could support it. I wish we were a richer country, more money and more support for workers. And it remains the management of the economic crisis. Management of the economic crisis is at the beginning. So no one can be sure of the criticism of the government, because the government is taking measures, based on a algorithm plan and the prospect of its consequences, but also by seeing and doing. We don't know what's going to take dawn in ten days in a week. Therefore, this uncertainty also creates an uncertainty for all of us when we are placed, which does not allow us to be fully placed. Evidently, business will be supported. The state does not produce wealth. The State can intervene to support the enterprises that will have the workers. I have heard - and I am closing down with that, Mr President - that the whole debate is actually going around the economy. I was interested to hear Mr. Varoufakis. It was a position that was on the theoretical issues, how much is the recession this year, that the Minister should commit himself if he is 5%, 7%, 12%. However, there were no different approaches and proposals on the substance. Finally, I have heard Mr Tsakalotos, who I admit has surprised me with something. Spyros, he was aware of the difference in the impact syndrome, addressing you with the frozen shoulder. Half the orthopedics don't know that either. But Mr. Chakalotos must have known. He did not, of course, relate to his criticism of the Prime Minister. In any case, I think that, in the sadness of the crisis, we must be optimistic and happy and hope that the government will continue to do so, despite the fact that the opposition - I cannot say it - can sometimes be indifferently benefit from the failure of a government. However, no one should rejoice when a government fails to have a people like the Greeks on its back.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u328	I give the floor to the Minister for Maritime Affairs, Mr Placiotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u329	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the House today endorses two very important legislative acts, which have taken significant and timely steps to tackle the coronary pandemic. These are measures which have contributed decisively so that our country today is a global model, both in terms of limiting the consequences of the pandemic and, of course, in terms of supporting the relaunch of both the economy and society. I will not analyse the measures taken by the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. Besides, they're familiar. However, I would like to mention the results of these measures which, in cooperation with and with the relevant services of the EGE, the Ministry of Health and Civil Protection, were taken in a timely manner, decisively and which resulted in: Firstly, we must protect the health of our islands and especially of the inhabitants of the small islands. In most of the islands we had absolutely no case. And that, you know, is the great legacy of our country. Secondly, we have ensured the uninterrupted communication between mainland and island Greece. Thirdly, we have supported both our shipping and our seafarers, businesses and workers in the sector, with concrete measures and initiatives, which I shall then analyse. As far as our shipping is concerned, it is not just one of the most important branches of the Greek economy, but it is one of the strategic branches of our economy, since it ensures territorial continuity between mainland and island Greece. How did we support her? We supported it with EUR 15 million from national resources. In this way, thirty-four routes have been subsidised. Who imagined we subsidising routes to Crete, Chios, Mytilini, Rhodes? This is how we ensured territorial continuity. Secondly, we have reduced port charges by 20%. Of course, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, we are preparing a special programme for the compensation of ferry companies from European resources. However, we also supported our seafarers, with special allowances, by extending the insurance capacity of the unemployed seafarers, by reviewing the terms and conditions for the registration of unemployed seafarers on the lists offered for shipping. So, ladies and gentlemen, with concrete measures, decisive and timely, we have also ensured the operation of the coastline and, of course, we have supported our seafarers in every way and in a manner. This bill includes critical and specific provisions for the implementation of Law 3978/2011, the well-known Public Procurement Act, which refers to the area of defence and security, and provides for the implementation of this law to the Port Body. They are absolutely crucial and necessary, because they allow us to move forward with transparency, quickly, in the implementation of very important projects of national importance, which are about the protection of maritime borders, but also the safety of shipping. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, Mr Mitsotakis and his Government show both wisdom and determination and are right to read the reality. With the same wisdom and determination we will continue to take measures gradually so that we return to the normality of our lives. In the Ministry of Shipping we have taken all the necessary measures in good time, act responsibly, stay safe. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u330	Thank you too, Minister. I give the floor now to the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Zetta Makrei, for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u331	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the global exhibition of the coronary pandemic has created a very serious context of crisis, causing tectonic changes at all levels of political, economic, social and cultural life. He broke into them until before stable security compartments of modern societies. The characteristics of pandemic and, above all, its rapid development, which causes huge health gaps and makes modern health systems intact, as well as its geographical spread across the globe, are quite identical to the main component of our time, globalisation, and irony, perhaps creates the most serious globalised problem. One century has been completed since the outbreak of the destructive pandemic of Spanish influenza in 1918, which led to the death of about 100 million people and dramatically changed the flow of human history. The modern health crisis may in turn also constitute a historic milestone of a century later for the transition of modern societies to a radically new way of thinking, but also for the formation of a new life for people with other traits and other priorities. The total lockdown, namely the temporary cessation of economic activities, as well as the abrupt social dismissal of people who were annoyed, if not dependent on the rapid social interactions, have brought a dramatic shock, as well as its past, such as the uncertainty of the upcoming economic recession, new economic speeds and new correlations of power at national and global level. These concerns are aroused by the governments and all the civil servants, because they are expelled not only by their extraordinary actions to mitigate the spread of the virus, but also by the next ones immediately, such as those we are discussing today for the return of life to normality. Ladies and gentlemen, many leaders and their governments at world level have been exposed to the outbreak of the COVID pandemic -19 and have been adversely criticised, especially for their reflexes in its expansion, as from Spain to the United Kingdom, from the United States to Brazil, politicians have slowed down taking drastic measures to protect their citizens. Notable and bright exception to this trend, which is constantly praised and promoted by international media of unknown prestige, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and himself personally, who promoted public health above all other dimensions and imposed early, boldly and decisively, trusting the high scientific training and knowledge of the special committee of the Ministry of Health, a package of lockdown measures, which has helped the country to avoid to a large extent the difficult situations with which other richer countries have been faced. More than anyone, bistrophics and congratulations are worthy to the Greek citizens, who have been exemplary to the containment measures, showing their calm, stoic, but above all, collective tolerance and tolerance to the difficulties, one year after the exit from an exhausting ten-year economic crisis. Also, medical and nursing staff must be given credit, as well as security bodies, which, with self-determination and extremely high scientific level and professional awareness, have reached the level of the circumstances. This bill, which must be voted on, is the bridge to move to the next phase, namely to restore normality and growth as painlessly as possible, sooner and always with proper strategic planning, as the Prime Minister rightly said, a few days ago, announcing the package of measures for the next few months. The excellent bill under discussion covers primarily and further the universal demand for health upgrades, strengthening and modernising the public health system with new staff, providing incentives to health professionals, with more intensified treatment units and increased care facilities, by supplying the necessary health material and personal protective equipment, as well as new advanced technical tools. Besides, it is evident that the response requirements to new crises will always be pressurised and therefore the health system should always be alert and make the best management choices so that they can evolve continuously and be able to respond adequately to the next and perhaps unknown test. In line with the country's extremely high level of scientific capacity, as well as the university institutes and laboratories, Greece will be able to participate actively in research to search for vaccines and other ways to eliminate the coronary. In addition, among many important things, the bill covers the protection of first home, prepares for the reopening of schools, brings technical provisions on the rules of social distance, extends favourable arrangements for previous MDGs for a smooth return to normality, extends the deadline to the regulation of the hundreds of twenty-dollars, extends the reduction of professional rent, regulates the question of the smooth reopening of the courts and prosecutors of the country. This crisis, ladies and gentlemen, more than the financial pressure and the promotion of reforms aimed at facilitating the daily lives of citizens and decongested public services. This is why we should firstly see the outbreak of pandemic not as a total catastrophe, but as an opportunity for us to be able to heal rapidly the arrhythms and mistakes of the past. Besides, crises and, above all, health and safety in particular, they have never been an automatic mechanism for correcting bad texts in a society. The process of change is neither supernatural nor socially neutral, but it is the result of continuous and flexible planning that prevails or fails to accept them from society. The country's success so far avoids a massive disaster being recorded as a positive mortgage for the immediate future. However, we must not be reassured. In order for the country to present a similar success, and in the phase of the correction that we are currently in progress, it should be prepared for drastic changes and adjustments, with study, planning and persistence. This bill is moving in this direction. It lays down these foundations which must lead to very substantial and necessary regulations, priorities and prospects, which must not only be maintained but also extended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u332	Mr. Kontozamanis wants to make some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u333	I'm going to testify the legislative improvements to be distributed. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u334	Mrs Maria Athanasios has the floor from the Greek Solution for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I could not today refer to the black day for Hellenism and Christianity, black desolation from the Ottomans. I will close with "Die Lady and don't tear up, again years, in times, again, it'll be yours." Mr President, following continuous meetings of the Committee on Social Affairs and Finance on the ratification of legislative acts from 13-4 and 1-5-2020, as well as other provisions, we are coming to plenary today for their vote. We as a Greek Solution are not a party of protest and a sterile opposition. We have raised our concerns about how the government treats the coronary and we have put forward proposals that will help our Greece to build up forces and move on a path of effective and competitive development, so that it can produce wealth and be economically sound. You have, however, chosen to favor your own people by giving them fat money, while treating the Greek people as a beggar. Ladies and gentlemen, in the state of emergency we have experienced, the great protagonist has been the Public National Health System with his medical and nursing staff. You applauded it many times so far. We hope that you will recognize it in practice, by restoring its respect and dignity in every way and by finally dismantling your plans for private and public partnerships. It is true that some forecasts have been made in the present MDGs, but there is also a need for much more and more targeted to be done to view them as complete. And I'm explaining. In the case of private doctors employed in public hospitals for the coronary by private contract for a fixed period of time referred to in Article 14 of the first MDG, we agree with the moleculosis you prefer, but we reserve your intentions. Because, while maintaining their right to privateise and at the same time to receive the monthly wages of EUR 2 000 you are offering them, you are promoting the partnerships through the backdrop, taking their public character into account the needs arising from COVID -19. Subsequently, you set up a hundred and seventy places in Lesvos, Chios and Samos because of illegal immigrants - you said so too, Mr Kontozamani - and put aside the other islands that have been affected for so many years by all the diseases and not just by the coronary. In the region, there are exceptional circumstances with no staff each year for at least six months during the tourist season. But you don't seem to be practicing the coronary's chance. Not at all. An opportunity can be made, if the right choices are made, to give incentives to already appointed doctors at the border so that they do not want to make use of the five - year - old law to be transferred to another hospital, especially to islands such as Ikaria, Kos and Lemnos, where there are not even private doctors at all. Give the reasons and motives to stay there permanently. During the outbreak of the disease we were faced with the enormous shortcomings of primary health care, which was almost frustratingly unexistent and decommissioned, with its structures largely unexploited. In Greek Solution we know the urgent need to upgrade the role of primary care. We have made concrete proposals, and we have made them. In another provision, you are subject to exceptional conditions, because under no circumstances should it be consolidated, the obligation of the Office for Official Publications of the European Communities to provide their services at the judgement of the coronary in public hospitals. It is reasonable to ask why only those specific specialities and not all those involved in this period? But that's not the point. The discharge from the Rural Agency should in no way be put as a means of reward, especially when we have so many shortages of doctors on our islands and in general in the province. I would suggest in addition to the forthcoming restructuring of the ESS that the countryside office should be established after receiving the expertise so that doctors, specialists and not just graduates, can actually offer a complete service in the province and the islands. Such an rural service could also receive similar moleculosis in the case of an application to cover a placement at the public hospital where qualifications, in addition to studies, publications and participation in a meeting, should be especially increased in terms of combat pre-service. What about tourism? Where you said there would be health certificates for foreigners coming here, now abolish them before the tourist season even begins and open the borders to come. And what could be done? We could have a new outbreak of the virus and then tourists go to their countries or even worse to be hospitalized here, and the Greek people will finally be locked up again to prevent the spread of the coronary and this time not for for forty-five days, but for months, since we will have whole autumn and winter in front of us. Give security to the world, gentlemen of the government, just as you give it to your friends. And since we're talking about friends, you haven't taken any measures to protect households from power, water and telephone breaks. At the same time, however, you are giving the right to channels, which are only affected, to pay 50% less money to DIGEA, which in turn will offset the lost revenue by the auctioning of frequencies by the state itself, namely all of us. In order for the world to learn, DIGEA also belongs to the same channels. A lot of joys, gentlemen of the government. A lot of provocative and provocative! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, too. Mr Charalambos Papadimitriou has the floor from New Democracy for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u337	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, economists are very often talking about the so-called 'Hamilton stunt'. Hamilton is well known, first of all because he has his face in the thirteenth and secondly, because he was the man who thought to unify - he was the first US Minister of Finance - the public debt of the then independent States to do so uniformly. And what did he do? The new situation in the United States has taken over this debt. And only with this assumption, the debt has gained a terrifying value. With this move and in conjunction with the creation of the central bank, which then called it the "first bank of America", but also other actions, Hamilton has earned his place in the dilemma, but most importantly his place among the inspired people who understand that at times, at critical times, you need to take an initiative such as this, to unify the economic situation at another level. Unfortunately, Hamilton was killed in a duel. The reason why he did not become President of the United States was that he preferred love from the official relationship. But all this can be combined well when decisions are now made in Europe. I am telling you this because many economists say that Europe has not exactly reached this 'Hamilton stigma', as they call it, but is at Merkel. However, Merkel - and most impressive - with the support of Shoeble, who in a few minutes said, "Let the spoons go, we do nothing to break up Europe", is currently trying to find a end to a problem that, although no one created it, we don't know where it came from and how Trump will find it! - but for sure, we know the consequences. There are not many colleagues here. I see Mr Blonde, who may be able to explain to us why at this point there is no consensus between the Greek parliamentarians, whether we are in here, or we are in the European Parliament. Because I hear that our attitude - as Greeks and Greeks, I mean - on this matter of the great step that Europe is taking until we meet Hamilton, which I was saying earlier, is not uniform. And that is very dangerous, because this also reflects the way in which this bill is being discussed here. In fact, it is about arrangements which are woven one by one to serve special situations, to serve problems where we discover them. And I imagine that all the MPs are in constant contact with the ministers, "Watch this", "See that," so that in any way, no part of society remains without any help. And help right now means what? It means we're gonna help you because you're gonna help yourself. Unfortunately, this does not always go through the way we imagine, because there is always another voice that says "You don't have to do anything, you don't have to do anything, I'm here for you". And there things get confused, and the message we send is even worse. So, I think that while the regulations of the bill are absolutely accurate and necessary, we have not yet reached the moment when we say how things will happen from now on. The money that Europeans say will put on the table - we will see how much it will be - in my opinion there will be a lot more time - I hope not to be confirmed - if the crisis - and that is the main reason why more - of the virus is hit again. However, more will be done for another reason: Europe decides to make a leap in the sense that it cannot withstand major crises in front of it. And the jump does it in a certain direction. He says: What do I want to strengthen? What do I want to be when I grow up, even though it's already too big? I want a green Europe. I want a technological Europe. So, it's not just a step of defense against a evil that finds us, but it's at the same time an attack. She's trying and we're trying with her, turning this crisis into an opportunity. And so we need to see the money they're coming and how we handle things from now on. If there is one reason why we should rethink the political mandate of the present majority in Parliament, and therefore the government, that is precisely that, that is, that everything we promised beforehand is not enough to make Greece take the big step forward. We did not know that we would meet this crisis, but we did not know that we would also find the opportunity to solve problems, which we have unfortunately been dragging behind in recent years. In short, the arrangements are good. There's an improvement field. I, for example, do not agree with the way in which insurance contributions are allocated where we have flexible work. But that does not say anything, because this solution is good and can go ahead. After all, we're here to trade them. I think the most important thing is at the moment to take the step forward and go further with these arrangements. From there on, those who don't agree with it - and I understand - it's time for us to split up maybe and see who works and who prefers to go for a ride to Zappeion and therefore see how we go further. The sure thing is that we have a lot of work ahead of us. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, too, for keeping time. I call to Stepma Mr. Paulo Paulakis from SYRIZA for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President. Where should I catch it and where should I start? This is not a bill of ratification, ladies and gentlemen, of the Ministry of Health MDGs. Here's one thing that has two hundred fifty articles. And I'm starting with one with a terrible interest. I mean too much and in general, but I can't make it. I also have the President here. So, so that we do not have hugs in the end, I say them quickly. Look, you have a 40th-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-st-six, in which you say that the suspension of time limits is laid down in the joint decisions of the Ministers of National Defence, Health, Justice, issued by authorising, etc. You're saying it's confusing, and he doesn't understand anything human. What are you doing with that? You clean up the bankers who gave the loans. You clean the bankers! What does the coroner have to do with it? What does the Coronovirus have to do with this article in which you 'clean' the bankers who gave the sea loans to either parties or to entrepreneurs who made them personal enrichment in Swiss and Cayman Islands and I don't know what both Panama Papers and it doesn't fit into lists? And now you take them off without spot and uninfected, and then you will be shaken by the finger that "Government has cleaned us." You spent the story first that the bank should ask to be prosecuted. You took it out of your own order. You gave four months of extension that the courts closed, but you do not include the bankers. The deadlines have passed, and now they are clean, white and undefiled all these cords of modernisation, which ate the money of the banks and the Greek people. One is that. Secondly, Mr Contozamanis, I can see and continue the article that cleans - the second 'washer' again with the coronary - Mr Carvelis. You're cleaning Mr. Carvelis. This will show the court tomorrow when they say to him: “Why, little boy, did you order 18 euros of uniforms when Mr. Stathes said on the same day that he ordered them with 8 and he has not already received them? And why did you choose a company of Lainiotis, where are you close relatives and everything else?" What we've said three hundred times. Here too, you are 'cleaning' him. It's legal. You're doing this legitimately. This is the logic of Maria Antoinette, Mr Contozamanis, "I am the state, I eat them and I do not pay." That's what you're doing here, Mr. Contozamani. I told you to drop it. That won't pass. You're not going to clean him up because he's Mr. Bekire's best friend, where is the MP's son, who is a former MP of Patras, who is now the director of Mr. Mitsotakis' political office. The second was that. Thirdly, with regard to the Niarchus donation, answer, Mr Contozamani. And here's a laundry. Nothing else. That's what you're doing. His relative got the job, or he'd bring them to March's 30th. Today it is the end of May, and it has not even brought them, and it is clear, it is legal, it is a decent citizen of this country. With the Nirarch's donation, why don't you include the staff, which is entitled to an allowance? You are giving an allowance given by Niarchos for the health staff of the ITH, etc. Why don't you give it to the NSAVites? Has the NSAVites and the guides to the ambulances of the health centres and the health centres we have designated as CIVID centres not carried? Why don't you give it to them, too? It must be given to them, too. It is an elementary recognition of the work they have offered. Look at it. You have time. That's how many law-making you bring. One or two words are: EKA and COVID health centres and ambulance drivers of health centres. And since I said about the EAW, I'm going to an issue now, which is very serious. I've been informed that since Tuesday that the Air Force can no longer have an airline. You know that? We've been through since Tuesday. And I was also informed of something else, which is very serious, if it has been done. They informed me that on the Saturday that passed us - I carry it with a small reservation, surely, but I put a small reservation, because it is information from the EKAA Aerospace Centre in Elefsina, we did not have C27, because it was used by the Prime Minister of the country for the transition to Crete. You can imagine that Tsipras would have done that. Do you remember what had happened when Toskas had taken one of the EKA's helicopters to see - from the last one he sat down - whether it worked and where other operational helicopters were? And now, of course, it seems the necessity of the bases of Syros and the Coast that you did not like. Except helicopters aren't a taxi back home. At the moment, the Coast doesn't even have a helicopter today. If need be, he has to leave the Tanagra helicopter, go up with three-four supplies to bring it back. Is that the support you're making in the EKAV? And since the EAW talks came, we agreed on the two of the three helicopters of the EAW to be repaired to the EAW. You changed it to get a new one. You changed it and you'll get new helicopters. We agreed, however, by supporting the ODA and not by doing the poor thing you are now doing. Niarchus will deliver us the two airplanes. What's going on? Has there been any deal with any company taking over the Aerospace project because it's profitable? All three floats that are going to Naxos, Rhodes, Lero, etc. It is what we have been proclaiming with Santorinios and Mr Plakkatakis has come and says "we are strengthening" and so on. Did you see how all this reinforcement we made, the opening of the Santorini hospital, is the armour to bring tourism tomorrow - the day after tomorrow? Also, the Hospital of Karpathos, why don't you open it? He's Mr. Gerapetite over there. We'd been proclaiming fourteen doctor posts. You have announced them again to February. You stopped it. Personal now, did you get for the Hospital of Karpathos? Well done. Let me see when he's going forward, because, as you know, I was between May and June last year and we were ready to open it. It was over. We didn't receive a receipt at the time so you wouldn't tell us we did it in the election. It was ready. We finished it, even though you delayed seven - eight years to finish it. We're done. We had arranged everything to start from then on and so far you have not played a penny, and there is Mr. Gerapetritis from there. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two more words I want to say and thank you for tolerance. I'm necessarily saying them scorpions, but I can't answer all of what I have heard from Mr. Bourras. I wanted to answer. We'll all be judged on how the economy goes, Mr. Bourra. We put our backs on to deal with the pandemic. We put our backs on. The answer I got about what units we opened up is the proposal I made to Mr. Kiklia that afternoon when the ball was gone and we said that only a hundred beds can be opened. Another hundred and thirty three of us have opened. A hundred and thirty are MAFs, which we said, the way I told them to turn them into thirty-two of the military and forty-five of the private ICMs, which we had seventy and that's all that because you put them in 1,600 euros. That's what happened. We put our backs on it. But we're not going to put back on any dissipation of public money. And I say it like that. Pick up two - three governors - and I say it by names - Mr Gregoropoulos from the 'Evangelism'. He has seen it 'the state is me and him'. It is one of the two governors I have learned - there will be others, watching them all - who go out of individual contracts and even at the most impressive hospital in the country, where we saved 2,300,000 euros a year, while the cleaners took 250 euros in the pocket. And he went through the board of directors that, while he did not sign the contracts, he signed them six months, those who end in 2020 in other hospitals can't renew with the arrangement that you went through and went to go through that from 1-1-2021 will bring a contractor again. Why would he bring back a contractor? To give again 4.5 instead of 2.5?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u340	Close, please, you've spoken for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u341	I'm closing up with one last, with the "Evangelism" again. He's also doing more. He put - he says - cameras in the MAF and the ICF and without a decision? Where did he see that thing? Get the phone down tomorrow morning, 'cause I'm gonna go that way, 'cause a friend of mine is also in the MAF. And if he writes me, I'll take the camera down. Is that right? It makes no sense in dealing with the coronary to place cameras in such places where they are workers, where they are patients. Don't laugh, Mr. Loverdo. That's right. He can't get that thing into a reference hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u342	Close, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u343	We're not talking about the entrance. We're talking about in the hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u344	Look at the watch.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u345	And the only decision there is is four grand assignment to one to count my wires and where the cameras are going to go. That's all there is. The other way they came from? What money did he buy? Parts of the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u346	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u347	I want to say something about my place. I'm sorry. Be careful not to set fire to PAGNE by transport. Niarchus gives you some respirators and beds to develop another ten beds. You're going to throw out one of the largest invasive cardiology units in the country, take it out to develop beds there.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u348	No more, Mr. Polakis. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u349	So tell Mr. Halkidakis and Mr. Gregoropoulou to find other places to develop, because all the doctors of Cardiology will resign. Don't go - you're supposed to - these expansions of Mr. Halkidakis from the past, because he's become a big davanturi with that story down. Stop this thing from continuing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u350	He has the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u351	I could talk by tomorrow, but, unfortunately, you'll definitely show...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u352	That's for sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u353	Be well, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u354	You spoke 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u355	Thank you very much. We said with the coroner we won't cover whatever business, deal, cheek, miserable can pass. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u356	The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Loverdos John, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u357	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I will not comment on what Mr Paulakis said. His right is to say whatever he wants. That is his parliamentary right, which I fully respect, because we in the New Democracy are a parliamentary party and we fully respect the institutions. I just want to observe something just to restore historical truth. "The state is me," Maria Antoinette said. Louis ID said so, the so-called "Kassilias Sun", about a century ago by Maria Antoinette, who was the wife of Louis VI.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u358	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u359	Maria Antoinette, Queen of France, when the French Revolution took place, asked why they rebel and said, "But they have no bread to eat." "After they don't have bread, why don't they eat pancakes?" said Maria Antoinette and this phrase has been left as a sample of how someone is out of reality. Who is out of reality today and lives in his own world is another story! However, for the record again, Louis VI found death in the guillotine after the revolution. Well, today, friends and friends, ladies and gentlemen, three years after the death of one, in my opinion, and in the opinion of the history of the country's leading political personality, Constantine Mitsotakis, a man who gave his life for parliamentism and fought as few as national reconciliation. I wonder what Mitsotakis would say today if he were in life. He would tell us that all together we can really stand on our feet and create again, because Hellenism, when it is united, has many powers to do so, and that must be our message today. Today we are called upon to ratify - I will not hide it that the bill is very great, with many amendments, which might, if it were in normal circumstances, should not come in this way - a bill dealing with dealing not only with the government but with Greece and Greece, the unprecedented health crisis that was still going through and going through Greece and the world as a whole and with the economic consequences, which are clearly scary not only for Greece but for the whole world. As far as the management of the health crisis is concerned, I do not think there is anyone to question that, in fact, the government, the Greek state, has managed quite well and I hope that the same will happen if we have a new health crisis in the near future. Because from the horn pandemic - I'm sorry to say it - we're not done yet. Whoever thinks we're done lives like Maria Antoinette in another world. So we come to the economic consequences. What financial consequences does this pandemic have? You're unprecedented. Never before in the history of humanity had a lockdown, quarantine, in almost all of the world, in almost all of mankind. Mouvement is after such a pandemic and after this lockdown there is a serious, serious economic impact. These, the Government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis tried to deal with them with measures which are, in general speaking, in the right direction. What did he do? To limit the closure of small and medium-sized enterprises and to deal directly now with the problem of redundancies. You're going to tell me, he's dealing with it forever? No, of course not. For the next few months, until we overcome the health crisis and achieve this, we often reach the limit of the country's budgetary potential. From September to October, things are certain that, if we do not go well to tourism, which is a great uncertainty, we may have serious economic consequences. I'm not going to reason with who can do more. I think what the government is doing is a little - very much anticipated. I respect SYRIZA's positions too. It is also good that SYRIZA and the other opposition parties have their own opposition, they have the right and it is right to say it, but they have not really proposed something quite different. Greece is a country that faces the situation in the best possible way. I won't be tempted to give you remission rates. I don't know, nobody knows. I have heard many different and contradictory views. What I can tell you, however, is, with certainty, that in this crisis united and together, we can actually stand up and stand up, because that is the government's project, it is the Greeks' project and we will succeed. I hope that, when we overcome the health crisis - I do not know when, I hope from 2021 onwards - and with the support of Europe, Greece enters a strong recovery and development orbit, and then we will be able to speak - possibly from time to time - under very different and much more interesting conditions. So I call on you all together to support the government in this very difficult task, to vote in favour of this bill, despite the fact that I understand that it is an extraordinary need and I hope that Parliament will not happen in future and that we will have the possibility of this time talking in terms of normality and regularity, as well as parliamentary morality, but also with political morality, a political morale that we must find in this country again. Be well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u360	Thank you for keeping time. I call on the Vice-President of Parliament and Mera25 MEP, Mrs Sophia Sakorafa, for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u361	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] First of all, let me begin with something that is not directly related to the act of legislation, because sometimes the circumstances and coincidences are such that it is. Tomorrow, May 30, 1941, with the end of the Battle of Crete, Manolis Glezos and Lakis Santas downed the swastika from the Rock of Acropolis. The celebrity figurines for these events have been overtaken by all politicians over the years. I am confined to politicians, because we also have the responsibility to prove respect for what they themselves have a particular emphasis on the anniversaries. On June 3, 1941, the Nazis leveled the testament of Candan, in retaliation for the battle given to the Candan Gorge, where one of the most glorious moments of the pallaean resistance of the unscrupulous fighters of the Great was written. In this canyon, therefore, against and against the will of the inhabitants, the government authorized quartz companies to expand their activities. The conclusions, ladies and gentlemen, are yours. For the most emblematic monument of Greece and the world heritage, the Acropolis, for the first time in time, the government requested and received private sponsorship for upgrading infrastructure. Even for symbolic reasons! However, even more unacceptable, the procedure for carrying out the work on a project, but, ladies and gentlemen, we all want it to be done. After my on-the-spot visit, I stated that this construction of illegality, clandestineness and criminal indifference for the safety of workers - take note of this! - it embarrasss and offends all Greece. Since, therefore, the Minister for Culture avoids doing her duty, I urge the Prime Minister to order the immediate cessation of work and the elimination of this misdemeanour and to examine how and why we have come to this unacceptable and dangerous development. You need to see the picture of this thing! Unfortunately, I was not heard and today has intervened with a prosecutor, which is a sad development. I now come to the ratification of the legislative act. Once again I denounce that this way of legislating is always very dangerous and marginally constitutional. The rapporteur for our party has analysed them in detail. I have no time, and that is why I will be standing in two or three points. Article 32 relates to the question I tabled No 6892/20. The legislative framework under which the Ministry of Health, the services, its responsibilities and hospitals in the country as legal persons governed by public law could conclude fixed-term contracts for cleaning, feeding and storage services expires on 31-12-20. Since 2016, the SYRIZA Government has ignored its obligation to create organic positions and to open a competition for permanent staff, as these needs are permanent, imperative and strictly necessary. It set you up, ladies and gentlemen! Thus, in 2020 and due to the termination of these contracts in a number of hospitals and a pandemic, competitions are being opened for the promotion of contractors. These workers you are sending them to work, if they are naturally hired on much worse terms, to cleaning contractors, are the ones you called "heroes of the ESS". They are the ones who have swallowed tons of bleach and disinfectants entering and disinfecting the solitary and hospital spaces, without a single moment going back. That's the reward you're looking after! Ladies and gentlemen, with ministerial amendment the courts have been reopening since 1 June 2020. We note that while forced auctions are effectively postponed after 1 September 2020, other enforcement operations are not suspended. As the redundancies are being released from June 1st, seizures are being released. The persecuted debtor cannot, due to the epidemic, bring its defence and counter-response in comfort. Minister, why don't you extend the suspension for the rest of the forced executions? Otherwise you sacrifice thousands of people with benefits only to banks and predators. As regards the Ministerial Amendment 329/61 on the 'Cooperation' and 'SURE' programmes, I would refer you to the Minutes of the debate on my topical and urgent question this morning with Mr Brutsis. I have to say that Article 11 restores the injustice of Law 4670/2020 for the heterogeneous retired farmers I had raised with my timely question and responded to the Minister. Finally, I will speak and support two amendments that we have tabled. The amendment under number 325/58 corrects a manifest omission of ministerial decisions. It is an urgent request from the Diabetic Association supported by the Diabetic Society and the Diabetic Associations, so that diabetics can join the vulnerable groups with all the beneficial effects of this arrangement. I think there will be no objection to that. With its second amendment, number 324/57, we are trying to safeguard the validity and democratic procedures of judicial associations, the term of office of the institutions of which has expired or will expire until 30 May 2020. The emergency measures, due to the epidemic, prevented the early elections in the judiciary for a number of reasons. Under the law, on Monday, temporary administrations must enter, which, apart from any questioning or tiny feasibility, will affect the validity of judicial associations and will trigger public opinion. Minister, with the amendment to extend the term of office of democratically elected bodies, in order to unnecessarily lead legal associations to elections, as the law stipulates and calls, we believe that we also preserve the validity of associations and leave no margin for misinterpretation to the public. [[At this point the closing bell of the speaking time of the H' Vice-President of the Parliament is ringing.]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the government has been engaged in a communication storm trying to convince public opinion about the correctness of the policy followed so far, but also about the successful exit from the quarantine and the economic consequences of the epidemic. Our party was placed by his secretary overthrowing this account with substantiated arguments. I would point out, however, that the worst of the implementation of a deadlocked policy in the knowledge of the government is to look at the tragic reality and leave the people unprepared for the storm coming. Unfortunately, the government is investing its survival in its communication invention if reality is not suited to us, the worst for reality. Except the reality when you ignore her, she's avenged. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u362	We continue with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr. Spanaki, for six minutes. Here, Mr Spankee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after several months our Parliament is meeting today and new expressions, new words enter our daily vocabulary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u364	Mr Spanaki, I beg your pardon, but Parliament is not meeting today, after a long time. He didn't stop meeting at all. Don't get us wrong. Something else you wanted to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u365	I am sorry, Mr President, several weeks later, Parliament is sitting in regularity, and I am in this forefront.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u366	It has been a long time since Parliament has satisfactorily met, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u367	Excuse me, Mr. President. I meant he's meeting in regularity, and I'm at the Step. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u368	Parliament has not interrupted at all. It also meets in the middle of a coronary, taking all precautions and slowly expanding participation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr President, for the correction. After several weeks Parliament meets and new words are inserted, such as 'normality', because we are going back to normality. That's what I mean. But new words can also be found, such as the're-start' of the economy. These words are now in our vocabulary. But confronting any crisis requires a plan, it wants vision and determination. And the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has a plan, has a vision and determination. Today our Parliament meets on the draft law of the Ministry of Health to ratify two legislative acts. You know, legislative acts have become the starting point of criticism from the Opposition. And I am very sorry that this has happened, because it has finally proved to be those who created the conditions for Greece to stand up in the last few years. Greece stayed not only standing but also became a champion in tackling the health crisis. And I am very proud as a Member of the Greek Parliament, because seeing households and businesses tested, all homes have great anxiety and retired people listening to and striving to observe developments not only in Greece, but also in Europe, I think that today they can see things with optimism differently. Today the daily press, for example, gives a new hope. He's talking about another plan, about vision, about determination, about tax reduction, about strengthening liquidity in the real economy. For, ladies and gentlemen, let us not hide behind our finger: the determination of Mr Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister of our country, was the strong reflexes of this government that led the country to these positive results, and today we read all these positive news in daily newspapers. Today we are seeing the new package of EUR 32 billion, but I would also like to stress the Prime Minister's statement that we will not waste the money on the four winds. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, why would this happen? Because the New Democracy is a responsible party, it meets the needs of the Greek society, we do not plunder and above all we do not create false preconditions and promises. What remains is that we all see, with concrete measures, the strengthening of liquidity. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, what is the difference in the economic policy of this government with the economic policy of the SYRIZA government? When there was a recession, you exaggerated Greek households, while we are talking about lowering taxes. That's the big difference. We do not experiment on the backs of the incomes of Greek households and businesses. We respect the work. We are applying employment enhancement practices. We are moving forward with concrete measures to strengthen entrepreneurship. This government is clearly talking about the protection of first residence, which you did not do, and today Article 5 extends the deadline for the due date for the remuneration received in 2013 until 31 July 2020. And the Mitsotakis government will soon give a definitive solution for all pensioners' retrospectives, and I say this to our parents who are struggling. This government will effectively resolve the anguish of the retired. We have mobilized businesses and natural persons to pay within this health crisis in the short term, and we have brought appropriate and targeted extensions. We have always supported businesses and workers. I am well aware, gentlemen, that you are having a hard time saying the good news, but we have brought the extensions of collective agreements. Incidentally we thanked all those who offered to deal with the health crisis, such as doctors, nurses, staff of the EKA, the Greek Police. We've cleared the place with donations. We have brought flexibility to the municipalities to make their fees available. We gave extensions to workers' contracts, such as the ADP cleaners, until 30 September 2020. But today, ladies and gentlemen, we are being called upon to ratify acts of legislative content which have brought together a number of appropriate regulations on the procurement of the Local Government Institutions, on the issues of the Ministry of Education and on measures to support our seafarers. Ladies and gentlemen, in this crisis it was very important to reduce the rent for professional leases, for the first residence of workers, but also for the student residences of the children of workers. The initiatives, such as mobile special-purpose health units, have been important, such as the extension of the mandate of the administrative bodies of trade unions. Today we are also going to vote on the amendments relating to tourism development, the increase in the appropriations for the 2020 Public Investment Budget with the sum of EUR 1,200,000, and above all, today we shall vote for the reduction in VAT rates on coffee, non-alcoholic beverages, tea, cinema tickets, concerts, performances and transport. It is worth stressing that we are also bringing wage support measures from non-recovery of rents, so that it does not constitute income and is not subject to an income tax or to a special solidarity levy the amount of rent that has not been collected. We also bring a tax deduction for property owners in a concrete and clear way. We are called today - and I shall end, Mr President, and I thank you very much for your tolerance - to vote for measures of financial support to civil hereditary law societies and, in particular, for the health and defence ministries, with the possibility of recruiting subsidiary staff, which will meet basic needs. We are establishing a mechanism for strengthening employment, with a view to providing support for workers from all over the country, with a view to maintaining full-time jobs. We have special care for reduced working hours for parents. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that everyone's concern is justified, it is reasonable, but we must never lose our optimism. The Commission's last communication on the package of 32 billion euros changes financial planning. The conditions for tax reductions and support for businesses and workers, which will be large and substantial in the coming years, are being formulated. In these words, I urge you to vote in favour of the draft law which has come to be voted on today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u370	Mrs. Efi Ahtzioglu has the floor from SYRIZA for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, since the launch of this new economic treaty, which has revealed that it will soon turn into a deep economic crisis, we have, on the part of SYRIZA, pointed out the need for concrete labour protection measures, market intervention measures to protect labour. The government, although assigned and continues to claim that its desire is to protect work, actually the strategy that follows does exactly the opposite. And I'll explain why. When you exercise a government policy, work protection cannot be a wish. The market tends to deregulation of labour relations, a trend which is particularly enhanced when you are in crisis. So, if you really want to protect the job, you have to intervene with specific measures on the market, use the financial tools you have as a state with specific margins, put in very strict rules. Protection of work is content. It's not a general announcement. It means protecting jobs, protecting employment relationships, not changing a full-time relationship into part-time, i.e. protecting wages, wages at 100%. The government actually follows exactly the opposite strategy. From the outset it was based on two models, two things, two policies, the suspension of contracts of employment and rotating work. Both of these models actually constantly prolongs them and finally standardizes them in the market. The suspension of employment contracts is nothing but the conversion of the working population into unemployed, subsidised but unemployed. Thus, by government decision came the New Democracy and turned a very large proportion of private sector workers into subsidised unemployed. At the outset, we have pointed out that in companies which closed off on a state mandate - and here, as you know, there are too many businesses - restaurants, bars, coffee shops and small shops there was no protection the next day for workers from redundancies, despite the fact that the government is doing the opposite. This has proved to be the case, that redundancies in these companies that are reopening are completely liberated. The Ministry of Labour also issued a circular a few days ago confirming this. Today, with the Act of Legislative content and the amendment tabled, the suspension of employment contracts is extended, which is what all these people, who are in fact unemployed - many of them will remain outside the labour market six months - not to be recorded as unemployed, i.e. to appear as workers, whereas they are not workers and thus, for some time, there will be a virtual containment of unemployment rates. The second measure adopted by the Government, which supports its policy at work, is the measure of rotating work. This has so far meant those who are not on parole, working half the time and taking half the wage. From now on, this measure, which in fact remains as such - regardless of whether it changes its name and is changing because it obviously has negative consequences for rotating work, but the measure is the same - it is actually subsidised, that is, it creates an incentive for businesses to reduce wages and to optimise labour relations. What does the new model of 'COMPANY' say, as the government called it? That the employer will pay 50% of the wage and the state will pay the remaining 30% of the wage. This means that workers are entering a period with 20% horizontal wage reductions. That is not a political assessment, as you can see. It's a pure mathematical act. A worker who takes EUR 1,000 - and this is the average full-time worker, I do not use extreme examples - will get from tomorrow 800 euros. Does this model at least protect jobs? Oh, no. The amendment is clear. The job is protected only for the person whose wages are reduced. All other employees in the company can normally follow. Does this model at least protect one employee's position for the future? That's not true either. Once this reduced wage and that worker has ceased, he can normally be made redundant. So what do we actually have here? It should be noted that the government is also seeking to create a pragmatic situation here, because it says that these people who work less time, that is to say they will be converted into part-time or rotating jobs, and they will receive a lower wage, will be declared as if they were given a full-time wage. In other words, an attempt is being made here to distort the image of the labour market, and in practice it will be very different. So, what does the government do toward labour so far? Three streets draw for the workers. This shows them at the moment for their future: you will either be fired or made redundant, subsidized, but unemployment, or your salaries will be reduced by 20%. These three streets describe them. This is the model that shows for the labour market. This cannot in any way be characterised as protection of work. The paradox is, however, that, with this new model in fact, neither is the small and medium-sized employer being strengthened, it is being facilitated. Why, what does this new model say to the employer? You will pay for the less time you will be employed by the employee, you will pay him the full salary corresponding to that less time, but you will pay 100% of the insurance contributions to his original nominal salary. Thus, in reality, the small and medium-sized employer is not lightened, it is not supported by weight, by the so-called 'wage or non-wage cost'. So what is it that turns out to be all this model? That here we have a model based on a purely idealism: insistence on lowering wages and elasticising employment relationships from which everyone is actually lost. The worker loses his wages, the employer is not being facilitated. That's why I'm talking about a clean idea. There is a different proposal, there is a different path. We've presented him. We insist on him. It is a model by which you are subsidising businesses to keep jobs and pay wages to 100%, covering a greater proportion of the most affected businesses and a smaller part of the less affected, but some of the wage and non-wage costs. In this way, jobs are guaranteed and wages are paid to 100% and the small and medium-sized employer can actually have a significant relief. The question, therefore, is the strategic choice, if a strategic job support option is made. At the moment, the government makes the opposite strategic choice, the choice of dismantling labour, which costs both the workers' lives and the country's economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u372	We continue with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Dimitris Vartzopoulos, for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u373	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, now and again, it is a major crisis, an emergency situation which is being dealt with by emergency measures. Exceptional situations, however, often highlight the existing weaknesses of the structural systems that deal with them. That is why there is a need for exceptional measures which, as we have said, may be of a lasting nature. This means that emergency situations can be a trigger and emergency measures can be a yeast for radical change. I believe that the current situation is a first-class opportunity for a radical change, for a radical modernisation of the National Health System across the width and the depth of it. A characteristic example of these exceptional measures, which could also be elements of modernisation, is that within a minimum period of time, four thousand staff from all sectors and categories have been recruited for two years. After the two years they will be able to be evaluated and those who are good, worthy and want to continue to take another two years. After another two years, those who are good and worthy and well rated may become permanent. You're going to tell me, "Is that possible?" It is the only way to recruit staff throughout Central and Northern Europe. We decided very well and enabled private doctors to work - not just on duty - on the morning shifts of hospitals. That's what used to be. Mr. Loverdos had only legislated for the province. It is something that has been done outside for decades with very substantial results. Why not apply it here too? Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that this global health crisis has once again shown that it is the German hospital system that is in world leadership. To us, as we know, in 1983 the late George Gennimatas created the ESS, pioneering for his time, in image and in harmony with British NHS. But it is also clear that with the years and the Anglo-Saxon system and our own ageing system, it is becoming more and more dysfunctional, despite the valuable efforts that have been made from time to time by all governments to modernise it. The view that putting money and hiring staff will improve, step back on their feet is simplistic and wrong. Those who are capable and those who are committed to putting themselves in a galley, it doesn't make it fresh. Ladies and gentlemen, the German hospital system chooses its managers - take care - always maintaining social and non-profit-making property, always throughout it. It therefore selects its managers, financial managers and medical managers, using indicators such as DRGs, analytical accounts and cost centres, quantitative and qualitative indicators of medical performance that ensure their effectiveness. These managers provide enormous opportunities for autonomy, which are moving and ranging from staff recruitment, from procurement to private work within the clinic, from cooperation with private workshops to specialisation and expansion of units. This is the secret of world excellence. Modernisation of the ESS means the adoption of such functions and structures. It's not hard. Technical tools exist. There is also experience in hospitals for the U.S.S. for the detailed accounting. We all know the D.R.G.s exist in the Ministry. We can and we can soon. The crisis, ladies and gentlemen, has shown the enthusiasm, the importance of primary care. The people concerned know that there are basically two systems in Europe: Beveridge with the hard gatekeeping of the family doctor in the Commonwealth and Bismarck, the German, throughout Central Europe. There's something special about us. Of course, we have the rural-type health centres, which have a long-term stability and provide very specific services and from there on there there is a remnant of past efforts, such as the multimedicals of IKA, the family doctors of fixed wages, the 10 euro contracts and two hundred patients, the TOMYs and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Bismarck system offers full medical care with full cover of the insurance fund, without any burden on the user and indeed with a free choice and a family and a special doctor. It is a fully transparent system, a system completely self-regulation by its regional associations of cash doctors and a system that is completely costly and we could transfer it here within two, three years. The WPA quite rightly provides for measures to deal with the homeless, vulnerable groups, the extension of the right to medical care and the uninsured. These show that there is no structural and lasting response. Ladies and gentlemen, since bankruptcy, and then we Greeks have shown that we have a soul. But we showed that we don't have a state of health, a state of welfare. There's volunteering, there's charity, there's social pharmacies, there's social grocery stores, there's piles. But you know very well that all of this in the countries - Member States of Europe, Central and Northern Europe, is provided by definition by state social services. It is now an opportunity to build a national welfare system. I'm hanging up with something that I think is essential. These are private health services to tourist destinations that are inevitable, because it is not possible for the State to have that seasonality. Employees are very well aware that these doctorates are doctorates corresponding to hundreds of thousands of euros per season.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u374	But close it. You've been over six minutes long. Last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u375	I'm closing, Mr. President, right away. It is also clear that these doctorates here by decision of the Ministry have a key role to play in public health. They must be regulated by ministerial decisions setting out all the conditions for their operation and all the conditions for their existence. I should like to close, Mr President, by thanking you for this tolerance. We'll make it in summer and winter. And once the vaccine comes, let us be ready to finally change our state, creating a social state worthy of Europe. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u376	The speaker of the Movement of Change, Mr Michael Katrinis, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u377	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on a day that is extremely burdened with the nation and Orthodoxy, on a day when we have heard some pleasant messages about Europe's determination to manage this unprecedented health and economic crisis, we are discussing the two acts of legislation and at least fifty additional articles that emerged in the process. It is a typical example of the government's maladministration which, in any case, does not confirm either its intention to operate the final state, nor of course the new regularity which, with such ease, is euphoric, but also with such great discretion as to be given. It is a first-class opportunity, however, for today's debate to make a sincere but fair assessment of what was legislated several days ago in relation to their speed of implementation and what had an impact on the economy and society. Because the speed of implementation of political decisions and legislative regulations is also worth covering the social groups in need, but of course also the course of containment of the recession in this economic stimulus experienced by home and entrepreneurship in general. The highly successful, Mr. Chiodras, has welcomed the daily briefing for three days. Unfortunately, government majority officials are trying to work on the successful health management of the previous space. At some point they should realise that we should talk about the decisions in the economy and the consequences they have on everyday life. I will give some characteristic examples. The first article of the Act of Legislative Content on 13 April authorizes the Minister to adopt a decision on co-ordinated and inter-regulated companies, limited liability and private capital companies. It's been forty-five days. So I ask: has this ministerial decision been adopted which we will formally ratify in a few hours? Because people who have a peer-to-peer and even other companies, having been afflicted since the beginning, because they have been outside the affected sectors, after an attempt has been made to get the allowance, today we find that, unfortunately, this decision has not been taken. Second example: Retroactive Pensioners Tax. In February, you extended the deadline for the submission of excessive increases and fines granted for pensioners' retrospectives. It's been three months. You are coming today and you are re-expanding, but a ministerial decision has not yet been adopted to justify these people, who are being called upon to pay for the retrospectives they earned after legal proceedings. Third example: Reimbursable advance. Adopted on 30 March. A week ago, almost two months later, the money reached the beneficiaries. However, the repayable advance was a working capital that was supposed to give professionals liquidity in the face of the re-start of the market in order to be able to obtain and move more comfortable. The aim was not to be taken by some of them after the market was opened, and not all of them. There are too many examples of rough legacy. Article 36 is a characteristic. Refer to the new mobile antenna licensing scheme that with such a reforming oestrus you brought to the draft "Invest in Greece and other provisions" and you say that it is regrettably dysfunctional and we are coming back to 2012. Another example is Article 4 of the amendment to the operating hours of a specific commercial enterprise on Sunday, which is exactly the same as the content of the ministerial decision that the ERC had applied for and was intended to be discussed in the Council of State on 6 June. Today the government comes and says, "I have no political disagreement, no legal action, because I have the House where I can legislate and override any action by any professional sector." Professionals really wonder, Minister, in this respect. As they wonder about the lack of liquidity in the real economy. Has there been any evaluation, ladies and gentlemen, of TEPIX II? We have heard that on 20 May we will have the first assessment to see where it goes. Today the Minister for Finance said that 800m euros were given. Nobody knows who took them. The government says it's going to make a liquidity observatory. The Development Bank had presided over a three-member monitoring committee. It was abandoned and runs afterward to find out what the whole market lives, that 80% of small and medium-sized enterprises are outside the liquidity tools decided by the government. I have a complaint about the correct measure of Article 23 of the Act of Legislative Content on 13 April, which provides for the lifting of insurance information for farmers in order to go to bank lending. It is the only relief measure that this government has put in place for farmers and farmers almost three months after the crisis and lockdown. While applying it to farmers, you do not apply it to professionals and leave them out. We have tabled an amendment to the regional media. We believe that the regional media had the same share of contribution in the reliable and valid information. Therefore, they should also have a part of advertising expenditure and, of course, benefit from beneficial exemptions which we, as a Change Movement, propose to extend for another three months as a minimum sample of recognition and support for a sector affected. Social agenda questions: Andreas Poulas, George Mulkiotis and Andreas Loverdes were mentioned. With regard to industrial relations, we have a radical ideological disagreement with every effort, which opens the door to elasticisation of industrial relations, less wages, less work, less rights. Although we understand the critical nature of the situation and the seriousness, we believe that this will give the alibi too many to abuse. I conclude, Mr President, and thank you very much for your tolerance on the issue of the protection of first residence. On 1 May 2020, ladies and gentlemen, for twenty-six hours Greece was found not to have a first home protection status after ten years. The three-month extension of SYRIZA's failed law by Law.4605/19 with the eight hundred and thirty regulations in one hundred and thirty thousand potential beneficiaries - this is the protection framework that the Minister of Finance said to us on time and, at the same time, that the government refuses to do so on the bankrupt and first placement, and at the same time when the suspension of auctions that you bring today until 31 July and practically will apply until 15 September, forget to say that on Monday, payment orders are normally continued by cheque, for payment and foreclosure or foreclosure or foreclosure or expedition. They will be seen by the citizens on Monday and will only be left with the typical part of the auction, which will take place at a massive rate in October, in order to cover all cases which have been postponed. Unfortunately, this is the environment in which we will be moving in the next period and I am very afraid that the government, apart from having no agenda for the real economy and the small and medium-sized professionals, does not, unfortunately, show the slightest sensitivity to key issues of social welfare and social cohesion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u378	Mr Besiropoulos, Secretary of State for Finance, has the floor in order to develop the amendments to his powers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the ratification of the two legislative acts of 13 April and 1 May 2020 are accompanied by a number of amendments, which are moving towards support for the economy, which is dynamically relaunching. This is not static, but requires constant intervention in support of sectors of the economy, workers, professionals and taxpayers. The European Commission's recent proposal on the Recovery Fund opens a new page on the Greek economy. It creates the conditions not only to return in 2021 to dynamic growth rates, but also to redesign the country's production pattern. To make our economy more competitive and less vulnerable. In my speech to the Committee on Economic Affairs, I mentioned in detail the content of the two legislative acts which are essential support for enterprises, workers and households. The extension of financial aid to undertakings which do not employ or employ up to five and up to twenty-five employees, the three-month extension of the protection of first residence and the extension of the 25% discount arrangement to the instalments of certified firms and natural persons are positive arrangements. The same applies to the 25% discount for the payment of certain debts in the short term, which will also apply in May. These shall be payments in the short term, in respect of instalments of accredited debts and set-off instalments, or a partial payment facility with a payment date within May 2020 and shall benefit companies and natural persons. It also extends, for May, the 40% reduction in rents for professional leases to enterprises affected by the pandemic, first-resident leases and workers who are in suspension of a contract of employment, as well as student rentals for dependent members of these employees. I would like to refer to the amendments, which are particularly important, since they provide solutions to the existing problems and support the real economy. I mentioned before the regulation to extend the rental reduction measure by 40%, for business leases and first home leases to those affected by the consequences of the pandemic. It is a fact that, for reasons of equality and social justice, there is a need to compensate for the losses suffered by property owners in their income. The provision for owners of property included in the amendment provides for a 20% discount on the monthly salary of 60% of the months in which the payment of the monthly rent is to be effected at 40%, calculated before that reduction, with a view to minimising the loss caused by the loss of income. The above discount will be granted to tax debts with a final date of payment on 31 July 2020. The tax deduction relates essentially to the repayment of tax obligations of owners of real estate in 2020, such as income tax or HISPIA. A Ministerial decision will soon be adopted, specifying the procedural issues for determining and declaring the loss of income. At the same time, it is clear from the law that there will be no tax on property owners in 2021 for amounts not collected due to a 40% reduction in rents under the law. I should also like to point out that property owners, who receive reduced rents, are being facilitated at another point as an extension of the payment of the certified debts and set-up instalments and the collection of their dues is suspended. To be more specific, I will say exactly what will happen: for those who receive reduced rents in March and April, the deadlines are extended until 31 August 2020. For those who have received reduced rentals for the month of May, the extension shall be valid until 30 September. For those who receive reduced rents and in June, the extension is valid until 30 October. The need to finance the economy, to reverse the recession and to strengthen liquidity, requires an increase in the public investment budget expenditure limit for 2020 by EUR 250 million in the national strand and by EUR 1 billion in the co-financed strand. In fact, we have an increase in the Public Investment Programme of EUR 1 billion. As you know, the Government recently announced measures to cover part of the wage costs of workers. The funding will be made through the 'SURE' programme, which is why Article 2 has been included in the amendment, enabling the Minister of Finance to provide the Greek State with the guarantee to the institutions and bodies of the European Union to finance its Member States under European Union regulations or transnational agreements. It is necessary for our country to participate in the 'SURE' programme to cover the wage costs of workers, but also in any similar financial programme with these characteristics. Article 3 of the amendment is very important, since it refers to reducing VAT rates. A measure to contribute to the regeneration of the market and to the support of key sectors of the economy, such as tourism, transport or focus. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] In particular, VAT on the transport of persons is reduced from 24% to 13%, which means reductions in the price of air, sea and land transport, but also in public transport, such as metro and buses. The VAT on cinema tickets is reduced from 24% to 13%. The VAT is reduced from 24% to 13% for drinks of all kinds without alcohol, coffee and drinks, for energy drinks and beers without alcohol. The new reduced VAT rates will apply from 1 June and for five months until 31 October 2020. Financial support measures are also extended for urban or inherited law societies as well as for co-ownerships. Article 6 of the amendment also introduces the extension for June of the 40% reduction in the rent for business leases, for which the measure was in force in March, April and May. It is also planned to extend the measure up to August and to those firms that are still affected all this time, a regulation that will support businesses active in the tourism sector. I would like to point out that the beneficiaries of the scheme are workers whose employment contracts are suspended in the affected companies, who may have a 40% discount on the rent paid for their principal residence and for the student residence of their children, which is mentioned in the next article. This measure shall also apply to the principal residence of seafarers by suspension of a contract of employment not later than August at the latest. Ladies and gentlemen, the government knows that there are professional groups affected by the crisis and their income has been reduced. We move rationally, analyse all the data and move on to the necessary interventions. We are all aware that the air transport sector has suffered a severe blow, that airplanes have fallen into the ground because of pandemic and restrictive measures, and that there is a serious loss of income for these people. A substantial support measure is to regulate the introduction of a 15% tax rate on the monthly compensation received by commanders, co-governs and aircraft engineers based in Greece, who are tax residents of Greece. In fact, we are dealing with this category in the same way as tax officers and ship crew officers. In order to strengthen the production of antiseptic fluids, as well as the existing stocks of pure alcohol from nursing establishments in the country, we define the donation procedure for the disposal of ethyl alcohol to the Ministry of Health by legitimate holders and the unclaimed stocks of the Independent Public Revenue Authority in order to be used by hospitals, therapies and other public institutions for medical purposes or for the manufacture of antiseptics. The VAT exemption for the manufacturing of antiseptics by industrial and craft enterprises on behalf of the Ministry of Health is also laid down. At the beginning of my speech, ladies and gentlemen, I spoke about the prospect of redesigning the country's production model which is being opened, with one of these new axes focusing on the development of information and communication technologies, as well as on new technologies in general. This objective is served by the provision that the ownership of the Greek State is transferred to the public seven hundred acres to the public limited company called "Alexandria Innovation Zone S.A.". The property is located in Perea in the Municipality of Thermaikos. The purpose is to establish and operate an international fourth generation technology park, which will be financed by private funds. In fact, it is foreseen that if private funds are not raised within two years for its financing, or if the conditions set, the property will return to the Greek State. In fact, through this activity, investment in new technologies will be encouraged, research activities will be exploited, a start up will be provided, but the conditions will also be created for the return of young people who left Greece during the major crisis. Under Article 11 of the amendment, which aims to strengthen the tourism and transport sectors, exemption from excise duty is suspended until 31/12-2022 for products made available from duty-free shops located outside the airport or port and transported to travellers' personal luggage. Finally, Article 12 of the amendment regulates issues relating to the granting of a simple use of hayalos and beaches exclusively for the year 2020 and for reasons related to the treatment of the consequences of the pandemic. In particular, in order to provide financial support for self-government, we are changing for the benefit of the municipalities the quota for revenues from the concession of agialou and beach. This means that the consideration for the simple-use concessions on the Aegean and the beach is attributed 70% to the relevant OTA and 30% to the public, while so far the revenue ratio was 60% to the municipality and 40% to the public. It is also laid down that the consideration for a simple use on a seaport, especially for 2020, will be reduced by 60%, a support measure for businesses active in tourism, leisure and catering operations. Finally, up to 31-10-2020 on the adjacent side to the Aegean Sea and the beach rent furnished rooms, apartments, which operate legally can be granted the right to a simple use without auction. It should be noted that in this case the area of each concession may not exceed five hundred square metres, while all other restrictions provided for in the law are maintained. Ladies and gentlemen, some may have been disturbed by the increased reflexes shown by the government in dealing with pandemic in the health field and also in the field of the economy. For the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, it is an unnecessary luxury to spend on controversy of this kind. Our project is the recovery of the economy. Let us regain the "small" of growth. To support the real economy, workers and businesses. That's what we're doing and that's what we're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u380	Thank you too, Minister. Mr Athanasios Ljupis has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr Xanthos. Mr. Lippe, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u381	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, a difficult period of time has been successfully completed, during which we have experienced unprecedented situations. So we are in a position today to discuss the next day, but let us not be deceived. It wasn't our good fortune that favored us. It was the Prime Minister's determination, it was the policies based on scientific knowledge, it was the policy aimed at health and life rather than the economy. Karya changes led the government quickly in the midst of the pandemic to prepare the National Health System properly. Today's bill includes many of these decisive interventions. The first legislative act enabled public hospitals to cooperate with private doctors of different specialties by providing a service card, in the event that there were a thorny, massive imports of patients. The same legislative act also provided for the possibility of moving medical, nursing and paramedical personnel from local health establishments to health centres or other public health structures. Because of the virus, doctors of primary health care units provided their services at home or by remote means of communication. One of the first measures taken was the possibility of issuing intangible recipes and opinions to curb travels and contacts between doctors and patients in the midst of a pandemic. In an effort to provide practical support to hospital staff who have exaggerated themselves, they will be responsible for the on-calls of hospitals that have been carried out in excess of the ceiling on additional on-calls. Reassessment and restructuring of the health regions after 31-12-2020, discharge from the rural office of doctors who entered medicine between 2002 and 2005, is being introduced so that these young qualified today to provide services directly to the National Health System, without preventing them from leaving the countryside and not leaving abroad. Physicians who offered services to the ICUs or specialists who ended the training can stay if there are vacant posts and want to do so. Exceptional financial assistance for 2020 is given to medical, nursing and cleaning staff of ICUs or MAFs where patients were treated with CIVID -19. Perhaps we should, Minister, include the physiotherapists who are also working in the ICU and who, together with the EMCDDA, at risk, participated in the very good result. This bill takes the next step towards the fortification of public health with a sufficient number of doctors of nursing staff. In addition to the over four thousand medical, nursing and other recruited staff, a thousand eight hundred new intensifiers, specialists and specialist nurses are set up to serve the new ICUs of the country's hospitals. In addition, there are hundreds of seventy positions for the three islands of the northern Aegean that accept migration - refugee flows, but also tourism. There is also a way out of the time-consuming problem faced by hospitals, including the Hospital of Volos, with the modernisation of their operating organisation. You need to know, Minister, that new sections have been created, such as the Diadynamic and Magnetic Tomographer, and we cannot call doctors' seats with a cognitive object because they are not provided for in the organization. It is being extended - and rightly so - by the end of the year the possibility of approving the hospital agency through a CSM rather than by a presidential decree, so that the procedures can be completed more quickly. Overall, all the necessary moves have been made so that public health structures can meet even the most difficult pressure scenarios from the pandemic. And that's just the beginning. Based on the recent announcements by the Prime Minister, a new National Health System is planned that will effectively overcome the pathogens and problems of the past. And a little reference to the economic sector. It is assumed that the clear choice of the Prime Minister and the Government to prioritise human health has had and will have a significant impact on the economy. But not forget that the economic recession is reversible and we can deal with it. Today's bill contains a large number of provisions aimed at and supported by workers, businesses and professionals for as long as the quarantine was in place. Work support measures and not unemployment and tourism and food operations continue. Finally, it is important to extend the Public Investment Programme, which will now total EUR 8 billion for 2020. Finally, on the occasion of yesterday's forty-one-year anniversary of Greece's accession to the European Union, the EEC, from Constantine Karamanlis, is encouraging the change that we see in the European Union. In recent years, we have had fair complaints about the lack of real sympathy and solidarity. Of course, solidarity did not arise on its own. The Prime Minister's long-term efforts and cooperation with other European leaders to this end are well known. However, the announcement of a huge package of support for the Member States is the practical proof that the European Union is returning to its direction. Greece will receive support of perhaps EUR 32 billion more than under the "SURE", "TEPAX", the European Investment Bank and the flexibility of the ESRB, will make a decisive contribution to strengthening employment, reducing unemployment, supporting business and growth. The next day it finds Europe determined to overcome the new challenge and Greece is ready to capitalise on the economy the enormous success it had in tackling the health crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u382	Mr. Andreas Blonde from SYRIZA has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u383	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a new stage in this very great trial, the very great globalised threat affecting horizontal countries, societies, economies and health systems. The first period has passed and you must realise, ladies and gentlemen, that the positive course of the pandemic in the country and the avoidance of a health tragedy and the euphoria caused by this event have an end date. Now it's getting hard. Now it is the real challenge both for the economy and for employment and for people's income and for the health system. Now that its tactical function is back, now that we have an increased risk in the summer season in areas which are obviously a deficit for health services, now is the time for politics, and now is the time for the different political plans. We stood with responsibility and seriousness, and you know that. Nor have we invested in destruction, as you have done many times in the past, nor have we called into question the health strategy that the country must have. We have demonstrated gaps, inadequacies, shortcomings in which there have been, erroneous manipulations, opaque manipulations. But now is the time to discuss how we use this crisis, this opportunity of pandemic, to make a great investment in public care in our country, to shield the public system. Here, let me say that there are two distinct political plans. There is a political conservative plan, which is cowardly - you are now starting to bring it back to the public debate. Your argument about waste and ineffective ESS had been made a crack, about statement, about the need to open up the private sector, on the market, on private insurance companies, on public-private partnerships. This was the New Democracy's programming policy agenda. The pandemic put this conversation aside. The question is, have you learned any serious lessons from this development? In our view, no. You do not believe the public health system, which is why now that you feel that the big boom has passed, the debate is starting again. The Prime Minister comes out and says "we have pillars that need to cooperate", we have the well-known argument "another state and another public". Except that these state structures have kept the health system up, they have managed the crisis and I have not seen anywhere in the non-State sector with which you want to cooperate to put back on this difficulty or on the new needs that have arisen at the moment, a family doctor, primary care, Community care, Community mental health services, rehabilitation, health and safety of work, public health, environmental health. These are the new challenges of the pandemic. Also, ICU, TLU. There's no private investor who wants to put back on these things and who wants to deal with them. State structures, therefore, are the narrow public health system that will be called upon to reorganise, improve, shield themselves in order to be able to deal with them in the long term, so that we have reliable public health services, a permanent epidemiological surveillance mechanism that can deal with new waves of the same threat, but also new emerging threats. So that is the conservative political plan. There is a progressive political plan, which says that the crisis is an opportunity to strengthen the universal coverage line through reinforced public health systems, which reduce inequalities, which reduce burdens on citizens, which provide enlarged, qualitative and evaluated services. This is another line. You don't want that line. You don't have a political plan for permanent support. What you are doing today, which is in the right direction, the introduction of organic positions for the ICMs, obviously if it is not accompanied by notices, is an empty letter. That is quite clear. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You have not, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, been launched ten months now, with your own political planning, by your own approval, by your own Ministerial Council act and not by using outdated things, it has declared a permanent position in the public health system - not even one! - No doctor, no nurse. You have from December frozen a thousand three hundred and fifty seats approved and you have not even announced them now in the pandemic. So don't tell us now that you want a deposit and a permanent investment and a lot of pain and a lot of tear for the public health system! You want to slowly return to the logic of the lesser state and the shrinking public health system that gives space to the market.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u384	Mr Colleague, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u385	And let me say, there are various movements in this period. I have heard Mr Varzopoulou too, and I have heard the previous colleague. They considered it important that the possibility for hospitals to cooperate with private doctors was institutionalised. Luckily, I didn't have to. So what's wrong with the administration of the 6th U.S. and sends an urgent message to the hospitals in Achaia and asks them to give it in a few hours what are their needs in the various categories of qualified doctors to cooperate?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u386	Mr. Colleague, you've reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u387	Mr President, I will try to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u388	Please. You understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u389	Sure. I therefore think that this is the real separating line, a progressive and conservative health policy plan. And on a progressive political project there can be - and it is a privileged field - a programme of convergences and cooperation in an honest manner between the forces of the progressive opposition, so that there can also be an alternative to today's monopoly and that we can go to the next elections - whenever they become, in a mere analogue way - and there can be a convincing alternative. This is, therefore, a privileged field, support for the weak of the social state. The figures in Europe say that the pupils are growing because of the pandemic, inequality is growing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u390	Mr. Comrade, you've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u391	It wants a redistribution policy, a reduction in inequalities, and not policies that consider inequality to be inherent with the...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u392	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u393	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u394	No, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u395	A reference to one amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u396	You've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u397	I'm so sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u398	... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u399	I didn't understand you, Miss Fotio. You're interrupting. Mr. Xanthos, please very much have it completed. You've been talking for an hour and a half already.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u400	I'm sorry about the abuse. I support the JRC's amendment on the possibility for the Ioannina University Hospital to renew cleaners contracts, which lead to dismissal. We have tabled an amendment of our own, which broadens the arrangements you have made for pneumonology and anesthesiology. It enables, in other words, some of the colleagues who have made the specialty, but who owe the rural person, to be able to carry out specialisation tests, to enter the lists for advisors and to support the health system at this stage. Look at her. I think it can be accepted and supplement a regulation that makes it easier. And the last one...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u401	Mr. Comrade, you're in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u402	One word I'll say about the amendment that concerns...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u403	Please! You're in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u404	Please, I'll be done. The amendment you tabled - the Ministry of Health - concerning nursing staff, the possibility of specialisations, qualifications, etc., has positive elements. It does not address the two, three crucial requests of the nursing industry, the single industry, the integration into the BAE and the upgrading of the payroll, it does not specify exactly how these people will be chosen and whether the certification of their experience and expertise will have a distinct role in recruitments that will take place in the health system through AAP, etc. In this sense we will be in 'present' in this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u405	Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, no Member can be allowed to speak twice as much time as the one Parliament has decided.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u406	We can't finish two hundred five articles in eight hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u407	Mrs. Fotou, I have voted for more articles. I will not, however, enter this process today, make comparisons or anything else. Something has been decided in the Conference of Presidents. If you don't want me, Miss Fotio, I'll interrupt you, I'll stop you. If you want someone to speak for twelve minutes and another six, you have the wrong way to think. It's not that democratic, Mrs. Fotio. You who have an opinion on democracy must also respect other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u408	We saw democracy how you used it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u409	I therefore say that the Bureau will not be allowed to arrive at two o'clock at night. The next speaker is Mr Pafilis. Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor. Please be in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u410	It's two hundred five articles. I don't know how many amendments we've come to...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u411	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u412	Mr Colleague, we have from time to time voted on many articles. You've been Minister and you've brought a lot of things, Mr. Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u413	Now look, don't yell too much. You did the same. New Democracy used to do the same thing with PASOK. Don't tell us that now. We have a memory. You've brought more and more. And these are very serious. So don't yell that much. As for those who protest, we voted against. We have asked for two meetings at the outset, and so on, but you know that the majority decides, as was decided on your days. We don't forget that. Let me move on. Mr Chakalotos is not here, but I would like to make a reference, because every time he goes back to the JRC. And he told us? He told us that we were referring everything to socialism. We have never hidden that we are fighting for socialism and that socialism, based on the experience of the positive that exists and the negative ones, will face and solve all the problems and will live a decent and human life. We never hid that. But do not tell us that we are referring everything there, when we are at the forefront of racing, workers' claims, when we table proposals that can be made today rather than socialism, which can alleviate workers, etc. However, we will not hide - nor are we in 2010 or 2012 - that through this great health crisis all your developed systems have emerged dramatically. Americans, Swedish and others chose who would die and who would live. That's the inhumanity. And we say that the dilemma of socialism or barbarism is the great question of the time. And we call socialism. Uh, SYRIZA served barbarity four to five years and doesn't criticize us now. Anyway, where are those big SYRIZA troops in the games that happen every day? They're all over the place. They don't talk about anything. We and other radicals - not just us - and other progressive people are fighting today for immediate problems. I would like to ask one question: do you support the JRC's amendment to 'LARCO'? Do you agree? Did you read it? Why don't you take a seat on this? Did you say that about Larco? Do you support her?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u414	We said we were supporting her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u415	That's hypocrisy. That's a mock to the world, and that's what I call it. All these years we've been telling you to do. We've been talking about what we've been talking about all these years today. But you were a government and you did the opposite and brought the suffocation, despite the efforts made by some exceptionally from the administration. And you come now with the well-known "we do guerrilla when we're Antipopulation and then we put a suit and a straw when we're in government." Now I just wanted to talk about Larco, about Larco. Mr. Stavros is missing. It's okay. Let the Minister hear them too. You know, you need some attention to reducing workers. They were few today. What few? All the groups have a radical disagreement with Article 7, all of them. As a whole, workers disagree. As for how many people came, there were many and many were about such conditions that came out and don't underestimate them. What did Mr. Stavros say, the government? He said that we are legislating on unhealthyness, that we are restoring legitimacy, 'it will not be lost a single euro, we have a plan'. Is that so? We agree that you have the plan. The question is what the plan is. The plan is to cut off and dismantle what is left of the memoranda and the decisions of the previous governments, and that is, first of all, about non-wage spending, as you say, which is too many, and you have a plan to cut them off - only milk is left and these are 3.2 million a year - and also the unhealthy allowance that is 2.8 million a year. And we will prove it how, categorizing the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work. EAB paid most of the staff except for certain administrative staff. That is, of the thousand four hundred fifty, the thousand two hundred received the unhealthy allowance. Now they're going to get eight hundred 150, the others will get 70 and thirty-five will get a third charge. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I ask for a little tolerance. How was unhealthy given? From 1984 on the basis of the collective labour agreement to the implementation of the single wage. But there's a good mind, isn't there? There is, of course. But, well, does EAB that is a heavy industry put the same thing as offices and civil servants? That is what you have all done together in previous years, and that results in wages being cut off and valuable workers leaving, and I say that they are taking 8.9 and 10 000 in the month in which they have gone abroad. That's the level of highly qualified skills. We therefore say that they are paid on the basis of the single wage, the 150, and I will say why below. Since 2013 you had to issue a government agency that you determined which specialties will get what. You weren't in the government? You were. Did you publish it? No, like no government so far and the PASOK since 2013 that has been in the government. And can I tell you something? Did you get a hammer of what LVU means? Have you ever read the findings of the committees on unhealthyness? Do you realize what happens to workers, what breathe, what dangers are exposed? I can't read them. I'm going to put this out in the Minutes, the last of the committee on unhealthyness. We're talking about the most amazing thing about human health. They are exposed to toxic materials such as fluorine, antimony, manganese, nickel, titanium. Everyone knows. The consequences have not been fully clarified and there are unambiguous consequences for the rest. The evidence is here that they speak detailedly about these things. So what do they all say? It is not just those who are in production. They're all charged with a different degree, but almost everyone. Here too, you are exempting people from this system who are constantly entering the production process. You do not consider that it has a central air conditioning system and suspended particles are dispersed everywhere through this system. That's what the experts say, that's not what the JRC says, except the experts aren't JRC. They are those who, anyway, try to protect as much health and life as they can.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u416	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u417	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Of course, you do not take into account the risks of a serious accident which can take place either within the production unit or at the airport. Furthermore, ODA clients and LOCKHEED themselves require that they provide jobs to ensure that staff are insured for their life and health. There's a group insurance company right now. Would you cut that, too? He's at the non-wage cost. Of course, there are many other aspects. You say, and you lie and I say it like that, that you're hiring. What kind of recruitment do you do? Permanent staff? None. These are yearly contracts, which are renewed every year and in five years there is a new competition. And that's criminal, and with the logic of capitalist I'd say, because when one specializes - there's no job, when you're dealing with planes and machines like that - and he's ready in five years, you shoot him - to say it in a simple language - or not to give him the possibility...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u418	Finish, Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u419	I'm done, Mr. President. I will only tell you one, what the committee says here, that the 150 you give the most dangerous and the most exposed specialities should be for office officials and everyone else would take more on the basis of the risks that exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u420	You'll get Mr. Blonde.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u421	So what are they asking for? First, to repeal Article 43 of Law 4487/2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u422	About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u423	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u424	Who did this, lady you're yelling at? The SYRIZA Government which effectively prohibited collective agreements in undertakings under the General Government. To remain as unhealthy as a first measure, not to change anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u425	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u426	Finally, are these packages and polars going to Larco? Are they going to EAB? Why not? Where are you going with this? Go out and say, Mr. Secretary, the packages people will pay if you take them there. Also, let me give you this conclusion. Read it to see the crime you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u427	Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot go to ten from six minutes. Think about it for the other Members who follow. Mr. Pschakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u428	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of Health operates as a bridge from the recession to the growth bank. The aim is to achieve maximum, with proper strategic planning. They deserve credit to those who have contributed, and especially to the scientific bodies who have made the necessary measures in due time. Respect for human existence has been rendered. The health system has been strengthened and we are now a model of management and an example of responsibility. They also belong to the credits and heroes with green and white aprons. The increase in overtime from 9% to 15% demonstrates respect and recognition. This draft law extends a network of protection and affection to all citizens, introduce arrangements that extend the duration of support measures, lay down the conditions for a gradual reintroduction to normal social and economic action, introduce new provisions that strengthen the ESS with medical potential by Greek doctors abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, hospitals, health centers and Evros' military KIXNEs have contributed to the management of the pandemic throughout the region. The University General Hospital of Alexandroupolis was a reference hospital. I also note the positive contribution of the Dubot Hospital for Northern Evros and thank you for its characterisation, Minister, to 'Type I'. The increase of beds from a hundred to twenty in more than fifty, as well as of the ten beds of the artificial kidney unit in twenty, is considered necessary. Its upgrading will also be a training centre for the many local nursing school. Ladies and gentlemen, modern and serious states with the national police are implementing measures of physics, technique, electronics and electronics as regards the protection of our borders. The use of the term "fence" disturbs us, reduces us and discredits us. We are protesting both as a people and as a region. The term ‘prohibiting technical barriers’ is the aptitude and peculiarity of the term. Evros is an open and cross-cutting society, with roads, rail and sea entry points with all its neighbours. The only one who doesn't want the deterrent is the neighboring country. It is a lightness to reproduce false news promoted by the black Turkish propaganda. Greece's first post-war victory over its neighbour is being lifted. We must be united in the face of the challenges and threats, honour the hundreds of years of free Thrace and the timeless struggle to defend borders. Evros is the good memory of the greatest empire in the history of mankind, although the neighbor is causing us even on the black anniversary. Ladies and gentlemen, we feel safe because we have Captain Mitsotakis. I would remind you that the four candidates were declared new President of the New Democracy. I'm turning the clock backwards. The next day, 7-10-2015, with invitations, I asked the four to start their election campaign for reasons of high symbolism by Evros. A copy of this letter is given in the Minutes of Parliament. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios (Tsos) Practically presents the above letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On October 12, Sunday and 09.15, the current Prime Minister says to me that, in response to my call, he reached Evros. According to his programme, we visited the Customs, Fylakio 1, the historic, as well as the deterrent barrier in Castani. All this in the brownies. The visit was the first political act of a candidate president and was marked by his actions as important policies. He sent messages to many addressees. Our neighbors read him unorthodoxly. We are lucky, that's why we believe him and we thank him. It remains firmly unaltered to the authorities, the values of home care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u429	Thank you for the time. Mrs Irene-Eleni Agathopoulos has the floor for six minutes from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u430	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are not discussing a law that is to be implemented after its adoption, but we are dominating an act of legislation which has already been implemented to a very large extent in the past urgent period of the pandemic and which has been well implemented. So today the critical questions that are being asked concern the results of this application. Of course, we are not only voting for these provisions, but, in all other respects, there are provisions which have no urgency, such as the extension of the Evros fence, with unconditional awards, irrespective of the budget of expenditure and by way of derogation from any other provision. I'll start with that last one. Your first and only concern, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to deal with the refugee - immigration at this point in time is to raise a fence in Evros after the great success of the floating fence in the sea and solve the problem, right? Oh, no. The substance is another. Even this morning, Mr. Mitarakis admitted to the House with a lot of analgesia that ten thousand people will be unleashed, that is, refugees who have already taken refuge at the end of the month. And where are they going? It's none of your business. On the way. Ten thousand people on the street. There are others who are without medical treatment, since the provisional number of foreign insured and health care is empty so far and let us not count on them and the enclaved on the islands. These are the problems, ladies and gentlemen. I imagine, however, that your conservative wing, which you too want to satisfy, does not even let you think that these people will be burdening the collective medical burden with unwanted consequences for the whole society and not just for themselves. Of course, these may be fine letters for you. We suggest, however, that instead of wasting food, but also resources to pete the ears of your far right wing and the Greek Solution, give substantial solutions to the problem: Health coverage of refugees and migrants, recruitment of doctors for all hosting structures, integration programmes and decongestion of the islands, and finally keep the allocation quota all over Greece and not play customer games there. Karpenissi, Bakoyannis. Everyone who knows what I mean. You should also ask your partners in the European People's Party to do the same. So let us bear in mind that all the countries of Europe are in a similar position to the burden on us. But let me come to the health section. Fortunately, we have come out with very few losses of this health crisis and are therefore worth congratulating both the Scientific Committee and the Ministry for hearing its advice and the medical staff of the public hospitals and, of course, the citizens who implemented the measures. The staff of hospitals, ladies and gentlemen, despite the shortages of staff, materials and in many cases modern equipment, have been personally self-determination to keep the health system up. They have heard many congratulations on this, but also many commitments. But Mr. Kontozamanis came to committee yesterday to put things in place by saying: "The fact that the state helps people face a crisis does not mean that capitalism is dead. This is the work of the state, in exceptional and rare cases, such as in this case, the public health system to use its tools." In short, the public health system for emergency cases and health marketing for your normality. Obviously you don't surprise us. Firstly, because even in the midst of a pandemic you did not hesitate to support the private sector bravely by doubling the daily compensation for private clinics and, secondly, because according to the WHO and the European Commission's data from the Health Monitoring Mechanism, the support of the ESS at this time mainly came from the donations of private individuals and the recruitment of subsidiary staff and was in no way permanent. However, you must give concrete answers to specific questions, first of all, as far as donations are concerned. You did not accept the setting-up of a cross-party committee for their management. Will you give us evidence even after a holiday? What donations have we accepted, how have they been distributed and how have they been exploited? Secondly, you have legislated the employment of private doctors in the ESS to fill gaps. How many doctors and where? They're busy? So you plan to keep covering the gaps in public hospitals? You are also talking about new ERC hospital organisations. For example, I will report to you, because I know well, the project organisation at Kilkis Hospital, which has been in place since 2017, and is provided for in ICU. We hope you can accept it as it is. But the ITHs, Minister, are not just beds and respirators, they are personal. Do you know that the entire Regional Unit of Kilkis is without a pneumonologist? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Remove the agricultural for pneumonologists for anesthetics to act more quickly. But are you going to take out permanent and non-additional staff? Thirdly, the WTO spokesman at the stakeholders' hearing sounded the risk of returning contractors to focus, guard and clean up all hospitals. No one wants that, and not just the contractors themselves. Do you want it? If you don't want it, close the window you opened and give the right to direct employment contracts to hospitals, as was the case with SYRIZA. Finally, on the occasion of my position today, I would like to refer to and ask the Government to support the World Health Organization's Costa Rica Plan which proposes to create a global body that will buy patents and have them free of charge to any interested parties in order to produce them in time and at affordable prices of medicines and coronary vaccines. It's against your ideology and we know it. But it is for the benefit of the social system and you are due as a government to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u431	Thank you, Mr Agathopoulos, for the time. Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglu from the Change Movement now has the floor. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u432	Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of yesterday's enlargement to the EEC, I shall refer to the historic jurisprudence of the choice for the European orientation of the country, supported by the political forces of the country, regardless of their differentiation. However, what we must stress is that it is also justified today - and this must be heard by the unscrupulous and propagandas, but also by those who do not know and believe in the rest of us - that the fight by Andreas Papandreou, because the steel and coal Union and the EEC would not be able to respond today to the great needs of Europe for a recovery plan. The European Union is precisely the result of the question of the EEC model and of the narrow horizons. It is the European Union of the Community's support frameworks and the ESDPs, as a result of the new conception of the European perspective, for political unification. The first step was only the Mediterranean Integrated Programmes, some say. Greece has drawn up a strategy for integration into the hard core of the European Union, in the eurozone, in 1993, a strategy for Andreas Papandreou, which was implemented within eight years of joining EMU in 2001 with Prime Minister Costas Simitis. However, it has been shown by the fact that participation in the European Union was not enough, but also in the Eurozone, since the country did not have the same policy. The government after 2003, instead of taking advantage of the country's new position with the completion of modernisation, reforms and changes, followed the policy of derailment and inaction for necessary decisions leading to the 2009 crisis and the need for support programmes, for the memoranda, which was enough, as was done in other countries, under the responsibility of the people in each of the Memorandums. The worst part, however, was that the prevalence of supposedly anti-immemorials led to an abandonment of the reform programme of the PASOK government and George Papandreou. The so-called antimonetary in addition to the third, signed a quasi-fourth Memorandum with commitments for high surpluses by 2060 and a transfer of national and public property for ninety-nine years to the supreme creditors. All that antimony stuff. The Greek people, as they did not have to, experienced the results of the crisis for ten consecutive years. So what we are obliged to do today on the basis of that experience is to safeguard his sacrifices in trying to deal with the new crisis. Yesterday's European Union decisions allow the country to make use of resources and financial instruments from 2021 onwards, but the relevant policies are needed to do so. It's not going to happen with the machine. We need a plan for the regeneration of the ESS and of the welfare state that has emerged as the most valuable achievement of the PASOK policy, we need a plan for sustainable, green development, and of course for synchronisation with the digital age and the fourth industrial revolution. The Change Movement will be a pioneer in shaping both these projects and proposals to improve the conditions for the use of European funds for the best result. In the last trimester of the health crisis, we supported the scientists' recommendations and tabled concrete proposals to tackle its pandemic and its effects. At the same time, we have drawn up an integrated interim programme for direct implementation in support of work, entrepreneurship, production and socially weak. Given that the crisis widens social inequalities, we will insist on the dimension of social justice and social protection mechanisms and policies. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we regret to note that a valuable time is lost from the government's dystocia, which adopts some titles of our proposals, but not the content, which is often distorted. The integrated internal tourism programme for all and the 3 million that we have proposed has been degraded to a programme of up to 250,000, along with social tourism. Support for private-sector work, taking advantage of the European Union's 'SURE' programme, has proposed that it should be a million workers for six months, without any discounts on wages and rights. Unfortunately, instead of that, the government brings about the permanentization of semi-employment, reduced wages and wrongful rights. Support for all sectors, professionals and tourist workers is still being sought, as is support for the agri-food sector and for producers, without exceptions, where we see a great gap. Many categories of our fellow citizens have been forgotten from the support measures, such as those who are working on a job, which have not been considered to be either workers or unemployed to support. You are adopting some of our proposals, such as the one in the draft law on the exemption of insurance contributions from pensioners, with an annual agricultural income below 10,000, but the amendment is a monument of poor legislation. It does not show whether income is family, individual, taxable and because of non-retrospectiveness, the genome see what effect it gives. From 1-1-2020 to 28-2-2020 we will have a levy exemption for annual income under 4.923, under the Katrugalos Act. From 1-3-2020 to 31-5-2020, that is to say, the obligation to pay contributions even with 1 euro income under the New Democracy Act of 4070. From June 1, if the provision is voted on, we will have a tax exemption, since individual income does not exceed 10,000...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u433	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u434	Mr President, your tolerance. I want to refer to two articles and I closed. Article 7 on dangerous and unhealthy work in ODA, as mentioned, creates more problems than it is supposed to be trying to solve. Mr. Staruras told us we were absent. He's probably the same person. We were told by the workers in both OSH and OSH and not only by the workers, to tell Mr Stakoura. The amendment contained in the provision of Article 7 must not be voted on and, instead, our proposal, which we have tabled in an amendment, concerns the maintenance of all the benefits currently granted and guaranteed for the continuation of production in both the EAA and the EAA, such as, of course, the immediate adoption of the common ministerial decision on the benefits of dangerous and unhealthy work. Article 5 refers to the 2013 Retroactive Tax. Mr. Besyropoulou, it's not much time I praised you. In the end, I guess I was wrong. While you were committed to bringing in regulation, you are bringing us a new extension. Let's vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u435	Mr. Comrade, you will reach Mr. Palphie and Mr. Xanthos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u436	No, I'm not in danger, because they spoke 12 minutes. But I'm done. We have long called for the annulment of all the illegal acts of the tax administration and for the right to submit new additional declarations from beneficiaries, from taxpayers, without incremental increases. It concerns 2013 retrospectives for pensioners. There has been a complete circumvention of all the tax provisions, of the decisions of the CoR. on limitations. A criminal offense has been committed. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement as a responsible political body is holding opposition to a substance and not an impression. Yes, we are clearly against what is harming the country and society, but we are also here with our documentation, with our proposals to assist the effort that the country needs, so that we can have the least possible impact from the recession, which in fact is ahead of us. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u437	Ladies and gentlemen, we have the third quarter! One of his colleague SYRIZA, one of the Communist Party's colleague and one of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u438	But the others, you let them talk and I'm a rookie, and I lost them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u439	Ladies and gentlemen, I will say this again. If we keep this up, the last one will talk after midnight...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u440	No problem. When you decide at the Conference of Presidents, listen to me...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u441	Mr Kegeroglu, the Conference of Presidents has decided that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u442	Listen to me at the Conference of Presidents...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u443	Mr Chryssomalis from New Democracy has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u444	Six?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u445	Six, Mr. Comrade. There was a unanimous decision when Mr. Buras was president.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u446	I see how it's kept. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been following the bill and the debate since noon and I have been trying to understand exactly what opposition is saying. There is a rhetoric that is completely confused, in a complete strategic deadlock. First of all, it accepts that the government has worked best during the health crisis during the pandemic. The truth is that, when the pandemic began, and the political decision of Lockdown was made to protect even the last human life that could be protected, we had heard conflicting voices from the Opposition. In fact, we had heard several extreme voices, especially of Officer Response, "we will be accounted for, see how far the victims will reach if they reach the Eye" with the fire. Finally, because they saw that the Greek people welcomed the attitude of Mr.Mitsotakis and the political decisions made by this government, they came to say to us 'you did well during the health crisis'. Today they come to tell us that you are not doing well, facing the economic consequences of the health crisis, because precisely this multi-brand plan is the principle of dealing with all these consequences, of being able to keep businesses and workers, keep the country up and quickly reschedule the economy. The Response to all of this is three things, confusing to each other. First, scandals, scandals, scandals. Okay, the moral advantage of the Left is that it's the shortest joke that's ever been. You're talking about scandals in emergencies that don't exist. And who's saying that? The ones who made bakeries and cakes in Maximus, with businessmen and publishers. Nobody believes you. You're saying you'd give more. It's the second account, "leaf trees"! Listen, gentlemen of Officer Opposition. After the programme of Thessaloniki, after the abolition of the memorandum with a law and an article, you finally brought a third memorandum, you finally over-taxed everyone, you finally smashed the middle class, and the only thing that you were subsidized was a policy of benefits, which was poor, no one could live with it. You understand that this account, especially when it comes to Census Anti-Civilization, only laughter does it. I expected you to have a more constructive attitude. However, you prefer to discuss with the rhetoric of the time before 2015. And that's your whole strategy. Bet on the poverty of the country, bet on the poverty of our fellow citizens, bet on the indignation to take the vote. They're going this before 2015. From 2015 to 2020, two things have been mediated. Firstly, the rule of the "first time left", where all the myths and lies collapsed and the only ten-month rule of the current New Democracy Government, Mr.Mitsotakis, who proved that he managed not only the health crisis, not only the migration and attempt of Erdogan to smuggle just before the crisis, but also how he managed things as regards the rapid recovery of the economy and the quick measures he took, with which all indicators and all Houses upgraded the country. There is therefore a direct comparison. I heard Mr. Tsakalotos earlier in his report saying that we were given orders from the troika to take a topic for bankers. Are you serious? You, who went and voted for the superstitious - did not dare the government of George Papandreou then vote for it, did not discuss it for the Antonis Samaras government, did not dare to ask him - for ninety-nine years, will you speak of orders from the troika? If that's possible! From that point on, you know, our fellow citizens have now understood who are capable of managing things and have compared them. If you want to offer constructively for the country, here we are, and we hear your proposals and include them in our programme. But if you sincerely bet on the poverty of the country, bet on indignation to benefit from electorally, honestly, you do not offer any positive service to fellow citizens. You know, all these measures that this government is trying to do and doing - and you will see the results, because it has shown its abilities - are not just about the voters of the New Democracy. They are all about the Greek people and we are judged of this. If you consider yourself capable of managing these things, you know, there are solutions in the Republic. Ask them. The truth is - and I would like to stress this - that the crisis has also highlighted something else, that the European Union is aware at critical times of taking brave decisions. Was the question of all of us, and I do not hide that I, too, asked from this Step: "Would these brave decisions be taken?" It seems to be taking them, and so it has shown that they are a union of solidarity, that is a Union that wants to remain a Union and wants to go ahead. This came on a day like yesterday, when forty-one years ago, in fact, the national ruler, Constantine Karamanlis, with his personal experience - if you wish - put the country in the EEC at that time. Dear Mr. Kegeroglu, there is no need for stars and footnotes. Historically we admit that this was a historic - if you like - decision on the country which is justified over time and which ultimately served all the parties, even those who were shouting against the EEC at that time. In conclusion, I cannot comment on my previous colleague from SYRIZA, who said that the fence should not be built in Evros. Honestly, I've heard four or five different views on SYRIZA. Others want the fence, others want the fence a little, but not the fence, others don't want the fence. Apart from showing the confusion you have with regard to immigration, honestly today, in this Greek Parliament, when the neighbor makes these figurines of shame, do you come to ask that the fence not be constructed in Evros? Honestly, people will judge us. But such a day should not be said. Like today the City City City. And as the poet said: "Workful people to live him, but a little pride was worth it." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u447	Mr. Comrade, thank you. They have called for two Members of the Change Movement, Mr Kegeroglu and Mr Poulas, in writing, to speak by the Rules of Procedure. We're listening, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u448	Mr President, first of all there is a personal issue with the position of the colleague who has just come down from the Step and I would like to say that the PASOK and George Papandreou government have clearly refused to create an excess fund and to grant public property. The next co-operation government that I also took part refused it, but also because of the participation of the PASOK. If it wasn't for PASOK, I don't know what they'd do. Secondly, I said that we clearly did not have enough in the EEC. That is why we have spoken about the European Union. I would ask one of the signatories of the bill to come to the Rules of Procedure and have a legislative initiative, so that the procedure can continue, because once we are in contractual operation, the Rules will not be complied with only in some and others. I would ask the Minister with a legislative initiative to continue the process. The New Democracy raised a question of a bill debate, the meeting was interrupted, this bill was never passed, and today it comes and does this and wants to come out of it. Hey, no, guys! We said tolerance, but not so. If you want to continue very well, but with the presence of a minister with the legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u449	Mr President, on the subject you have raised, we have asked the Government Secretariat for information on this issue. Within a few minutes we will have their answer. Thank you. Now we will give the floor to continue the process and until the next speaker is completed, we will also have information from the General Secretariat of the Government. Mrs Theano Fotou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u450	I will be waiting, Mr President, because my colleague is right. We never left the Chamber. And I remember very well once when we went to water and the process stopped. I'll wait here for the minister to come.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u451	Madam Colleague, if you don't want me to go to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u452	You're not going. He has objected to a point of order and he is right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u453	We're waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u454	We'll be waiting. I won't speak in empty chairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u455	I was informed by the General Secretariat of the Government that Mr. Kikilias is coming any minute. If you want to interrupt the meeting for a while, we should interrupt a little bit for the well-known 15 minutes. Interrupt for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u456	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Minister, will you take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u457	I'll talk after my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u458	Mrs Theanoo Fotioou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u459	Ladies and gentlemen, with a bill of two hundred and five articles we are voting today on two legislative acts entitled'return to social and economic normality'. Unfortunately, the only normality that arises is the global regularity of recurring crises, endogenous like the 2008 budget or exogenous ones, such as COVID -19 or the climate change crisis. These normalities, endogenous and exogenous, are paid by the workers, the small and medium-sized, the weak, the vulnerable, the disabled, the women and the children. These normalities broaden inequalities, because neoliberal governments, such as yours, use these crises as an opportunity to dismantle industrial relations and small and medium-sized enterprises in favour of major interests and to dismantle the social state. Today all international organisations from the OECD to the IMF agree that countries that do not have a strong social state will be tested. I mean, health, education, welfare. Mostly the European south, Italy, Spain, Portugal and Greece. As much as SYRIZA tried to set up the social state at its feet, the New Democracy, with its entry into power, cut the costs of this social state with the good day and undermined its public and free character. He is now acting hypocritically on the EHS, on the National Health System. He prepares the premium for clinicians and all private health businesses, who have certainly not put back on the pandemic. Two hundred five articles in the bill and not one to justify the title 'Return to social normality'. What is social regularity for you? Neither an article of the plan to address the great catastrophe suffered by the country's households by the collapse of their incomes due to the pandemic crisis. You are the only government from all the countries of Europe, which is announcing courageous support for households, which has taken no action. The present pandemic crisis has a great peculiarity that the New Democracy does not want to understand. I don't think that's it. The Greek people will unfortunately pay for it. The peculiarity is that this crisis acts as a catalyst for the asymmetric widening of inequalities in Greek society. What does it mean asymmetrically expanding inequalities in society? It means that the precarious and poor zone is widened from the boundaries of society, namely the weak, the poor, the excluded, to the centre of society, that is, the middle, the upper layers. That is why the minimum guaranteed income for extreme poverty, which you renamed to CRLs, cannot deal with the situation, because the middle layers that have been deceived and voted on and today you leave them to their fate. The government does not even increase the minimum guaranteed income. It could do at least that to prevent rapid poverty, how much more to bother thinking about the need for a new safety net. This new security net has been developed in SYRIZA's "SYRIZA We Stay Upright" and is called emergency income. Our programme costs 3.5 billion for four months. It covers one million nine hundred thousand households with some four million fellow citizens. It's the partial replacement of their lost income. That's why none of you say it. Not for a joke. There's nothing Mr. Stavros could understand about that. He didn't mention that. The emergency income has a new structure. It includes new social groups affected by the pandemic, that is, all the unemployed, precarious workers, workers with blocks, disabled people, free traders, artists, small and medium-sized businessmen, farmers, farmers and fishermen, one million nine hundred and ten thousand people who together account for four million. These four million are invisible to the government. Households who have at least one member of these affected categories are entering into the enhancement of emergency income and are taking for a four-member family with two children of EUR 800: the first, namely EUR 400, his wife, or another adult member, EUR 200 and EUR 100 for each child. It's money that won't be saved. They don't come in offshore. They're on the market. Jiro for the stores so they won't close. That's what they do in Italy, Spain. In Greece, the president of GSBEE told us here the other day that they would close one of the three companies. They say all the studies of international organizations that with pandemic children and disabled people will be particularly affected. What are you doing for the kids? Will you repeat the school meal program SYRIZA left you in September? We said that in 2021 we were going to give six hundred thousand children, that is, throughout primary school, free meals. It's absolutely necessary today. It helps everyone. All their children and parents, middle mattresses. It costs only 170 million more. I'm waiting to see. You open infantry stations without health protocols for feeding and plan not to include from September voucher for children whose parents work in the public sector. We gave ECU 280 million last year. The 220 million from the state budget and 60 million from the ESRB. We put a hundred and seventy - five thousand children and tell you to give voucher to the children whose parents are in the public sector. It's 80 million for at least thirty thousand more children. Finally, you have not taken any measures to strengthen disability. In contrast to Article 10, your proposal for the examination by the CMEA of those who have first submitted an application for an allowance is unterritorial and gives the wrong data. It's not eight thousand LEADs announced by the government, but eighteen thousand. They've been waiting for ten months to get the allowance. Most of them have no income. We know that 75% of applications have been approved for the last two months, that everyone had to receive the benefit immediately, without examination by the CEPOL, since they have a full file with OPEKA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u460	Mrs. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u461	I'm done. Listen. The sum of sums unduly paid in this case would only be 1.8 million a month. For 1.8 million a month, you are suffering eighteen thousand disabled. At least correct this article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u462	Thank you very much for the time. Mr Zachariadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u463	Ladies and gentlemen, I begin with a report which does not relate to the matter we are debating today. She was murdered in the most brutal, arrogant and inhumane way, because she went to get food with expired coupons. He was yelling he couldn't breathe. He died helpless and weak. For George Floyd, for the poor, the weak, the devastated, the victims of wars, the refugees, the refugees of poverty, the immigrants, i.e., for the victims of racism, intolerance, intolerance, for all of them, we are here to fight for another world. For another world that is feasible, but above all it is necessary. For a world of more justice, more freedoms and rights, more solidarity, for a world that will not strangle the poor African American, but for a world that has strangled racism, fascism, intolerance, for a human society. And with this tragic opportunity, those who haven't done it, take some time to see the movie "Joker". Perhaps there is a food for thought, for the rigid societies in which we live. Political developments in Europe and the country are very interesting. Anyone who is a little more careful in reading details can easily see the cuff with which the government faces a number of issues. Finally we will be answered by Mr Stavros and Mr Mitsotakis to the question: “What happened? Did they suddenly grow money in Brussels?' Indeed, the day before yesterday we had a positive decision, possibly a cut in the face of pandemic in the economy. The European budget is increasing, the process of reconciling is beginning. Of course, there are also questions until the decision comes and, of course, about what is going to happen with the budget in 2021, in 2022 and in 2023. So now that it seems like a glimpse of hope in dealing with pandemic, is it time to leave the slogans and talk to economic, social, unemployment, inequality, recession, padlocks, middle class, see the margin of intervention so that we do not find ourselves in front of deadlocks? So is SYRIZA's program a Progressive Alliance popular or is it just folk? For many times right-wing people in Greece and in Europe are confusing populism with populism. That is, in my opinion, because it cannot read the social needs. They said top ministers "if we give money, you become three hundred pounds" or "We can't do anything about locks and unemployment. Unfortunately, we have capitalism." This elitism and the behavior of Maria Antoinette from New Democracy, that is to say, 'If the people don't have bread, let them eat panoramics', it is dangerous for economic and social cohesion. I would also like to give you a friendly advice: it will not do you any good at all, but not at all in your favourite polls. On Monday, we tabled a programme that responds to the needs of the large social majority. That misunderstood slogan with the many and elites, remember? So it seems here who's with the many and who's with the elites and not the slogans. We talked to the chambers, the trade unions, the middle-enterprises, and the citizens see in this program their anxiety and their way out. Now that Europe is giving more - and if the crisis is expanding, it is likely to give more - why is our programme inapplicable and wasteful? Where do you plan to give this liquidity? In an 'Age CVT' type, in strong interests, or should we look at the middle and the weak? This is the part of the economy and society. But there's a piece of health. The contribution was made to all of us, Mr Chrysosulalis, and not just to government decisions. If you want to remember and make references, remember and report back to Members of the Couple on those difficult days and Ministers on those difficult days, remember everything. But here, we have an important development that we have all put back on. Why cancel it, why zero it and why not not see what possibilities we have for better preparation if the epidemic comes back. But do you really tell me: have we exploited all this time so that we can really strengthen the National Health System at staff level? How many of these recruitments you announced are currently wearing the medicine, the nursery robe and serving? What is the cost and increase of health expenditure compared with other countries? How do you plan to set up the National Health System, so that the next day is more effective? It is quite clear that all this development of the pandemic bears up to the responsibilities of the Conservative Party, which had a completely different place on a number of issues. However, because the strengthening of the public health system is not within DNA, because we have faced this crisis and have all put back on it in a way not structural changes but because of the pressure of need, we have no confidence and want to press for the real strengthening of the National Health System, with resources, with infrastructure, with procedures. The difficulties in health and the economy may be ahead and there is a need for preparedness, planning and open dialogue. Unfortunately, you do not have an honest dialogue, just suffice the polls, suffice the communication fireworks, suffice the median power and pride you have at the moment. But, luckily or unfortunately, they cannot respond to the real problems of society and the economy and much sooner than you think our people will again look for progressive responses and solutions to the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u464	Thank you, Mr. Zachariadis for his time. The Minister for Health, Mr. Kikilias, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u465	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor at this late hour. I shall speak at the end of the day about what amendments we will be accepting and which are not. It is very interesting that seeing curves of other countries the coronary is still there. Even countries with a recession, I see that there is an increase in epidemiological curves. So I'd tell you all to slow down to the judgments of whether the pandemic is overtaken or not and what's left to do. I think that the headship of the Ministry of Health has set an example, trusting in a crucial and critical subject of scientific advice - because the decisions concern us - the experts and have been vindicated. I think this is the case with the country as a whole. It has been justified and I think that we have all seen with satisfaction after many years, after a long time that Greece has indeed become the focus of discussions and crises between the European countries and the countries of the world, but this time for good and not bad. I think that all Greeks needed this and it belongs to all Greeks. Let us see, however, who is basically placed on the issue of the coronary in relation to the health and economic and who are not. What does society say? How does he understand things? And how do some, fortunately, decide to place themselves on the subject? The dear friend and colleague, Mr Zachariadis, is right to say that there were many of the wings of Parliament that set back. That's true, Mr. Comrade. And there were few, who wished at the very first moment for the government to fail, for the National Health System to fail, and for hundreds of dead to be counted, and for them to rejoice in a tragic situation for the country, seeing our neighbour Italy in how hard it has been. But with caution - and my colleague spoke carefully - I came here in the midst of a pandemic and informed all parties in the committee responsible, Mr President, in the previous day's debate on the coronary. I was him, who was there, and every week I informed the Institutions of the Health Department of the SYRIZA, Mr. Blonde from the Anti-Civilism and all parties, whatever you ask. It was of no importance if we were at the heart of the crisis, the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Kontozamanis, was here to answer all your questions in the middle of a coronary, respecting Parliament, the process and the institutions. So, not only is what some premise, that some are socially sensitive to the many world and their needs and others are annoyed, that is another concept and mentality - the opposite is the case. Everything is judged by the result. The world horizontally and over and over parties passed the parties, recognizing this shocking effort of doctors, nurses, paramedics, scientists, bankers, cleaners, administrators, of all institutions of the Ministry of Health. Do you remember the former CDC? Remind me, the National Public Health Agency. We brought a bill on public health here, and I explained to you that it will be the arm of public health and that we want to believe in these children who have been hired at various times by different parties. We have shown confidence in young scientists, extremely competent. We didn't chase them. I have explained that the powers are divided: executive - legislative - judicial. What comes from the past should be investigated by justice. We gave the opportunity and the opportunity for this arm of public health to be a direct part of the intervention for the sake of the health of our fellow citizens, the Greeks, and did so. A huge burden has been borne: EKAB and EKAH. He did his mission well throughout this time, exercises with the reference hospitals, interconnecting with the U.S., before the coronary even arrives in the country. I want to remind you what some people were saying when we decided early to say that we should not have carnivals at the time - which we had not yet had a case - and the criticism we received from some people at that time. I guess they forgot that. And then, when horizontally we had to close the schools, with a very brave decision of the Prime Minister of the country. I am sure that other health ministers have also recommended to their Prime Ministers that they take measures, but that this has not been accepted, it has been declining. And how that choice was vindicated. I would remind you that at the time some people were raped and talked about testing and criticized us for not taking these tests at the initial stage. I imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that it was from a particular country of doubtful quality, which the World Health Organisation, the FDA, the CDC, has never recognised. And what happened to other countries that decided to follow this tactic. And how this practice has been justified for vulnerable groups, the elderly, those who do not have and cannot - because the National Health System is first of all for them - for immunosuppressants, cancer patients, those who have diabetes for the people who really needed our protection and we gave it to them. I repeat, political communication is a little important if there is no substance. And the substance confirms whether there is real care, prevention, organisation early - which we have had since the beginning of January - and serious measures. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that some of you, a few of you again - I must say, I have not had time for some of those who have spoken to Parliament today - have asked for the order of everything, of private clinics, of private laboratories, etc. Come and tell us how much this would cost for the Greek taxpayer and the Greek State. Unless you don't read the laws and you don't know that the order comes with compensation every day. Some of the private sector were asked to demand their clinics and others, in order to collect fatal sums and to pay for them. Mr Zachariadis said - he is my friend - about the costs of other countries in health. And very well we did and spent what we had to do. Think. There is an economic crisis and we have good administration in health, accountability for all and expenditure commensurate with the extent of the disease in the country. Not inextricably and not beyond and outside the light of the time. However, if the crisis had gone through with unreasonable health expenditure for this period and now we were to address the reasonable need for a horizontal transport to support, would you say that 'why did you throw the money?' On the contrary, what did we do? With great wisdom, care and accountability and private donations, with the committee that controls them, with the private company, the "DELOITTE", also helps, and reasoned about the Greek State's money, to stay in the National Health System, we have operated a thousand two hundred IDs in the midst of a crisis. Five hundred and sixty-five we have received and increased them to a thousand, seventeen in the midst of a crisis, in the middle of a coronary, and the European average will ultimately remain permanent in the country over these months. How forward we can be and be as far as the other European countries are concerned. This was not only done by the Government of New Democracy or by the Members of the New Democracy, who thank them very much for their support throughout the crisis. It really became intermodal. It was indeed the overwhelming majority of colleagues. And I honor them and I respect them for that. And, of course, Greek society, which, for the first time in many years, said "there is a state, indeed, that the state takes care and is here to support us, to help us". And this is progress for democracy and for the political parties, that for the very important - and I cannot think of anything more important than human life - we are all joining a joint effort. Some feel that the crisis is over, there's no question at all and "Come and get back in the fight now, come and meddle on the oats." Rather, they do not see what is happening in our surrounding countries, rather they do not see how the wrong approach to such a serious health issue has led to huge crises. Some people have been raped, as I understand it, to think that our problems have ended as far as health is concerned and we go to everything else. It's not like that. It's not like that at all. Obviously, there are a lot of questions about the next step and there is a great deal of effort to support the economy and tourism, but with priority in health rules, with a committee of infectious - epidemiologists to advise, give instructions, with all the ministries working early, noon, night to report back to the next step. I would therefore like to warmly ask that we try to overcome ourselves in contrast to some poor minorities, which have already started the "fake news" in social media. "Locked up" - says - "the cardiological clinic in "Pedon", which is the only CIVID hospital for children in southern Greece, that we want to leave all over southern Greece, while free of charge, everything goes to "Oneshion" and operate, if necessary, uninsured and insured, all children, all over the world. The Greek Government and the Ministry of Health have taken care of it. Some are not ashamed to move "fake news" in the middle of the night. It is annoying that the Greek society weights and considers in its overwhelming majority over parties that it is a privileged field of success for the government for health and union and solidarity and support for all Greeks and all parties and want to spoil this image. They send into the night like rats - if some move - "fake news" to show that something is wrong with the National Health System or that there is a problem. We will continue with transparency to inform the Greek people. I think it is unbelievable what happened in the middle of the night, because it has to do with young children in particular. Some go to distort reality to the detriment of the middle Greek family and a parent, a father or a mother who is anxious about his child. Ladies and gentlemen, I will accept the ministerial amendments, with a general number of 316 and a specialist of 52, 320 and a specialist of 55, 321 and a specialist of 56 and 327 and a specialist of 59 and not the MEPs. I will conclude with the hope that the important things that our country has to deal with - and there are many - is the value of human life. The NSA has proved to be able to withstand and endure. And I will repeat that these people are modern heroes: Doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, bankers, cleaners. We honor them, respect them, and prove it. Let us make an effort to keep these few isolated, moving within the limits of the Greek society and not accepting that for the first time the parties of Coupling and Anti-Population recognized the value of human life and supported it with all their powers. I, first, as Minister for Health, am ready to acknowledge the good mood of all colleagues. I wonder, though, if a few so quickly forget and think that if we managed to pass the first stage of this huge pandemic test successfully, it means that we must not have an absolute commitment to preparing for the second or the third and to address it with the most modern ones, with the best Greek scientists in all sectors horizontally, intensive, infectious, specialist pathologists who have been invited to consult on this very difficult public health crisis. It is by my own decision that advisers from the former health ministers and people from all sides - who are judged and weighed on their science and competence - are in the committees, consulted every day and on a common basis in their judgment - that advice to the Government and the Ministry of Health which we weigh very seriously and always take into account. Come and make an effort to overcome our evil self and evil past many times, as a political system, which made Greek society come out ahead of us and judge us and show us with the finger. Let us move on to something at least, denouncing without an asterisk, without 'but'. Indeed, Mr Colleague, we will leave a better health system. I assure you. In the next few months, you'll see it. As your resignation has also asked a timely question, we will have the opportunity in a few days to answer the House. One more amendment, Mr President. A general number of 329 and a special number of 61 shall be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u466	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Theophilus Xanthopoulou from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u467	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to make a point. There is a draft law above the hundred articles in a meeting and we are trying, through procedures that do not favour the peaceful development of arguments, to respond to our legislative work and to our parliamentary role. Of course, we have seen all those who have been here since this morning that basically in the process that began at noon, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, and the extra-parliamentary and parliamentary ministers and representatives of Parliament and, in fact, the Members' time is limited. I would like to thank the majority Members who have withdrawn so much that we can have a sensible time management and, at any rate, put forward our views. But responsibility remains. It is not possible to legislate, legislate of this range and of this dynamic to compress only at a meeting, and it is not possible to do so at the cost of practically the Members who were registered, prepared, prepared to speak and finally retreat and resigned from this top right to operate the procedure. Secondly, on the occasion of what we are discussing - there is also the Minister here - for us on the left there has become a colossal, cosmogenic change. The importance of a national, a public health system has been restored to the consciousness of all humanity. What in previous years has been an objective to which neoliberal doctrines have grasp, that it is ineffective, that it is costly, that it is a corruption factor, that it is not rewarding. Today it has become a common place that only a public health system can support a society in pandemic and change all the priorities. Therefore, the crises we are making, the criticisms we make and the criticisms we make are directed solely by this reason. It's time to rebuild the health system on its feet. It was a health system that SYRIZA received in 2015 in a complete collapse, was able to and stopped the collapse of this collapse, substantially rescheduled it, scheduled new beds in intensive care units, new recruitment of permanent doctors. Recruitment is now an undeniable need, a palliative requirement and cannot be deafened and invented by the government in recent days by PPP schemes or work contracts so that the National Health System becomes irreversible. We know the pandemic didn't pass. We know the coroner is threatening to come back. We don't have the right to be reassured. We are not entitled to sacrifice the country's future on the basis of neoliberal beliefs. So here is the crucial point, here is the confrontation of the programmes, here is the confrontation of the positions, and the Greek people are called upon to see and choose. Thirdly, there is a technical amendment to the Ministry of Justice - of course, there is no person who is going to receive it at the moment, to record it in the Minutes - that the regulation of suspension of limitations refers to procedural acts and not to that right, which is a matter of substantive law. I think that there should be a legal wording of such a kind that does not leave any kind of margin to be regarded as protecting only the procedural act and not the essential right to the limitation. Finally, the most emphatic way this very close relationship with the majority with the banking system and the bankers is actually confirmed today. I would remind you very quickly that until before the time the offences of infidelity were persecuted were automatically persecuted. By choice of the government, it was insulted. A regulation was created which said that those who have been called must have a decision of the board of directors which effectively legitimise them. There was a four-month period, all procedural proceedings were extended except for one. So who? The one with whom the board of directors could order consent to the exercise of the criminal prosecution. So she didn't give up. It was written before the Quartet was passed, it was left unavoidable that those who could have checked for what they had committed and the responsibility was entirely borne by the majority which also chose a camp with the bankers, with those who put hands on the public corban rather than with the citizens. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u468	Thank you for the time too. The floor has now been asked by the State Secretary, Mr Contozamanis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u469	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to clarify a few things that have been said during the debate in this House. Most members of the Opposition MPs and, in particular, the Opposition Officer, and Mr. Xanthopoulou at the end, have now been mentioned to support the public health system. I would like to stress once again that the government supports the public health system, believes in the public health system. However, the public health system to which the opposition refers has nothing to do with the state of dream and pursuit. Reports were made on where doctors and staff were employed during the coronary. In informing the Minister in the relevant Committee on Social Affairs, we have submitted per health region, hospital and unit which is currently employed by medical and other personnel. We were also accused at the beginning of the pandemic, that the National Health System needed staff and we were not hired. When we were all aware that we hired staff, then they told us that this staff was not permanent but subsidiary. Let me remind you that ancillary staff were the creation of the previous government, SYRIZA. In addition, some things were said by Mr. Polakis as regards the state of the National Health System and mainly in the hospitals of Karpathos, Santorini. I would like to say that the previous government handed over the Karpathos Hospital, without electromechanical equipment and without personnel, so that the health centre is transferred without the administrative receipt, which we in the next few days will normally operate at Karpathos Hospital. The opposition to the health system that has given us must therefore not be cut. Reported to the Santorini Hospital. I would remind you that before our own rule, instead of hiring the Santorini Hospital medical staff, he hired electricians and the artificial kidney unit were the machines and the doctor who served was in Athens. Also mentioned were the bases of aerospace in Syros and Aktio, which the previous government proud to have created. I would remind you that in Syro it is a military airplane station, which is great, it is Sinook and cannot land at night in the small islands. He has to go to islands where there is an airport. In the Aktio there is a helicopter of the Agkusta Air Force, which can't fly at night. So let them not be taken over for these bases that they have created, because they really need extra airplanes, so that these bases can function properly. Finally, I would like to say this: with this draft law and in particular with the amendment brought by the Ministry of Health, we are taking a big step. And we are very proud to take this legislative initiative on setting up, establishing nursing specialists and specialists. It is a pre-electional government commitment, which we are implementing. We would have done it much earlier before the coronary, but because of the particular circumstances of the coronary we bring it today. And why is it so important? Because both the public health system and the number of intensive treatment beds worldwide become the most important prerequisites for the battle against the coronary. And these nurses are going into the battle of intensive care units. The six hundred fifty-five positions are qualified in emergency and intensified nursing and the six hundred positions are qualified in nursing public health and community nursing. Such specialties exist in modern European states, in the modern world. They didn't exist in Greece. We are establishing it and moving on. Once again, the Government and the Ministry of Health demonstrate the importance they attach to supporting the National Health System and make an effort to strengthen it both in material resources and in modern equipment and human resources. Let me remind you that in this draft law we have also provided for the establishment of positions of doctors, nurses and specialists in order to serve the new intensive care units, which will be built in order to reach the European average. I would also remind you that we are the first government to vote for the first time in September, and we are now voting again, with this draft law, on the legalisation of excesses of additional newspapers, on newspapers worked by medical and other staff in the National Health System. In fact, we increased, because of the coronary, the limit of these additional newspapers from 9% to 15%. I think it is the best proof that we are doing everything possible to strengthen the human potential in both quantitative and qualitative terms in the National Health System. We are prepared to face any health threat. And I am sure that as we have done so far in the management of the pandemic, we will be doing better in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u470	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u471	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u472	You're welcome, Mr. Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u473	Mr President, there has been a legislative improvement that will keep us here until morning. Minister, a legislative improvement that has been made - I do not know if it is the 4 number above - which carries the amendments as articles in the bill will keep us here this morning. The amendments are voted on as amendments and not as articles. We would therefore ask you to take this piece of legislation back, to vote on the articles as we have them beforehand, and then on the amendments into the insect as they are underneath them. We'd be beg you a lot, 'cause we'll sit here by morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u474	Thank you. We will now continue with Mr Efstathios Konstantinides from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u475	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, at first glance the adoption of this draft law seems to be typical, since it mostly refers to the ratification of two acts of legislation, namely regulations which have already been implemented or are in the last stage of their implementation. It is not, however, because its provisions are aspects of a laborious and painful effort that has denounced the state and its officials in the consciousness of citizens and Greece internationally as a safe and organised country. Our health system has responded extremely well and, indeed, has been strengthened in human resources and equipment to mediate the crisis. Those who came into contact with residents of other countries were proud to hear the credit for our country in areas that we were not used to until today. I am sure we all realise that these achievements have an economic impact. There were many of the provisions contained in the MAGPs that we are voting on today, but also those that were ratified in the previous period, which brought these results. In the previous period, the Government has taken measures to protect economically weaker and affected households and businesses. And keep going. Day after day, it unfolds a strong social protection net, and activates sectoral programmes to target economic sectors. At the core of the design is the maintenance of jobs. For the market priority is to provide liquidity and to provide financial instruments to most, as far as possible, enterprises and, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises. The provisions of the bill provide for arrangements which prolong measures adopted in the previous period and extend them to meet new needs. It is truly impressive to have the scope of the sectoral arrangements and horizontal and vertical operations across the range of socio-economic life. It is difficult to find an area of activity for which there is no care. The fact is that, because of the complexity of economic activity, some malfunctions were inevitable. It must also be understood that under the circumstances of this unprecedented phenomenon, the State cannot cover any damage. The state's responsibility is to keep society and the economy standing, to limit the adverse effects and to create the conditions for faster recovery in orbit growth and progress. I believe, however, that in this period we have achieved even more than keeping the country up. In this time we won decades in the area of digital governance, we put electronic applications in our lives that improve our everyday lives, we managed to simplify procedures that wasted state resources and troubled citizens. Ultimately, not only did we not retreat, but we made progress in the functioning of the state. But this war isn't won yet. The pandemic is in recession, but until treatment is found, we cannot talk about full return to normality. And since we can't be safe on the sanitary side, we can't be for his financial impact. Significantly, Europe has understood the need for forward and dynamic economic stimulus measures and Greece, with increased prestige and credibility, has a decisive role in this process and seems to benefit strongly from the final design. We're still at the beginning, but no doubt on the right path. There is a lot left to do for the healing of wounds left by the pandemic. At national level I would like to record the need to further strengthen scientists, free professionals and especially accountants who have lifted heavy burdens in this process. As far as my country, Kosanis, is concerned, I would like to convey to you the need to support our farmers and farmers, since the crisis has exacerbated the already known difficulties in the primary sector. Initiatives have been taken. However, other actions that will strengthen the production process are also required. In the same area, it is important to support the export sector of fur rearing and fur production. On the occasion of the presence of the Minister of Health, I would like to note, Mr. Minister, the need for staffing, reinforcement with staff of the existing ICU beds of the "Mamatsio" Kozani Hospital, as well as the staffing of the Molecular Biology Laboratory of the same hospital. I do not hide from you that I was anxious about how long the transition of the country to the post-Koronian era will affect the transition of my country to the post-German era. It is true that the first concerned us to the extent that, possibly, the funds earmarked for the transition to the post-foetal age were at risk and threatened to secure the necessary resources. But I hope that it will not compete with each other, but will complement it and strengthen it. Apart from the measures, however, I would also like to refer to something else which I consider to be equally important. In this critical period, the long-standing relationship of citizens' confidence in the state has been recovered. With this chapter I believe that Greece can come out stronger than this adventure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u476	Thank you for the time too. Now Mr. Moraite has the floor from SYRIZA. Here comes Mr. Loading, Mr. Spirtzis, and we'll start with the special speakers for three minutes. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u477	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the Minister for Health in his speech, which he did a few minutes ago, talking about the role of Officer Opposition, the role of all parties and I think it was on your part, Minister, quite honestly. But I would like to point out and say that, unfortunately, it contradicts the government's narrative, with the account of the great majority of the Members of the New Democracy, who, at this difficult stage, which we have been through since the beginning of the health crisis, which we have all demonstrated, not just a serious one, but a responsibility towards the great enemy, want to prove other things. I would therefore add to what the Minister said that the country has remained standing in this difficult trial thanks to unity, patience, but especially the bravery of the Greeks. That is why, at this stage we are now closing this first cycle, we owe clean words, clean answers for the present, but also for the future. Instead of that, unfortunately, we have been seeing measures, decisions, legislations without any programming, without any consistency, so that we now reach a limit point in stepping up the anxiety about the future for both workers, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and the primary sector. Workers and businesses in the focus sector started five days ago and have a very tough reality in front of them. Their ties are low and, of course, they are lifting their backs and all that they have done with the closure of two and a half months and, of course, they are out of schedule for finance. We will see the small hotel units that will either fail this year or close definitively. We must see the seasonal workers who will survive next year with no or reduced income from the short tourist season. And I come to the small and medium-sized businessmen, this great category of business in our country, who expect all these things that they have been listening to for all this time in terms of liquidity injections, financial instruments and know far better than anyone that the vast majority of this category will not even pass outside the banks. And they expected clear solutions, they expected to hear specific things about direct payments, about VAT, about the new guarantee cycle, but, unfortunately, the government is giving back credits that do not reach the funds of their businesses, aids the suspension of employment, extends the unemployment benefit every two months. The figures are very hard and we were better presented by the bodies who came to the committee and said that in trade today 87% of firms had a reduction in turnover of 50%, 80% today of businesses are saying losses and 70% are facing a great deal of liquidity. We are going to the workers and the scientists who are on parole even today and do not know when and with what status they will return to it. They work from home without any guarantee of jobs, they have suffered new working hours, rotating work without any framework for safeguarding their rights. And you, gentlemen of the government, what are you doing? You are prolonging insecurity with the failed teletraining programmes, which, of course, you have also received the EUR 600 allowances. You leave the teleworking system unregulated and give the possibility of uncontrolled expansion of working hours without overtime being guaranteed. And I come to a critical area, which many colleagues and many members of the government last year gave a great foundation to the role that the primary sector plays in the crisis, but mainly afterwards. To date, therefore, our farmers, the fishermen, the fishermen, our beekeepers have been left at the mercy of God, have seen no aid, they see no government intervention beyond the great and fine words. The government could have a very difficult time for the agricultural world - and especially now that it is at its worst - because we are in time when they are out of business, they have ruined their money, the resources in fertilisers, supplies - to follow the path of three other countries that have already managed to negotiate for the immediate payment of the largest check rate of 20 subsidies, and three other countries are now discussing it and taking it. Citizens, ladies and gentlemen, are anxious and uncertain. They've got a big survival match in front of them. They need security, truth, solutions and actions at this time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I just need a minute. You, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, have caught a stasis on television windows and bomb people every night with your supposedly successful management. Evaporate with unique zeal in the sport of self admiration and present yourself as the only savior of the country. You have not even seen what other countries are doing on critical issues. I shall set an example. Spain introduced the minimum monthly income the other day. Germany and Italy increased it. Our proposal is to grant an emergency allowance to avoid violent poverty. I come and close with the decision of the European Commission, which, in fact, in difficult times is a brave decision, grants economic and social cohesion. He understood that the health crisis would hit the economy, but above all democracy and made these proposals under pressure and the peoples of Europe, but also an anti-European climate, which we recently saw in Europe and had to make at this critical juncture. What decisions? Support national health systems, job creation and encourage public investment. Here you found another chance to bless your beards. The Committee's proposals - you need to understand it well - are not a vote of confidence in the government. You should put this very well in your mind. It is a victory for the peoples of Europe, it is a victory for the Alliance of the South, it is something that we must see positive, so that we can lead the next period to other things that we must win.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u478	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u479	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, therefore, your indebted design, during the pandemic period, the opaque support of others, by express and provocative procedures, which you are, of course, washing off today, as well as the cleaning up of the bankers you are doing today with Article 46, is not a guarantee of what you will do next. What we are seeing - and here I am - is the omission of the small and medium-sized businessman, the small producer, the processor, who at this critical moment is fighting a very difficult battle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u480	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u481	We have tabled our proposal, we have tabled a comprehensive programme and what we have to say to the Greek people is that we will go the next time with the real productive forces of the country, with small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, highlighting a progressive path towards the conservative road and your own neoliberal obsessions. On the contrary, however, we will have, as some of us have historically had, post-practice capital and aeronautics in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u482	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Loading has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u483	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, through the government's reaction these months to pandemic and in this health crisis we have managed to change the country's image. So the Commission's reasoning for our country is that we should be given a much larger percentage of the resources for the Recovery Fund than for our participation in the European Union's GDP. From this proposal Greece is coming out of the most winning country. So today we are ratifying two legislative acts aimed at adopting measures taken through an unprecedented crisis, an unprecedented pandemic at two levels. The first direction clearly concerns health and health, above all, which, from the outset, seemed to have a very successful course. The second approach is to support the economy, which is a dynamic process. Responding to the effects of the entire pandemic makes it imperative to formulate public policies that meet the new requirements and respond convincingly to all the concerns and concerns of all citizens. So pandemic is more urgent, I would say, the need to strengthen the state and the public health sector. Of course, I would also like to congratulate the Ministry of Health and its leadership, as well as the government as a whole, on its choice to give telemedicine weight through the existing bill. For the effective development of quality health services throughout the territory through telemedicine can now be used, with the existing plan, in combination with specialist medical and nursing staff and technologies, which will increase the overall accessibility and reduction of natural health services costs for all, regardless of geographical location. Nevertheless, with the regulations of the existing bill and telemedicine, a modern and reliable system of primary health care can be established throughout the country, and I would say that it is an integrated system of care of low-cost care which, in accordance with the needs of both islands and islands, is necessary, especially of course for island regions, to deal with incidents involving prevention, diagnosis and even treatment, as well as monitoring of chronic diseases. I would like to focus above all on Article 19, which fulfils a just request concerning the Hospital of Thera and Santorini. Until first we were talking about a nursing establishment that had beds only typically, since there was no medical and nursing staff working on it. The problem was even greater in the summer season, as the island is flooded, as we all know, by hundreds of thousands of tourists. However, when the Hospital of Santorini was inaugurated, there were twenty - two doctors who were located in the health center, which was closed down. In 2019, three years after the opening, which took place in 2016 with bazaars and branches by the then Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, the hospital doctors were twenty-five, while, according to the then announcements, they should have been thirty-five. The thirteen beds of the pathological clinic are covered by just two medical pathologists and one resident. So, with today's regulations, what do we achieve? We succeed that the remuneration of the medical staff hired to meet the needs of the General Hospital of Thera is now similar to the remuneration of ERS doctors due to increased living costs in Santorini, which until now had a deterrent effect for young doctors and the removal of existing wage inequality. So, with the regulations in the current bill, it is resolved once and for all. Nevertheless, I would like to focus on something very important that I have heard from my fellow Members, in particular, of the Major Opposition, and I respect it, but because I have also heard Mr Moraite say some things and because all the conditions with which we live on another continent and another state, Minneapolis, are also topical. I would therefore like to dedicate to the ladies and gentlemen of the Grand Representation, a quote from Bobby Kennedy from his speech about the murder of Martin Luther King on 4 April 1968 in Indianapolis: 'What we need in this country...' - said at that time Bobby Kennedy - '...it's not division, it's not hatred, it's not violence and anarchy, but love and wisdom, the understanding of the other and a sense of justice for those who still suffer in our country'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u484	Please, Mr. Comrade, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u485	Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, the major opposition, the health of the people, is beyond all confrontation and the disposition of opposition, but also of personal interests. Only by uniting forces and acting syntheticly can Greek society meet all the challenges it faces. Greece, therefore, can win the lost territory much faster than many other countries, highlighting those comparative advantages that it is highlighting, those of our country's living potential that have been untapped for years. We're going on this road. From this crisis we come out louder. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u486	Thank you, Mr. Loading. Ladies and gentlemen, we are completing the list of speakers with Mr Christos Spirtzis from SYRIZA, and then we will begin the cycle of special speakers for three minutes each. Here, Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u487	Good morning! The regulations of the draft health law have been adequately discussed by many colleagues, both by our rapporteur and by the other SYRIZA colleagues. However, in the current draft law on the ratification of the two acts of legislation on the measures to tackle the pandemic, additional articles are inserted in the chapter 'Other provisions' on the amendment of very important legislation on public administration and local government. Unfortunately, Mr Minister, you will listen to them, although your position has been in a completely different climate than those of other members of the government. While international and European developments are rapid and shocking, the New Democracy continues its violin in critical ministries. While all of Europe, the respective neoliberal and conservative forces across Europe have revised the privatisation line, they have reviewed all these neoliberal dogmatisms of neoliberalism over the last thirty years that have reached Europe and our country in recession and in economic crisis, the New Democracy its violin, namely privatisations, party mechanisms that haunt public and direct awards. It is the only reason in this draft law that all these provisions enter into the Ministry of Health. After the coronary pandemic, we have the pandemic of direct assignments. Bring Mr. Chiodra back! Bring him back to face the pandemic of direct assignments! Is it possible to discuss in such a draft law the amendments to the 'CALL'? Is that possible? Not even the committee responsible? Is it possible to discuss changes in public procurement law in the Committee on Social Affairs? And I am really addressing the New Democracy colleagues. The media included is not a secondary device. It's a lot and very important. This is an insult to Parliament and democracy! Is that the ultimate state? Is that what you were telling us a few months ago when you passed the draft law on good law? Is that the best respect for the independent authorities, self-government, Parliament? We are therefore asking for these provisions to be withdrawn from the draft law of the Ministry of Health on the substance of the matter or from the draft law of ratification of the PPPs that have nothing to do with it, which we will prove below. We understand very well that you do not want to discuss issues like what you, by the way, put in order not to highlight your policies of depreciation of the municipalities, public services, to hide the government's agenda against Greek society and local government, to hide both the unconstitutionality of these provisions and their incompatibility with Community law, to hide privatizations in the public sector, but also the opacity and distortions. And you do so by means of a procedure which makes Parliament's procedures absolve and democracy itself in the same logic of opening the ballot a few days ago in order to correct the void bill. This is an arrogance that seals the behaviour of the government and does not help the country, ladies and gentlemen. And I'm going to tell you a few typical examples. In the regulations for the public administration referred to in Article 14 entitled ‘Personnel Regulations’ and in paragraphs 4 and 5, arrangements shall be made for the additional moleculosis of candidate heads, namely premiums with one and a half molecularities for each month in which the head of office is performed. Colleagues of the New Democracy, does this have anything to do with the coronary and the treatment of the health crisis with the MIPs? This year, you legislated on Law 4674 with which you changed the provisions, the way you chose, the molecules, and your parliamentary group defended this law with enthusiasm and courage. And you, in two months, come back. So, what did you do? Wrong on the computer and on the turf the party about the molecules of your virtues? I don't understand what you're doing. In the next article, again because of a coronary, the term of office of the service councils is to be termed "for God's sake"! - and institutionalize the final service councils to ensure that there is complete control, not to mention any of them. They all laugh at the ministries with the changes that are taking place. Everybody! However, it is not the Greek society that has frozen everything with what you have been doing for ten months. Let's go to local government. We've got S.H.I.E.L.D. You know what S.H.I.E.L.D. says. We don't have to repeat. He's off all the provisions for both the EOT and the rest. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In the next few days we will show through parliamentary control how the needs of the Greek people were used to deal with the pandemic by your members in local government. For example, in Attica, the "cook regional authority", to see at what prices some of the emergency legislation was used, which they really needed in some areas, at what prices they made supplies by direct delegation and with quality, with the health crisis and the needs of citizens. And we're really asking the Ministry of Interior and the Government how to control these direct assignments. Has he thought of anything? Unless you wish - I do not believe that the government has such an intention - to cover actions that damage the area of local government, because some of them are your officials, which is unfair to local government. I'm telling you that the articles of direct assignments are twenty, not to say them. Is it a matter of the coronary crisis the direct assignment of buses purchased by the Municipality of Thessaloniki, the maintenance of buses, the purchase of spare parts? What are you doing ten months? What do your executives do a year now in local government? And I'm going down. I'll say the most important ones. Article 9, programming contracts. You are canceling the audit of legality by the Court of Auditors. Crazy, insanity. And cancel it - which had been cancelled at 'CLITHEN' - for programming contracts between public bodies, to understand it. It's bureaucracy. Between individuals?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u488	Mr. Comrade, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u489	Mr. President, I'm sorry. I'm the last speaker, I understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u490	You're not the last one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u491	I'm the last of the MPs. I want your tolerance a little, because these provisions are critical...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u492	Everyone is parliamentarians, everything is critical.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u493	You know why it's critical...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u494	I'll give you a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u495	The Savvas Snowides who has served in local government is here. He understands better that these provisions shouldn't be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u496	Let's not vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u497	I'll be done in a minute. Thank you very much for your tolerance. So what's he doing in the next article? He's doing the ETA, the vector for every disease, not to say another thing now. Even ports will be made by the EBRD. And it provides a record from privately-supposedly. The government is already proud of this. This, ladies and gentlemen, is contrary to Article 103 of the Constitution. It is completely unconstitutional and anti-Community. And you go to Article 11-- we said it from the previous bill, there in development -- and what are you doing? You're doing something even worse. The five-member evaluation committee makes it seven-member. You're right, to be CEDEFOP and HICP representatives. Can it be four out of seven individuals in the Committee for the Evaluation of Local Government Programmes? Is it possible to say ad hoc about the technical competence of the EBRD in each project?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u498	Mr. Comrade, you've reached ten minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u499	You're right, Mr. President. I'm hanging up. There are too many issues for local government that are mentioned here. Unfortunately, it shouldn't have been. I'll close in two words. Governments in European democracies respect both parliamentary processes and institutions and opposition. In our country, the arrogance of the Mitsotakis government has led to normal procedures being an exception, especially to such "heavy" issues. I am happy to be an economist. When we make calculations, they are measured, they are very precise, unlike the Bank of Greece, Mr Stournaras who has not fallen into a number in the past decade, since he was in IOBE. The government is wondering, and especially its financial staff, why SYRIZA does not say any provision. It's not a government, SYRIZA. With so many technocrats in the government, I should like to give you a report from the 'Capital Economics'. I imagine you have internet. Technocrats say you have the government. With international houses so many technocrats you speak in Europe and worldwide. I'm giving you one of them, do a search on GOOGLE. 'Capital Economics' is not SYRIZA, I imagine. It speaks of a 15% recession for the Greek economy in 2020, over 200% of GDP, unemployment at 32% and over 50%...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u500	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u501	Let the government realize what's coming. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u502	........................................ The same provision has been made by Mr Varoufakis for 15% of the recession. Mrs. Apajidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u503	Thank you, Mr President. I would first like to reply to the report by the Minister for Finance on 'FRAPORT'. The Minister said attributes in his answer: "FRAFORT has paid the public, but has debts to TEAD, to which we are giving a six-month extension of payment". That's exactly why we talked about a photographic device. While the remaining undertakings of any sector are given a three-month suspension of debt payments, the ‘FRAPORT’ is suspended six-monthly. We therefore believe that the Minister's response confirms us. I would then like to refer to a number of other articles that we consider to be problematic. I would like to denounce the individual articles in Article 1, in which the legislative act is ratified by 13-4-2020: 'Measures to address the continuing consequences of the COVID pandemic -19 and other urgent provisions'. Our more general criticism lies in the fact that the measures proposed, and here they are unrealistic, unrealistic and inadequate. In particular, we consider Article 14 to be unacceptable, as private doctors' employment in public hospitals in order to deal with emergencies. The state must recruit doctors immediately. If and if the doctors are not enough, it would only be tolerated to cooperate with private doctors. It should be noted that Greece is strengthening with its doctors the health system of Germany, which is polluting their knowledge. Further, it opens another door to the privatisation of the ESS. It is a typical example of the policies pursued by the government, which will further devaluate the health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u504	Mr. Viliardos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u505	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would first refer to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, who said that we did not refer to all the articles during the plenary. We had four committees before. We have referred in detail to all the articles and even to proposals and analyses. You know that it is a hundred and fifty articles and today other fifty five articles have been amended. All the articles were made two hundred and five, and as you can see, this is not a proper procedure and we really regret that this is happening in Parliament. We hope at some point that this will end. Mr. Stagiras, when we asked him about the deferral of the German "FRAPORT" and, indeed, of payments due from 2019, said that the "FRAPORT" decision of the GOI and the GOI is not public. As far as we know, the U.S.S.A.A. is a member of the superstate. The Supreme Council was elected by all three parties together, by New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA on August 15, 2015, and the Minister confirmed that it really belonged to foreigners and indeed all belonging to the Supreme Council. The third is the reduction of rents. He said it was one of the government's measures. Obviously, the government cannot do politics with others' money. In a liberal economy, we live. Italy has done the same, and indeed it did not reduce the rents, but 60% and 60% were paid by the government, as should, of course. We have repeatedly asked - five, six, ten times - exactly how the budgetary measures taken by the government are. We have never received any answers and have only asked about budgets, guarantees or the rest. We have also repeatedly called for a situation to be submitted every month to know which real measures the government is taking and not just the statements. From what we have seen from the market, there are only statements. A lot of money has not been given. At least we should know exactly what's given. The next point concerns the much-discussed Marshall project - we in Greece have already called it the Marshall plan - Europe. First of all, this is a proposal from Europe. It came from Mrs Merkel's deal with Mr. McCrone. It is a proposal adopted by the President of the Commission, but under no circumstances is a decision. We all know that in order to make a decision, as it goes on, it should be voted on by 27 parliaments plus the European Parliament. So it's too early. We would all be happy to take all this money, like the rest of the countries, but in no case is this a given thing at the moment. What we believe is that Germany does not want to issue a Eurobond, which would really be a debt-compensation. He's trying to earn time so he can do the rest of the jobs he wants. All that we are discussing today will appear at the end of the year from the result. And we hope to be the result positive. But at the moment, based on everything we know, our economy is being driven to the cliff and it will be very bad if we do not understand it today. Our economy is not driven to the cliff because of the pandemic, which has actually helped to cover economic failures. What will show the true size of the problem and what frightens us all is the return to normality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u506	Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u507	Minister, we have come to the end of the debate on a multi-project plan with too many articles, as we have said. There has been a lot of discussion in the committees too. We have indicated that all this time the government took the opportunity to make profound overthrows and changes, restructurings, and industrial relations. We at least highlight these overturns. We call on workers to react, collide, claim a stable job, collective agreements, a stable daily working time. We cannot in 2020 have flexible forms, not everyone will know when it will work, when it will be at home with their family, when it will have free time and how to keep up with the business. It's not possible. That's a slave trade. This is a jungle, it's Armageddon. The collective agreements which have become compulsory by your government today cannot be overthrown and nothing from the institutional framework agreed between workers and employers, such as the collective agreement for hotels, which is no longer applicable, because workers are not re-entered, are not active. Mr. Brutsis came here and analyzed it. This morning we had a timely question with him again. He says forty thousand employees have no right to re-entry. Who are they? We asked him to tell us what the profile of these workers is. Are they the ones who blackmailed and terrorized employers did not make the application, as L.1346/1983 says, through their union, as collective labour contracts say through their unions? It's not just forty thousand. There are others. We are talking about a large majority, which will be unclaimed. That is why we demand that the government of those who were in the ADR last year, written in the 'ERGAN', have all the protection at the outset of the re-entry, suspension and even the support that has been decided. Minister, we tabled an amendment to the cleaners at the Ioannina Hospital, which was fired, eighteen. We believe that they have worked all this time and in pandemic conditions. They're needed, as they say from the hospital. We tabled an amendment dealing with the problem of hospital administration. Recruitment with new workers' contracts in order not to jeopardise public health. Cleanliness in hospitals has other requirements today. That's the request. Other forces are defending it. They have taken - if you want - your phone numbers and your Yannina people, from the New Democracy organization and they tell you that this must be done. We think you should accept this amendment, so that the administration of the university hospital can go ahead and make new contracts with these workers. Of course, the amendment on LARCO was not accepted. This is where everyone is judged. The workers see us, they hear us. As we have said, this bill will show it even more about what kind of overthrows it brings workers and will help to make the struggles manifest even more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u508	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Andreas Poulas has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u509	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I wish this piece of legislation that you brought us to the House today is the last one. With so many articles, with the two hundred articles that have come to the Greek Parliament, you show that you want to deceive the Greek Parliament, deceive the MPs and show arrogantness. Let me tell you that. I believe that you will take it seriously, so that we do not have such legislation again, with so many articles. I don't know if you were envied by SYRIZA, because he, in previous years, brought such legislation. I wanted more attention to the issue of the amendment you tabled, of 327, on nursing staff, which introduce specializations and specializations. We will vote on the amendment, but we have several objections to this amendment. The issues I'm going to put to you are specific. First of all, where will the funding be from? You don't describe that inside, you don't say it at all. Secondly, you say that they will only qualify for the diploma and leave to pursue the profession. What criteria will be taken into account in selecting these people? When they're trained, will they get molecules? They've only been hired for eighteen months? It's just a matter, because from what I understand you'll hire them for eighteen months, they'll do the specialty, the specialty, and then they'll leave. So every time you renew for eighteen months two thousand two hundred fifty places? This shows that you are looking to find cheap working hands to shut holes. But the other thing you're forgetting about is the ICP nurses. They don't have the right, if any of them want to, if they have the pre-service? Because the only qualification they have right now, apart from being secondary, is that they also have a pre-service, because most and most are ten, fifteen, twenty years in hospitals. Shouldn't you give them a chance if they want to upgrade? Shouldn't there be a provision for them? As far as the first and second MDGs are concerned, the National Public Contract Authority has made you very many observations. This is a prestigious prestige of opacity. You need to take this issue seriously too. And something about Mr. Villard of the Greek Solution. L.4389/2016 on the surplus was voted only for the SYRIZA - ANEL, so that we do not forget that. To finish, not to eat your time, I'll say you're opening the courts. Judiciary officials are now out and say that they must ensure their health insurance so that they can start working properly. On the other hand, lawyers are protesting with the decisions of the Ministry of Justice. Why? Who is the Ministry of Justice working with? These people, the lawyers, think the Minister doesn't listen to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u510	Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u511	Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'm glad the Minister is here. I'd like to remind you of a few things. I heard him talking to human beings and not standing up. I myself, like other colleagues in SYRIZA, to those who during the crisis from morning to night made suggestions - it doesn't mean you didn't know about it - how the MPAs become IMs, how many respirators we can do IMs, how many compressed airs, how many sections, etc. We made other suggestions. The children in the front line give incentives, even for this temporary post, to be able to claim a permanent post later. We told you then, I remember, not to weaken health centres. I believe - I am telling you, and speaking well - that many of these things you have heard. I mean, I saw there was a progress, and I was very pleased about that. I don't like misery, my Minister, and I don't belong in this charge. That's the story that went through. You trusted her. I'm one of those who never criticized the infectious. And especially you, because I really think you've been listening. I'm making an appeal. I think you have it in your mind too, because I can't hear anyone from the government saying it. The people who put their heads in the dorva with hunger wages are entitled to heavy and unhealthy. I'm talking about doctors, nurses, cleaners. Now write history. You guys write it down. You'll insist and I think they might. The juncture is positive. Some people know very well that they weren't hugging their children, their parents. They were isolated from their home because they were in the front line and they were playing their heads in the dorva. I have an appeal to make. I believe your ears are open to this appeal. The second thing I want to say is that emergency income is about the four million citizens. It's 3.5 billion. I will stop at this especially because it refers to uninsured people, to unemployed, precarious workers, unreservedly unreserved, unreserved, unreserved, unreserved, unreserved, unreserved, unreserved, unreserved, unreserved, unreserved, unreserved, unreserved, unreserved, unreserved, unreserved, unreserved, unrestrained, unreserved, unreserved, unreserved, unreserved, unreserved, intended, with blockage, seasonal, seasonal, farmers, farmers, AME, artists and free professionals. It is a pity and unfair thing for four months - which you will not do - that these people go to the margins, get into extreme poverty. Hold it. There are two calls I make to you because I think you're going to work on it. You have the way. Maybe you'll do it. But I stop here because else is my point today. That's why I asked the president for three minutes. Thank you. On 18-11-2019, Mr. 4637/2019 was adopted. It's a global exclusiveity and the first small bomb on the foundations of the banking system. I'm explaining. This has nothing to do with you, Minister. It's none of your business, but I want you to hear it. By Articles 6 and 12, the felonies of infidelity, money laundering, i.e., carried out by bank executives, have been converted from self-determination persecuted to escaping. This is not the case either in the United States, in France, or in Great Britain, or in Italy or anywhere. It happened in Greece and it is a first small bomb about how this government is thinking to a large extent about managing Greek citizens' deposits to banking institutions that have been financed more than three times from the Greek citizen's pocket. Now let's go further. It has to do with the legislative act and I think it should be heard. Inclined prosecution means the banker himself to denounce himself. If that's possible! A four-month extension was granted to this self-determination, which was received by some prosecutors and operated. In this four-month extension, the banks' administrations could submit declarations of wish to continue the ongoing procedures. Hold that. So he was resuscitated. And it makes sense to be suspended because there was a pandemic. No one protested why they were suspended.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u512	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u513	I've asked you for three minutes. Do me a favor. I asked you all from the beginning because I told you that it was very important to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u514	But it was three and you go six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u515	In that suspension, therefore, of the desire to continue prosecution against bank staff for frauds of infidelity, the time limit for the suspension had not yet expired. I mean, it expired at 18:00, and the parole took place a few days earlier. A wicked parole. It could continue to run this deadline as it happened with all the stories. This is a strange way, therefore, on 13-2020, the act of legislation which is currently under discussion. Now we're talking about this thing. Here's the second bomb. Listen to the wording. ‘It does not take over the deadline for declarations of wishing to make progress in criminal proceedings’. Crossword for very difficult solvers. This means by simply Greek that this retrospective lifting of the suspension of the deadline enables the offences of bankers that have been unlawfuld to be tampered with. We're not talking about 100,000 or 200,000, not even 1 or 2 million. We're talking about billions. That's why I want it to come out. It is strange, therefore, that there is a suspension for this category only. I don't want to go into details. I'm only telling you this. If a bank wanted to prosecute a banker who had outlawed, could he? I'd like an answer as to whether there's such an incident. I know there is, and all Greece knows about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u516	Mr. Comrade, please. You've reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u517	I'll be done, Mr. President. I'm on the last lines. So he can prosecute? No, it can't. And especially some bankers who don't want to exercise say "children, excuse me. The legislator. I can't do anything." We're talking about billions in the middle of a pandemic. It is tangible proof that the public in other respects gives an image of institutional corruption at top levels. It's good talk. We're applauding, we're doing it. The question is whether Article 46 has anything to do with this, because this is the first act of legislation on pandemic. I want someone to answer me and tell me if it's about a certain bank executive. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u518	Mr. Spiritual.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u519	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in today's debate many of the speakers spent their time in conflict or in demonsification, in a way, of the public-private partnership in public health. There is no one to question in our lives that the public health system will benefit from an improvement. However, there is no question that our health system has been able to cope with all its forces in this great crisis. There is no doubt that we must recognise that at the moment we are given a unique opportunity to improve it, to restructure it and to create the new ESS, as our Prime Minister recently said. What is the government's obligation to do for a public health system? Its constitutional obligation is to provide high-level public health services to all citizens without exception. To do this, what does it have to do? First of all, we must fully differentiate the concept of a state and a public health system. There's a lot of difference. We need to create an organised framework for public and private cooperation, to create a lasting restructuring of the health care system at all levels, and to be able to ensure that all our uninsured and uninsured citizens are treated in this public health system. How are we gonna do that? Obviously, we need to find some funding. In order to do this, we will certainly have to find some cooperation between the public and private sectors, make good donations to private individuals, and finally, create a model of public system, which will be self-financed. Continuing the debate we have had all day, with these provisions as they have been discussed, a number of measures have been introduced to address the exceptional needs created by the coronary, strengthening the public health system, as well as supporting businesses and workers in the face of the economic crisis that our country and the whole world are inevitably facing. I will only say that, from the position of all the representatives of all the parties, the differences we have with the opposition are evident as to how we are facing this crisis. As our Prime Minister clearly said, in the dilemma between strengthening work or subsidising unemployment, we choose to strengthen work, we choose people to keep their jobs, continue to produce and create, offer their families. We have supported businesses and we are therefore supporting workers. The policy of benefits and poverty chosen by the opposition is not our concern. We are moving quickly towards the activation of the plan, to overcome the consequences of the health crisis and to relaunch the economy. We strongly challenged the support that we have received from Europe, and we have done so, and we are all very pleased and happy with it. It is a question of using this important tool for the development and recovery of our country, with plan and wisdom. It's up to us to turn this crisis into an opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u520	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Health is adjourned. “Measures to address the ongoing consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic and other emergency provisions” (A'84) and (b) of 1.5.2020 BC. “Reader measures to address the ongoing consequences of the COVID -19 pandemic and the return to social and economic normality” (A '90) and other provisions”. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. You will be distributed on the list of articles and amendments as they were made before your last legislative improvement in order to facilitate, you will vote, you will sign the documents and the results will be recorded in the Minutes. The Office will incorporate the latest legislative improvements in the body of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u521	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Structuring: a) of 13.4.20 P.M. “A measure to address the continuing consequences of the COVID -19 pandemic and other emergency provisions” (A'84) and (b) of 1.5.2020 BC. “Read further measures to address the ongoing consequences of the COVID -19 Coronary Pandemic and the return to social and economic normality” (A '90) and other provisions”, was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, Articles and the whole of it and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u522	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u523	Therefore, the House granted the requested authorisation. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-29-S1-commons.u524	With the agreement of the House at 2.04 p.m. the sitting is closed for Monday, June 1, 2020, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
