ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 10-3-2020 authorisation, the minutes of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities of Tuesday, 10 March 2020, as regards the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Prevention, protection and promotion of health, development of public health services and other provisions’.]] Before entering the legislative agenda, let me first announce to the House the topical and urgent debate on Thursday, 12 March 2020 A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Georgios Psychogiou, Member of Parliament, Mr Korinthias, Vice-President of the Radical Left, Mr Georgios Psychogios, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "To a dead end the Corinthian farmers from the problems in the cultivation and cultivation of the county." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question by MP Larissa of the Change Movement Ms. Evangelias Lykoulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject : « Direct extension of the Programme "Aid for conversion into organic practices and methods in agriculture in 2017' '. 3. The Question No 583/10-3-2020 by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "Taking problems from the implementation of the emergency measures due to the new krone". 4. The question asked by MP B2' Western Athens, Maria Athanasios, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Protect measures to protect workers from the coronary". B. PERSONS OF second-cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 574/9-3-2020 of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr.Theodoras Jakris, to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "The course of the procedures for the construction of the new Judge in Edessa". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 587/10-3-2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Edition of a ministerial decision under Article 68 of Law 4635/19 on the recruitment of workers". 3. The Question No 584/10-320 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr Leonidas Stoltides to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "Continuance to grant housing assistance to uninsured ultra-aged expatriates from the former Soviet Socialist Republics (ESDPs)". 4. The question by number 571/6-3-2020 of the Greek Parliamentary of State, Mr. Vassiliourdou, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on "Revenge of damages for the Dieselgate scandal". 5. The Question by Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Loferous the image of the labour market in Magnesia". 6. The 588/10-3-2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Application of the rule of reasonable doubt to engineers - old insured persons who have full insurance to another institution, in addition to the Pension Fund for Public Works (CSME)'. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No. 3512/23-1-2020 asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Association of insured public and private sectors - family members who take care of people with severe disabilities in terms of pension conditions". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and vote on the principle of the articles and of the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: ‘Amendment of provisions of Law 2168/1993 (A'147) on issues relating to arms, ammunition, explosives, explosives and other provisions’, harmonisation of Greek legislation by Directive (EU) 2017/853 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending Council Directive 91/477/EEC on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons and the adoption of additional measures necessary for the implementation of European Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/2403’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 5 March 2020 to discuss the draft law in a single session, on the principle and articles. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Ioannis Melas, has the floor for 15 minutes. Please open the electronic record system. Up to the second introduction you will be able to register. If someone comes late, there's gonna be a little tolerance, as always. Here, Mr. Mela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a draft law which concerns the incorporation of European Directive 2017/853 of the European Parliament into our national law. This draft law also amends Law No 2168/1993 so that its provisions can be adapted to the spirit of the European directive and the field of safety internationally. In addition, additional measures are still necessary to implement the European Commission Implementing Regulation 2015/2403 on the deactivation of firearms. The incorporation of this European directive into our national law is necessary because we have been penalised by the European Commission because it has not been incorporated into our national law until now. Ladies and gentlemen, with the changes promoted by incorporating this directive into our national law, we are creating a strong, stable and rigorous institutional framework regarding the possession, use, circulation and trade in arms. These are changes which are considered necessary and necessary if we consider the instability and uncertainty that prevails in our time. Terrorist organisations in recent years have caused major hits around the world, leaving thousands of victims behind. These terrorist strikes are a tranquil demonstration of the multidimensional threat that the international community has to face. We therefore have to face a threat which is of a cross-border nature. That is why it is necessary to further develop cooperation between countries and to intensify the fight against the illicit trafficking of firearms and ammunition internationally. It is therefore precisely in this context that the specific draft law we are considering today is in line with the provisions of which our national law is in line with the rules for strengthening the system of data collection and exchange between Member States to establish common incentives for converting an alarm signal and for creating common standards for the marking and deactivation of firearms. We are also tightening the existing regime on arms legislation. It will now also be labelled on the essential components of the weapons. At the same time, strict rules and penalties are laid down to delete or falsify the marking of weapons. We are strengthening the system of data collection and exchange of information between Member States by creating a new system for monitoring transfers of firearms between Member States. At the same time, it should be noted that this draft law also provides for the transit procedure, which will now also involve the transfer by sea of weapons, explosives and ammunition, even when they pass through Greek territorial waters without resorting to a Greek port. The specific provision of the draft law is particularly important if we consider geopolitical developments in the wider Mediterranean region. At the same time, it is foreseen that arms dealers should be obliged to connect electronically with each other. This will essentially help to ensure that all their sales appear in a system linked to the Hellenic Police. There are also issues governing the regime for the control of arms, the marketing, import and possession of arms, cases and conditions which are not provided for in criminal liability of the holders of arms without the permission, for the confiscation of firearms and essential components by the competent authorities, for the transport of arms and other related articles for exhibition purposes. In essence, the provisions of this draft law upgrade the tools of the prosecution authorities, both for the investigation and detection of illegal activities in relation to firearms and to facilitate the administration of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law introduces a set of regulations which affects and concerns society as a whole. The provisions of this draft law also affect the personnel of the Security Bodies and the professionals active in the field of arms, as well as the individuals carrying weapons, such as hunters or shooters. These regulations, therefore, aim at citizens' safety, dealing with crimes of violence and organised crime, as well as terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law comes to be ratified at a very critical time for our country at a time when Turkey is challenging our national and sovereign interests at a time when the security and integrity of our country are threatening at a time when Turkey, using immigrants, young children, is threatening Greece and the European Union. It does not hesitate, in fact, even to apply para-state methods to illegally cross thousands of immigrants on our borders to serve its own geopolitical, economic and political purposes. Every day we become witnesses of propaganda and we disperse take news from the Turkish side. Turkey seeks to present itself as a victim, and it is, in fact, the perpetrator of this situation. That is why we must not be taken away from Turkish propaganda. No one should, in any position of the national Parliament and be in, adopt and reproduce this propaganda. It must therefore be made clear and clear that it is Turkey that does not respect international law, it is Turkey that does not implement the joint declaration with the European Union of 2016 on immigration. So we do not accept suggestions from the Turkish side to respect international law and human rights. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days in Evros and in our islands we have not been faced with an immigration or refugee problem, but a national problem, while the pressure we have received on our lands and on our sea borders poses a threat to the integrity of the Greeks. It must therefore be understood by everyone - within and outside borders - that we are facing an asymmetrical threat, a new form of war in which Turkey uses tortured people, but also various criminals, as weapons and bullets. Turkey with an organised and targeted plan is trying to destabilise our country and the Southeast Mediterranean region. So the plan is part of the illegal Turkish pact. However, our Armed Forces, Security Bodies and Crystals respond to the sacred task of protecting our national and sovereign rights. They preserve the security of our country, demonstrating high readiness, cooling and restraint against Turkish provocation. Our government's message to both Turkey and the international community has been clear from the first moment of the crisis: neither are we blackmailing nor threatening. We did not challenge Turkey and we must all know that in every provocative move they will receive a strong response. Both our land and our sea borders are guarded and no one will pass illegally. That's not a step backwards. But we are not only protecting our national borders. We are also protecting the European borders. That is why the European Union must now stand alongside us in practice. Several steps have already been taken and substantial steps have been taken thanks to the initiatives of our Prime Minister Mrs Mitsotakis and the Government of New Democracy. The vast majority of European states have condemned Turkey's behaviour. Already, powers of FRONTEX and states such as Cyprus, Austria, Poland are coming to help safeguard our national borders, which are European borders at the same time. However, other practical measures are needed against Turkey's behaviour. Ladies and gentlemen, at this historic turning point all the political forces must show maturity and responsibility. At these critical national moments we will be called upon to make difficult and important decisions, which should ensure our national and sovereign interests, ensure the integrity and security of our country and of our citizens, will judge the future of the next generations and this place. That's why it's necessary to stay away from every bizarre logic. National unity and national understanding are needed. We can - and we must - disagree. This is also the basis of the functioning of our democratic culture, but in these circumstances any ideological and party differences and disagreements must be made to the margin. Our supreme good at the moment is defending our national interests and our priority is the security and unity of our nation. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this: for us, the great liberal patriotic party, the security of our citizens is an absolute priority and an unequivocal obligation for our state. We have proved this through actions from the first days of our administration with the initiatives that we have taken and continue to take to strengthen the sense of security for citizens. We prove it every day in the neighborhoods. We proved it to Evros now. It is therefore our basic principle of the orderly functioning of democracy and the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President, for keeping time, since you are all saying that you want to end this faster today because of the coronary. Mr Dionysios Kalamatianos, a special speaker from SYRIZA, has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u5	Thank you. Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to address the issue of the timeliness for the spread of the coronary in our country and especially in my country, Elias, which is facing a particular problem. Since the first moment of the outbreak of the virus, we have exercised a responsible and serious opposition. We did not exercise demagogic and populist criticism, as the New Democracy did in a similar case in terms of health - and not just - in the past. Clearly, especially in Elias, it was not possible to limit the spread of cases and transmission. It is necessary to explore the circumstances which have led to this result. Since the present cases of infection are increasing at an accelerated pace, the government must immediately step up the strengthening of nursing units with medical, nursing staff and EKAB crew to meet the growing requirements. Especially, the immediate movement of pathologists is imperative. It is necessary to support it by logistical means of protection. The University General Hospital of Patras, which is also the reference hospital for all of Western Greece, is necessary to strengthen it with the necessary staff. It is particularly critical to strengthen intensive care units, both with staff and with material. Furthermore, it needs to be understood that there are not only businesses that have been closed for ten days with a state mandate, but also shops, hotels, agencies and all the businesses involved in tourism, that is, hotels, restaurants, entertainment centres, their suppliers and others. There are also particular problems for businesses trading in agricultural products both internally and abroad. We have not heard any measures for the workers. Workers need special protection. It is important to resolve matters relating to wages, wage leave, working hours, the place of provision of services, and especially what will happen with those workers who would now start work on seasonal jobs, such as tourism that they do not know if they will start and what will happen. Also, our farmers and farmers, the producers in general, are in a very bad state. We also had the suspension of the operation of the people's markets in Elias, which created particular issues, both to producers and consumers. There are also issues with borrowers. Those who have received housing, business loans or loans from previous natural disasters, such as firefighting loans, are unable to pay their instalments. The place has been led to an economic turbulence that should be dealt with. It is therefore necessary to take immediate health and financial support measures to help protect citizens, strengthen the public health system, effectively address the negative effects of the spread of the virus. We must therefore strengthen public health by means of protection and treatment instruments. I wish good recovery to the patients, and I also hope that we will show the social responsibility and sensitivity that is necessary and to protect our neighbour, protect our vulnerable groups, our vulnerable fellowman. Now, with the draft legislation under discussion, we are adopting a stricter legislative framework governing arms possession and armour. SYRIZA's permanent position is to control the trafficking, use and possession of weapons. The security of society as a whole is not guaranteed by the generalisation of the arms industry, but by its drastic restriction. As Bernie Sanders recently said, "it is not necessarily correct that building more weapons, tanks, missiles, is the only way to live safe. We will be even safer when people around the world know each other and realize that what unites them is their humanism." The majority of the draft law under discussion was in consultation in November 2018 on governance SYRIZA. We expect you to inform us, Minister, what points have been taken into account from the appropriate comments made by the committees during the procedure. The use of firearms by organised crime, terrorist groups motivated by religious fundamentalism or nationalist extremism, but also individual ones, is causing enormous negative effects on society. It is also one of the main problems that threaten the integrity of the states and, in general, our own democracy. I must point out that in recent days, unfortunately, we have seen images of gunmen, self-invited protectors in Evros, self-invited protectors of our borders, who have potentially endangered citizens, police officers, soldiers, refugees and immigrants. I believe that you too are underestimating our army and our police by accepting the existence and functioning of such groups. The police and the military have adequacy, they don't need gunmen to protect our borders. These are alpine images, they create bad impressions and I think we all agree that we do not need it and that there should be no such phenomena. In addition, there are several cases of dangerous use of a gun by police officers, sometimes off duty, such as the incident with the launching of a gun by the special guard at a Ghazi amusement centre, the incident of the police officer of the DIA group who threatened with a gun within ASE, the incident where a police officer shot the trunk of a car that crashed him - recently happened - and the accidental injury of a cop's friend when he fired his gun. Such incidents need to be limited. In particular, those who have been asked to serve the safety and security of citizens have responsibilities. The state must first of all train them as well as possible, but also themselves to distinguish themselves from their restraint and temper. In particular, we reiterate that it is in the right direction to incorporate the observations and amendments proposed by the Greek Objective Federation. The shooting sport is evolving over time. Any sporting activity must be unavoidable and facilitated by the law. The conduct of sports, of course, requires that Greek athletes do not create equipment disadvantages and that their international competitiveness be undermined. We also reiterate that the issue of thorn athletes should be regulated, so that in these cases and exceptionally that patents can be issued. The enthusiasm's weapons are sniper, sports and belong either to the federation or to the sports clubs, while arms licenses are issued and are individual. Such a regulation will solve many problems, particularly the high cost of storage for our athletes. We also share the proposal from the Psychiatric Society that a process of simulation of use and education should be used similar to that of driving cars. The use of firearms for either self-destructive or hetero-destructive behaviour can be prevented by adequate and continuous training and by the frequent control of the mental health of the bearer. Of course, there should be a gradual path of education, renewal, updating education and monitoring of mental health. It is absolutely clear that users are the ones making a weapon dangerous or harmless. In the articles on sanctions, we recommend that both financial penalties and imprisonment should be tightened up. Minister, when you're ready, we'd like you to tell us what changes were made here. In addition, we repeat that Article 10 should clearly clarify what paragraph applies to the impulse of hunting cartridges. Is paragraph 3 applicable to the fence of hunting cartridges or paragraph 3(b) applied, which was added in a later period with Law 3944/2011, referring to ammunition only? If paragraph 3 is to be added to make it clear, in paragraph 3(b), the words ‘other than the fist of hunting cartridges’ shall be inserted. If paragraph 3(b) applies, for it also to be clear, the words ‘including the fist of hunting cartridges’ should be added. It is also necessary to take care for those without knowledge or treacherousness who applied paragraph 3 and not paragraph 3(b) in a transitional period to settle the matter. We believe that the use of modern technologies should be strengthened in order to establish archiving and database systems, which will be constantly modernised, so that there can be as full control of the arms that are being moved and their holders. Finally, we repeat that the transitional provisions should provide for the collection of statistical data, which will enable us to see the results of the legislation that we are doing and to proceed to corrective action if necessary. We note that the law on the possession must be codified so that no one can access it. When a text is encoded, we are dealing with the issues of having 'loopholes' and overcoming the law. In conclusion, there is a positive strong link between the homicide-related victimisation index and the proportion of gunholders. The phenomenon of arms possession and the use of weapons as a freedom granted to the citizen in order to protect himself is a factor that unfortunately increases its potential insanity and insecureness. In addition, studies have shown that it leads to forensicity. The existence of a strict legislative framework is the only way to reduce gun killings, as it seems that the weapons finally create violence or rather easy access to weapons gives rise to violence. I'm going to close my speech with the reference to the words of the mother of the eleven-year-old Marios. You remember that incident in the Mind where a kid was killed by stray shots. So the mother said: "For the loss of my child it was two, the one who was shooting and the state that allowed him to shoot." We have a duty, therefore, as legislators to shield the institutions, to protect the citizens effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr Colleague, and, above all, for the time. The reason is now the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. George Kaminas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing two issues: firstly, the amendment of the Basic Arms Act, Law No 2168/1993 and, secondly, the harmonization of national legislation into Community law. The purpose of Directive 2017/853, which we incorporate, is to combat organised crime and international terrorism. However, the philosophy of the discussions held in the committee was quite different, of course, from the context in which we are debating this bill today. They have dealt with the committee with incidents of pointless, dangerous and unreasonable use of service weapons by police and special guards of the Greek Police. It was also, as was natural and last rapid developments in the refugee - immigration, as was shaped by the cynical choice of Turkish President Erdogan to break unilaterally - substantially now - the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey, causing a crisis situation at our northern borders in Evros. What is going to happen with the refugee - immigration is not the subject of today's debate, nor, of course, will we today discuss the recurring government in its management in the past few months, nor will we discuss any amendments that reduce benefits guaranteed in international conventions or amendments reproducing client morals and extending the status of derogating from legislation, a practice which the previous government has implemented but which you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, continue with him and even greater zeal. But allow me also to refer to another aspect of the refugee - immigration - related to today's debate. I just asked the Minister for Civil Protection a timely question yesterday about the activities of the para-state groups in Evros. They are approaching the articles, Minister, which speak of de facto militias, which aspire to substitute the official state, by carrying out patrols in the Evros region, essentially playing the sheriffs. The last thing we need at the moment is beyond the rhetoric of hatred, fear and racism, which undoubtedly cultivate some members of the parliamentary majority, to arm the hand of individual people to take the law in their hands. As the Greek Constitution does not guarantee under any circumstances the right to the possession of weapons, so of course there is no basis and no right to self-right, no matter how indignation and anger there is because of Turkey's behaviour. I appeal to the government to seriously monitor complaints that are growing day after day. Already too many humanitarian organisations are calling for legality and humanity to be protected. We must not forget - and above all the government - that we are committed by international law, which is now our basic weapon to Turkish reform. On the question of training for the use of weapons at the hearing of the bodies in our committee on 26 February, the Hellenic Psychiatric Society, through its Vice-President, tabled a radical proposal, which should take us seriously. Weapons permits for the company to be issued after a compulsory training period, which will be completed by granting a certificate, just as is the case with the driving licence. It is a failure of the state, Minister, for so many years, to have not trained citizens in the use of weapons, which reminds us that it is strictly foreseen only in cases of legal defence, shooting and hunting. Imagine how much things would change if the one carrying the gun had passed through a previous trial training. It is imperative that we discuss this issue seriously prior to the granting of a licence, in which, of course, it will not only be private, but also the first-stage servants in the Security Body, for which I will be coming back immediately below. If the state properly disciplined citizens in the possession and use of weapons, we might also have had a limitation on the unspeakable Sailings and Ruceto wars held every year in Easter days in various regions of Greece. I say it on the grounds of knowledge. I'm from the Borod of Chios. Every year we witness injuries and tragic deaths, Minister. But that's not all. The memories of Kalamata, Mind, Thebe are fresh. I testify to the Minutes and the recent condemnation against the Greek public decision 1465/2020 of the Administrative Court of Athens, which concerns treatment for mental suffering, which the Salukos family had submitted for the death of young Marios - Dimitrios Saloukos, a student in the fifth grade of elementary school. He died from a sphere of strangers on June 8, 2017 during a school event at the 6th Acharnon Municipal School. From autopsy, it turns out that death came from a weapon bolt that caused bone damage to the brain. [[At this point, the honourable Member, George Kaminis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned decision which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To date, Minister, the perpetrators of this heinous crime against a small child remain inconceivable, as is the lack of protection and order measures on the part of the Greek Police. It's something that man's mind fails to conceive. It is an obligation that the state has it under its existing legislation, how much more so that in the region there is a rise in crime, the illegal possession, the phenomenon of pointless shooting, and all of this has been brought to the attention of the police by associations of residents, from schools in the region, from individual citizens. A reading of the reasoning of the decision I have put forward is enough to convince you of the truth. In this direction, Mr Minister, I would like to see seriously the further increase in the penalties provided for in Article 12 of Law 2168 concerning unnecessary shooting and unnecessary use of ammunition. Since, in general, the spirit of the bill is to control and tighten up, I believe that we have nothing to lose - at all events - from the increase in the penalties provided for in Article 12. I'm coming back to the Security Corps. I also had the opportunity to report to the committee the latest cases of pointless and unsolved use of a weapon by police officers and special guards of the Greek Police at the University of Athens, or Holargos outside the home of the former State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr Papakostas, and in other cases. No one can be satisfied with the above incidents and especially the policemen themselves, whom I have had the opportunity to hear before days at the Greek conference of their federation. The police themselves want the image that's come out to change. However, in order to achieve this - and this is what they themselves claim and are right - more and more systematic education is needed on the part of the state. At this point, let me talk about the training scheme for police officers. Training in the use of weapons is regulated by Law 3169. Police training is divided into two categories: basic education and conservative training. The main course is held during the course of the school of officers and police officers and the preservative after graduation and until they leave the body at periodic intervals which are not longer than one year apart. However, the interest is that, in accordance with paragraph 4 of Article 5 of Law 3169, the ministerial decision regulating time, the manner, the service of carrying out conservative education and the criteria necessary to certify the police officers' ability to handle specific weapons is not published in the Official Journal of the Government. I have had the opportunity to raise this issue of the incomprehensible secrecy of the Ministry of Civil Protection no longer to publish management regulations. I have tabled a question, and I have come back because I have not received a satisfactory answer to what criteria are the distribution of police officers and the whole system governing security persons. I asked for numbers. I have received from the Ministry a piece of legislation which, if you look at it, does not concern security matters but concerns national defence and a processing practice of the Council of State in January 1981, that is, forty years ago. Then, as I stress in my question, it was still fresh in the experience of the april dictatorship, its natural tendency, its authoritarian turn to bring it all into a broad sense of national security. If this trend had emerged from an inertia up to the early 1980s, it is not allowed to perpetuate today. I shall return, Minister, to the essence of our proposal on education. Trial training for each individual and including the military training stage of the Greek police officers. I'm going through individual issues. I will also raise a few proposals that we have heard from the institutions and are worthwhile. First of all, the proposal of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Officials, External Guards, that external guards should be included in the definition of law enforcement authorities, as is the case with police and porters. The Greek Psychiatric Society's proposal for the education that I mentioned earlier. The proposal of the Greek Hunting Confederation to have a closer connection between the hunting weapon and the status of its holder as a hunter or a shooter. The confederacy has also tabled a detailed memorandum. The proposal of the Pan-Hellenic Police Officers' Federation, adopted by the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Retired Security Bodies. They say in Article 5 of the draft law that at a certain time, for example, within a year, collecting arms holders should submit to the competent authorities the supporting documents required for obtaining a possession permit. The individual proposals for a technical nature with regard to Articles 1 and 4 of the bill submitted in a memorandum from the Greek Sniper Federation. The Change Movement puts forward the following proposals for it: As I said, the increase in sentences provided for in Article 12 of Law 2168 on unnecessary shooting and unnecessary use of ammunition. With regard to the criminal liability of the holder of a weapon for hunting, to be added here, as in the case of collecting weapons, a reasonable time to surrender the occupied weapon and its possession as a condition for exemption from criminal liability. To take account of Article 11 of Law 3944 on the codification of arms legislation, which is, in general speaking, multitude. I conclude with the wish that we should not mourn a victim again, as happened with the little kid at Acharnon High School. This requires a strict application of the legislation on individuals and bodies of the Security Councils, as well as education, education and training. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Kamine. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Papanastassis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u9	Thank you. I think we all agree - and this has been reflected by most of these so far - on the need for very specific steps to be taken in the area of control of the acquisition and possession of weapons, the restriction of illicit trade, arms trafficking and the need to codify arms legislation. We consider it important to demonstrate the real aim of the draft law under discussion and what is the content of the proposed changes and the missing at first glance, even though we welcome the fact that the directive under discussion is generally in the right direction. First of all, we must make it clear that the right to the possession of a weapon must not only limit it completely, but above all this restriction must also be subject to strict controls as to whether it is actually respected. The fact is that the phenomenon of crime, organised crime, illicit possession and arms trafficking in recent years has increased. A first point, therefore, is that of the assessment of the existing legislative framework, which is to what extent the existing N 2168/1993 has so far yielded. We think it didn't work. We have many reasons to worry about the legal interaction of dealing with crime with the intention of hitting the people's movement, the struggle for workers, because not only the present but also the previous governments consider crime to be a birth of poverty but also a birth of the people's movement. In fact, modern criminologists identify it as a small traditional crime. Here comes the question: If poverty is responsible for crime, who is giving rise to illegal arms trade? Are the poor and the unemployed involved in this? Is it the immigrants' fault? Why is the interaction of crime with immigrants being projected? There is trafficking in children, there is drug trafficking, there are companies that have expensive executioners' services, there is the espionage of multinationals who are interconnected with organised crime and executioners. In other words, we don't have just a common crime. We also have organised crime, for which governments and the European Union are not doing anything. Do you know why? Because if they deal with it, they will get into the safes of the businessmen, they will take off their laundry in the forum. They want that? Of course not. So to say things with their name, the rot of the system cannot be connected with organised crime, as we say. Measures which lead to the militarisation of internal security, the abolition of the distinction between internal and external security, the matching of security with various forms of struggle using the popular movement, which the government itself uses to hit the popular movement. This direction of militarisation of internal security is a direction for both the European Union and NATO. So we cannot pretend that this framework is inexistent and when you go to discuss specific measures, many of them are included in the directive that we are discussing. Then the government's answer is: 'But they apply in all the countries of Europe'. Of course they are. In other countries they have long been implemented. But the direction is clear and it is an absolute militarisation of internal security. The most criminal acts committed by this crime, by heavy, organized crime, are not done either by hunting or by sporting weapons but by war weapons, with machine guns, sub-pilots, guns and revolvers, which are circulated uncontrolled by the various circuits. I do not think that any businessman needs to get into the process of converting greetings and percussions and deactivated firearms or weapons for film shooting and theatrical performances for such uses. In our view, too, there are many problematic provisions in the draft law and they show the hypocrisy that exists in several cases. In other words, when we cannot deal with the causes and factors that reproduce organised crime and serious crime, we are demonising everything. Are there any measures that move towards defending the interests of the people? Of course not. So the important thing in this bill is not what is included in its articles but what is not included. In particular, there is no need to introduce any restriction on the possession and use of weapons by the men of the Security Councils at any point in the bill, i.e. it is not specified where and when their service is outside service, if they are obliged to insure them in clearly defined areas of service, etc. These are ambiguities that we all know have led to a number of tragic incidents several times. Secondly, no effective control is foreseen for the growing trend towards a caste of private weapons, particularly for personal security companies. In particular, after Law 3707/2008 the possibility of armed and armed possession of workers in these companies has been widened, pretext for increasing crime and other similar grounds. Thirdly, despite the fact that the law refers to their weapons and parts, trade, possession and use, at no point refers to the huge issue of training on them, namely how athletes and hunters, for example, become familiar with their use, how and by whom they are trained in security issues. The total lack of such planning creates an extremely dangerous environment for both the users of the weapons and the surroundings of the space used. It is clear here that there are contradictions and questions about the feasibility of the provisions of the law. Fourthly, any attempt to curtail the use of arms - and we welcome this - is, inversely, the projection by the media, particularly by the television and the Internet of electronic toys - weapons intended for children of five and six years old, familiarizing them with the results of their use. The expected profits are huge and capitalism, this barbaric and inhuman system, in order to win, does not hesitate to poison even children's minds. There are even contracts for the cooperation of war industries with electronic toy companies. For example, the known and non-exclusive ‘LOCKHEED MARTIN’ collaborates with the ‘SEGA’. Children are addicted to playing with devices similar to arms simulators, killing Arab terrorists, dictators, and what can be imagined. Furthermore, since the familiarization of children with war weapons, these toys also have a clear and covert mission, which is related to the ideological orientation of these children in what civil order considers an enemy of their interests. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not say that this draft law can regulate everything, namely regulate all of these issues. However, we are all aware that dealing with snipers or sports guns, when the factors and causes that produce and reproduce illegal or legal, but dangerous weapons and weapons are acidified, is something that, in our view, builds the hypocritical nature of the bill. We therefore believe that, because the provisions of the bill deal mainly with legally in circulation weapons, but also minor issues, a few things will change about the existing regime of illegal, black and smuggling arms used in serious crime. Therefore, on the part of the Communist Party of Greece, we have already said that we are voting'residents' at the start of the bill and as regards our position on its articles, this is the following: for Articles 6 and 11 we vote 'in favour' for Articles 1, 4, 7 and 10 we vote 'in favour' for Articles 2, 3, 5, 8, 9, 12, 14, 16, 18, 19, 20, 22 and 23 we vote 'in favour'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u10	I am also grateful to Mr Papapastasis and to him for keeping time. The special speaker from the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Hetas is now called in Stepa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, thank you very much. Everything in life, ladies and gentlemen, is a matter of psychology. You'll allow me, before I enter the bill, to make a little report. We've been in stage two. You see our country has now been psychologically affected by what lives. Men count too much psychology. We now see empty streets, empty rooms, people not to be released out too much, a little starts what fear is saying. I would also like to express my sympathy to all those who have been tested in the last few days and wish for a rapid recovery. To introduce to everyone, and I, of course, cool, because that's what we need above all and listen to experts. People know something. Five tips that give us to keep them and not lose our temper and our psychology. This is very important. If he takes us down - and because the Greek relies too much on his psychology - we will have problems. We are generally going through a period of time, ladies and gentlemen, where national consensus is needed at all levels and at what we have found with the coronary, but also at the level of the hybrid war, which we have recently with Turkey. But when we say national confession, what do we mean? When we talk about the coronary, especially the ones we are at the National Representation and people listen to us, we should be very careful of what we say. We are addressing the Greeks who need support right now. We cannot divide the Greeks into accusations and say - as some unacceptable expressions were said yesterday by Paul Paul Paulakis from SYRIZA - that he came from the rich and from the Christians. Whatever he said - let him say from the poor and the poor - I don't care. You cannot tell people or exploit ideologically and micro-groups as serious as health issues, of which the whole world is panicked, to make the good of your voters, left-wing voters, atheists, or whoever you have, or where you are addressing your youth or elsewhere. It is shameful to say that the coronary began by Christians and the rich. It's a disgrace to say that to a doctor. I listened carefully to him yesterday. I said, he's a doctor, let me hear him. He gave it one, it knocked it down. What did you want, Paulie, this? National unity, therefore, on all issues, on that of the coronary, but also on what we live with the hybrid war and what is happening in Evros, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, where national unity is also needed. These are not matters to make micro-political, or to mock ears, nor to appeal to the customers of our parties. Let's get over these humiliations and ideologies. Can I tell you something? Words don't have anything wrong. Look at the substance. There is no harm to the words and the deeds that the citizens are currently doing. Don't you understand what's going on? 'Substantiated', he says, 'protectors in Evros'. You talk about self-protective protectors in Evros, sitting in your comfortable chairs or in the Greek Parliament, while the other people in Evros at less than five degrees and rain, trying to keep the door of their home. Because in the villages, the border of Greece is also the door to their homes. There people know every path, every corridor, every street, every narrow path. They know how to save their space. It doesn't mean it's down business, that they're replacing the state, the army or the police. We don't have to have unintended civilians sitting there and the army doing everything. Don't be afraid. Democracy has nothing to fear at all and leave micro-policies aside. Support these people. If you have internal confusion in general - because you do not know whether you are in favour of or against the closed borders, whether you are in favour or against the deterrence, in favour or against illegal immigrants - these are your issues which will be solved with your youth and with the party mechanisms. Don't put them in there and poison the Greeks. Our locusts up there must know that every one of them in here is on their side, that they have us next to them at these difficult times. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We won't shake their fingers because they went to guard their house, their door, and their borders. I mean, for God's sake. "Christians and the rich brought the coroner" and "the people of Evros" because they protect their home and home! What are we still going to hear? Here's something with Erdogan's play. We've been living here for two days. You've learned what he's doing and what the work he's doing. He went to Brussels the other day. What did he ask for? A lot of billions asked. He left a paper and threatened our European allies with the following: "Or you will pay 32 billion euros - I heard - to build them on the Turkish-Syrian border, there in the dead zone, structures for them that you will make, feed them, you will build them, you will support them, to stop them, or I open them all and we are done." That's what Mr Erdogan said. You should know that the challenges will come back. Already today - I don't know if you've been informed, because five minutes ago this came to the public - we had a very serious episode off Kos. Turkish indignant colluded with a port ship, inoculated it. At dawn this was done and it became known a moment ago. Announcements from the Port Corps are expected. It is a very serious episode of what has happened and I urge you to know about it, because the moments that we live in critical ones are very bad. He needs some kind of self-consciousness. Leave your inner part out. It's a little suspicious. We said, the war's on. We say: 'A, a calm day in Evros'. Go upstairs and see what's going on. Every day individual incidents and citizens fight. Minister, as far as the bill is concerned, it is disappointing for us that - and I have told you in committee - I will say it here officially today - that there is no debate on militia at all. At these times we are living - they are in our programme and in the election campaign, let alone now - the conditions are imposing the militia. We saw these heroic locusts - and we all thanked them - who in the last few days and weeks give battle - and assisted - by the forces of the Armed Forces and the Greek Police. No debate on the militia in this bill, no debate on the active citizen. It's nothing bad. He's an active citizen. For the Greek Solution and our President Kyriakos Velopoulos, the creation of a Greek militia is not a proposal that we now call it opportunity. Why would you count on that, too, that you saw light and entered. No, it's on our schedule before all this is done, because it's an institution we believe in - Velopoulos calls it years - and there's a need to create a militia. The time will come when you will hear him and then move on to the establishment and organization of a militia in the country. You didn't hear about the hybrid war, and now you admit it. "Come on, hybrid war. What hybrid war? A life overthrown by Velopoulos". Not even for the inhabited islands with structures you heard him and now you are licking it, not to say that you are whispering it. You didn't even hear about the closed borders. You have now made it a crown of your campaign and you say: 'See, we are kissing the border'. Nor did you hear about the fences, which we were saying'send a concrete wall'. We wouldn't have had the problems with the flat wire, which the Turks are now trying to break to get in. We say the same about NGOs. Turn them off. The work that the government must do is done by Greek citizens. These are now driven from the islands, while it is your job, of the Greek Government, of the state, to close all illegal NGOs. You should be aware that events will lead you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to the creation of a militia. The fact that we are not talking about a militia, Minister, in this bill, in our party's view, is a huge mistake. We're throwing a historic opportunity into the trash. Strong militia with forces of police and military, with a real wall, is what Velopoulos has said since 2011. We don't live in Luxembourg. Look what we got next to us. Let's see if the Turks would do so kindly now or not. In the world we live, tens of seven countries have a militia. Switzerland - what we call 'Switzerland' - has the largest militia in the world. So, are the Swiss fascists? But trained, not distribute asymmetrical weapons. We'll go to the weapons and the bill in a few minutes, Minister, to see the essence of the bill. We now have the idealists, the fake leftists, to condemn these people who fight Evros. Hey, guys, what can we do? We do not live in a "cost of angelically faked". We have asymmetrical threats from everywhere. We must have a world prepared and military and police, but also civilians active. We - if you want - or you from your couch, criticize and show with the finger those who hold the modern Thermopylae. If it's not at least that's unfair, what is it? I do not know exactly what you think - and I am referring above all to the left or left-wing people - about our borders, our national borders in general, and about our national issues in general. However, for our locusts, I have told you before - the borders of our country are the door to their homes and that you must never forget. We've got a lot of volunteers. The Greek has what we call "friendly", a word that is not translated into no language on the planet. Everyone was activated, poor, mothers, anyone who went there to give them this care we say - a juice, a pie, something to take them and stood by. If these people are training them already, we will have a perfect, perfect result. Minister, you must take all this seriously, because you will come to Velopoulos's words and ours again. Legislate them, make them a bill. Now we're going to the bill for guns, machine guns, automatic, semi-automatics, etc. We are therefore talking about public order and security, so these are very serious issues. So where is the fight against arms smuggling? Unless you are ignoring - which I do not think you are ignorant, because you are very successful in what you have done - that in Greece, in our country, the arms embargo is blossoming. The problem with guns moved in Greece is mostly about terrorism, you know. It is easy to pass to Greece. They're coming from the Balkans. They're the two main gates of illegal weapons. One way in is from the Balkans and the other is from the sea. You know the cost is small for every optimist buyer. You can find a gun - I'm saying now - with a thousand euros if you want a good gun. Over 1000 euros - I say now - if you want to be a virgin, clean man, never used it. We're not talking about anything fun. We're talking about kalashnikovs, tokarovs and other murderous weapons. There's another story, which this year, here at the National Representation, plays a lot, it's fashionable. They are the small ones used by the'micro-birds' we are talking about, but the market is filled with them, the strong perch pistols. What's this? They're awkward. You get 200, 250 euros. They're only streaking. They take the jackals, they turn and they use them as a weapon. So 200, 250 euros now have a gun in their hands. This is a big problem, Minister. I know you know that, too, and we talked about it in committee. Technology's on its way. You don't get them anywhere. The consultation took place here years ago. Since then, conditions and needs have changed, differentiated. It is not Greece as it was, two years ago, nor in relation to Turkey, nor in relation to crime, nor in relation to illegal immigration, with all those who have entered it. Needs have been differentiated and crime knocks on the door every day. Do not look at how we deal with the coronary - and we do well - the hybrid war with Turkey, which we are right to do. Neighbors giggling. Crime has hit red. We've got wild incidents with robbers, who for a few euros draw a gun, shoot people, all the time. And I know them - the police - who gentlemen here show with their fingers and blame them, are the ones trying - with the little money they get, the 800 euros - to stand in every house, every Greek and Greek to prevent crime. That is why, Minister, the legislative framework should provide for certain arrangements. I'll go down. The bill is also called upon to regulate, among other things, the procedure. Now listen - it is very important - because I say you are legislating. A Community directive has come to incorporate it, to make it a fast track, to finish. Oh, no. On the occasion of giving, we shall also make five changes, such as acquisition - use of specific weapons. There is no very important provision: education. So someone's going to get a gun. Shouldn't he be trained? Shouldn't a relevant training have taken precedence over those who go to buy a gun? So I have not read anything about compulsory education in this bill in order to vote for it, to say 'yes'. I have not read anything in this bill that makes provision for shooting knowledge for the person who legally goes to acquire a weapon. Also, third theme, Minister. Shouldn't the owner of a gun have taken relevant lessons and possibly be examined in this piece before he gets the gun and goes around with it? I mean, it's just stuff. We're not saying anything. The guy who's going to get a gun, be trained, attend courses, knowing a shooting. It's like you're going to take a car and you're saying: I'm driving without giving tests for a license, just because I got a car. That's not how it works. You have to train first. It's all about education. That's where we have to start. And the weapons want increased knowledge, they want culture, and they want to understand what their limits are, what their limits are, what they are, what the "can" are, what the "no" of the possession. It's very important. So, Minister, what is the logic of allowing the lawful possession of a weapon for personal security without the occupant to be legally trained in a firehouse, as I have told you? What logic allows this licence to be granted without having certified knowledge of use? What logic allows the licence to be granted where the holder is not required to know legal provisions on the possession, arms, arms use and legal defence? Arms and weapons are acts of high responsibility. It takes continuous training and not just "go, I got a gun and I have it in the drawer or somewhere I lock it in the house". Continuing information, continuing education, good thinking and all of this in a strong legislative framework, Minister. Let's go to the undeclared, which is a huge matter. I don't have time. How are you going to fight them and record these undeclared weapons, which some information says they're about a million? It's too much. In conclusion, Minister, I will tell you that the government must not simply work through, in the fear of a fine from the European Union, 'let us move on to an end'. I told you before. Oh, no. We have an opportunity to legislate properly. When you legislate properly, Minister, we will be on your side. This bill, as you bring it, solves absolutely nothing of the important and we do not vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u12	The special speaker of Mera25, Angeliki Adamopoulou, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary a draft law on the reform of the regime governing arms in our country and our alignment with European legal reality. The bill has some failures and shortcomings, which have been extensively and detailedly highlighted in the committee by both the MPs and the relevant experts at the hearing of the bodies. Nevertheless, in the areas covered, it moves in the right direction, so we shall vote in favour of it at first reading. The question, of course, is why it does not contain any other provisions which would regulate other burning issues, to which I shall refer later. The draft law makes Greek legislation, Directive 853/2017 of the European Parliament and of the European Council on the control of arms acquisition and possession. The provisions of Law 2168/93 are also amended in order to adapt to the spirit of the Directive and to introduce additional measures necessary for the implementation of Implementing Regulation 2403/2015 on the deactivation of firearms. To speed up the text of the bill: harmonise rules on firearms marking, define the criteria for the conversion of certain weapons, regulate issues, in relation to the data collection system and exchange of information between Member States, as well as the deactivation of firearms. We also have new provisions in the field of armaments, with or without authorisation, under the conditions of arms trafficking, disposal and import. New arrangements come for the transfer of arms and related equipment to reports on their confiscation and confiscation of firearms and essential components and the obligation to keep up-to-date electronic records. Weapons on ships and aircraft are also covered, arms issues of those serving in law enforcement authorities in Member States, or in third countries, institutions, bodies, missions or agencies of the European Union. We now have principles and a certificate of deactivation and verification principles. There are also criminal penalties for infringements of the labelling procedures on deactivated weapons, which could, however, be justified, as I have said in committee on several occasions. So these are steps in the right direction - technicalities we would say - which, however, also have a substantial dimension and the right steps will support them. There are, of course, some legislative improvements which could have been made and which I have also referred to in the committee, and there are procedures which must be changed, as the psychiatric company has rightly recommended through its representative, Mr Alevizopoulou, on arms and arms licences, in the standards of driving licences. In other words, with simulation tests to monitor the skills and training of the candidate for the use of weapons and to diagnose - as far as possible - the risk of this, which would like to possess and carry a weapon. In other words, there is what has been rightly said, a closer connection between the weapon and the owner's status as a hunter or a shooter. The collection and valuation of statistics on arms is something that is missing and, also, there was a broad consensus in the committee. More stringent, too, it should be the legislative framework for awkwards. Although, Mr Secretary-General, you told our committee that they are expressly forbidden in the country and are not sold anywhere legally, simple internet tour proves, as I told you in committee, exactly the opposite. I have tabled a document to the committee's minutes, which proves that it is sold legally and freely at the price of EUR 390, the same model that police experts tell us that it can easily be converted into an active semi-automatic pistol, together with a hundred awkward cartridges. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2019 one in twelve Greeks was legally armed with a hunting or firearm. The State Security Directorate estimates that one out of ten is illegally armed. According to official figures in 2019, some eight hundred and twenty-five thousand hunting weapons and five thousand seven hundred forty guns and revolvers, but police estimates mention over a million illegal weapons, from guns and revolvers, to sub-pillars and kalashnikovs. So we understand that these figures create vertigo and justified concern. It is very crucial that we have effective arms monitoring and registration systems, but also that we strengthen customs and other control authorities, so as to finally tackle the latitude of illegal trafficking. So, as much as we legislate, by harmonising Community directives or simply imposing stricter penalties, if real control and education systems are missing, it is impossible to prevent and to suppress acts which are directly linked to domestic and international organized crime and such welfare, unfortunately, in the bill is not provided for. Unfortunately - and here I come to the most serious issue - Mr Secretary-General and ladies and gentlemen, the sad news in our outermost regions has made it clear that other very important additions or initiatives are needed to address a crucial issue which the legislator has not taken into account in the original text and, of course, from our obligation to harmonise with the European directive, which we said we would vote in the first place and generally move in the right direction. In a world of constant changes, lightning speeds and rapid reclassifications, it is sometimes understandable and expected that de facto developments will overcome us. But what we regard as unforgivable is the government to remain silent, uncomfortable and inactive towards reality. In the last ten days it has been fully confirmed that various gunmen have been organised on social media and on other online applications and have established groups in form of militia and with paramilitary features. Some of them are sure that they have already attempted by the Security Body and our Armed Forces and not only have taken action, but they have proudly published their photos on various sites with guns per hand. In the case of Volos, fortunately, the public prosecutors launched timely and efficiently. In other cases, however, this has not happened and we are seeing the developments and the results. Even in the central news releases, various people are parading and stating operational readiness. The government sees a silencer as neither the Prime Minister nor any minister or other government official has come out to officially burn off such behaviours and give public warning to these people that the state will not tolerate such behaviours, which, in other words, are dangerous to the physical integrity of its citizens. The silence is at least awkward at the moment, even though the government is generally popular and has put too much weight on communication management. Whether the government does not understand the problem or assess it correctly or the purpose is to mock the ears of the political audience to which it is addressed. We are very sorry if some of these behaviours seem harmless or simply graphic because they ignore the lessons of the past and leave us helpless to the challenges of the present and future. It is our duty to recall publicly that whenever our country, whenever the political forces tolerated or supported such patriots and such actions of armed paramilitaries, unfortunately home paid it by a national division and a civil spasm. I would ask you not to doubt the designation, because it is purely armed groups with military enclosure, with hierarchy and coordination, with direct networking of their members and, in some cases, with support from relevant foreign organisations. These are people who use their hunting weapons to substitute the state and the competent authorities. This is the good scenario, because apart from hunting weapons, it is very likely that illegal weapons will also be used, beyond the fact that for hunting weapons some have no license or have not renewed their license. Even the hunting confederation in the committee confirmed that. It is therefore a definition of the paramilitary action that brutally tramples anything that can be termed a democracy and a rule of law. So we ask why the government does not take a stand against these actions? Why does he keep a standpoint of accepting this self-righteousness? Why does it tolerate action which is, on the part of the government, a attitude of political opportunism and patriopathy? So why is it with your silence that you wash your hands and allow disastrously reproached and socially and politically, referring to this silence in times where only wounds have left our collective memory and only badly brought home? In any case, whether this attitude shows indifference or opportuneness, the only thing is that, given the criticality of the situation, the manoeuvres, by the government, do not show either sober or effective management in Greece's affairs at this very critical turning point in history. We are therefore entitled to say that we did not end with the extreme right, which emerged in the days of economic Armageddon, because the Golden Dawn was not elected in July. The snake seems to have given birth to more eggs. Greeks are now watching Greeks and forming invasion battalions. I am therefore presenting in the Minutes a relevant report by GALLIA DAILY, according to which seventeen French paramilitaries are already present in Lesvos, and in the next few days arrivals in Lesvos and Athens will continue. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Aggeliki Adamopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] They expect about a hundred people from at least nine extreme right organizations. And we're only talking about those who've confirmed their participation in the news agency that's transmitting, that's probably the number that's actually a lot bigger. Some of them seem to have participated in war operations in Croatia, Syria, Bosnia, Zaire and Ukraine. In fact, their missions include addressing - we all understand how - NGOs and journalists, mainly French and German, as well as maintaining European borders with drones and visual recording equipment and strengthening the links between the patriotic forces of the two countries. And the Golden Dawn, as we very well remember, was a patriotic force that defined itself. So we are talking about these patriots in this case. Mr Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment we must act immediately to prevent the worst, boldly and seriously beyond what Europe and the directive imposes on us on some serious issues. There is an example of Australia, after Port Arthur’s tragedy in Tasmania, where thirty - five people died in 1996 and twenty - three were injured, a record number for twenty years. There, therefore, after the massacre and over 15 years of depth, several voluntary, even subsidised, delivery of illegal weapons, were implemented at the same time as lifting the criminal consequences. Finally, with such disarmament with motivation, the state came to gather around six hundred and fifty thousand illegal firearms. So we also have the possibility for Greece to implement such policies immediately before the poison goes on to the body of our country. We can even take the lead in Europe in order to legislate and finance such programmes. We therefore tell you that we will support such initiatives as long as you dare them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u14	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the speeches of the rapporteurs and of the special speakers. I must remind you that at 12 noon we will be adjourned to have the debate on the waiver of immunity. Until then, the parliamentary representatives will be able to speak when they so request. The Members of Parliament who have been registered are only seven. We will therefore have a rotation of the speakers and of the parliamentary representatives. Mr Bogdanos has the floor now. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group has then asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u15	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a draft law which harmonises Greek legislation with regard to weapons, ammunition, explosives, explosives and other related matters. And we are discussing this draft law while the main legitimate user of weapons and ammunition, the Greek Army and our Armed Forces, face with courage, determination and efficiency an asymmetrical threat to our eastern land and sea borders. Ladies and gentlemen, I will very carefully measure my words, especially when the challenges that the nation has to face are of such intensity, that is what we have to say in our national effort, that it should coordinate in national unity, that it serves the nation's fair and fair interests. So, in this direction and in this direction, let me say that in this unspeakable hybrid-repentant war, because this is what this is all about, ammunition is not just material. Munitions are also instruments, actions, actions of false propaganda on the Turkish side, which aim to hit Greece's international image, to challenge our commitment to international law, legality, liberal democracy, to undermine our morality, but also our unity, which is the essential prerequisite for preventing any survivor. The ear of lies from the Turkish side doesn't just see him in Greece. Fortunately, the Government of the New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has internationally unleashed Turkish lies. We have succeeded in making the issue of European immediately, in removing all intentions from those partners who wanted to find intentions. We saw Erdogan's regime transporting mass people, misinforming, opening up prisons, cutting wires, chilling, tear gas on Greek territory, saying that the number of people who went through is far greater than the Turkish sources, hundreds of thousands of people heard - spread take news about the dead from Greek fire, setting up false reports of people who have worn them up and stole their phone, but then when the camera does so, the mobile is in the pocket, the sweater last year in the middle, fully clothed in the other direction, to indulge Greece for a lack of democracy and humanism. We've broken this one-one and we're going to keep doing it. However, we must be reluctant and responsible to denounce that willing multipliers of these lies, willing, that is, suppliers of arms and ammunition to the enemy, exist within the Greek borders. And here two are the possibility: whether we talk about deep composite personalities or about paid keyboards. And again, I'm going to pay very close attention to my words. I do not question the patriotism of a large part of SYRIZA's executives and voters. This patriotism, moreover, is demonstrated in the recent public opinion surveys that strengthen the single national front and applaud the responsible handling of the crisis by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. But, on the other hand, there is no question that much of the people who willingly move the dirty propaganda of Turkey belong to or face the SYRIZA. So, if nothing else - because I do not even want to think about what this other could be - a maximum moral issue for Civicism, which has to expressly condemn and isolate these tendencies. To know why we are talking about, I am tabling in the Minutes the statements by Members of Parliament Bored and Marcus on allegedly paramilitaries in Evros who act in order to protect illegal villas, Mr Papadimoulis, who says that we want with 700 million to make the home of Moria, Mrs Christidou, who is rushing to adopt a bamboo and directly, without looking at it, the news - and well - of the dead from Greek fire, Mr. Kritsis, who says that we are setting up the war in Evros. Let me give you the pictures of Mr. Kotzia's advisor, SYRIZA's top executive. But there is no family responsibility. This man was closely involved in how the Prespes were made. I give you the picture of the Practicals to protest outside the London Embassy, the Greek Embassy, next to the flags of Al-Nusra, the Syrian jihadists, the FSA, the allies of Erdogan, under the slogan: "The Greek people's killers are also the Greeks. I also give you the case of the posts of Mr. Rapidis, for years as a close associate of Mr. Papadioulis. He was a former member of the SYRIZA foreign policy secretariat, founder of the "BRIDGING EUROPE", who took the polls out at "AGEY" that he was - and well - SYRIZA before the elections six points ahead - he is the gentleman - and of the Model of the European Union Studies - now listen - of the University of Galatasaray - in Constantinople Mr Rapidis - who systematically replicates Turkish propaganda supposedly for those we stripped, allegedly for those who were beaten, who, when the camera opens, show all the dirt of where he comes from and what he wants to achieve. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Let me give you for the record Mr. Xanthos, a health officer, who says we're a neo-nazi host country. And I must also give you the case of your symbolic slogan: "We are Gypsies and Ottomans, Turks provocators and philosophers" of SYRIZA youth who did not criticise it yesterday. He said it's symbolic, it's fine, we like it. Let me give you a sack of headlines of the "E - tetRadio" newspaper: "Sheep on my Heart of Immigrants", Kostas Vaxevani: "Dead refugee in Evros", "E - tetRadio", i.e. again "TetRadio", which speaks again about Macedonians, for Evros' epic, about make news, which is not so great, is the superbly proven first video with the fake dead. Again, I would like to give you the "Documento", which says that "Greek officers and soldiers are shooting in a straight line". Those who know about guns don't even kick the gun in that video. I'm tabling other pages of 'AGE', 'Documento'. Ladies and gentlemen, together with these - and I am closing - I will give you and I will present cases of trolls of those who are so-called, because once we have to talk about these from the Stepping of the House. There is a series of anonymous accounts reproducing Turkish propaganda and - oh of miracle! - they may support politically in a systematic way SYRIZA, monitor all your own members, reproduce them and ritual them. You will tell me: 'We have nothing to do with this.' I'll tell you: Let's go to the Prosecution of Electronic Crime Institutions to see if there is or doesn't exist?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u16	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u17	Take 'Syrow', Mrs Chabika Papadima - a false name, of course - that says they are spraying with pesticides, the army called on the farmer to help a little with the fires they put in the fence and says they are sprayed with chemicals and pesticides. Anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u18	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u19	Finally, you understand that here, we are not talking about supposedly graphic anarchists who are masquerading at times in the center of Athens, where they take the part of Turkey at every opportunity. Here we have a game of systematic reproduction of Turkish propaganda and systematic undermining of Greek positions and actions, played by the tolerance of SYRIZA, by MPs, party officials and friends of attendants. It is therefore absolutely clear that the existing, healthy, patriotic, non-collective side of the SYRIZA must be distanced from all those who are willing to sacrifice up to the national interest in this critical situation on the altar of micro-partyism, ideological blindness. Yes to responsible and documented criticism, yes to democratic pluralism. None at all, however, - and I repeat one - political coverage of those who are lying and slandering undermine the national effort, because that is what this is about. Until there is a clear condemnation, the shadow of the Qualified Opposition is very afraid. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u20	Please, Mr President, I would like the floor
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u21	The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative will have the floor for a minute. Here you go, Mrs. Xenogiannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I believe that what we have heard here today is a sad and embarrassing moment for Parliament and Mr Bogdanos expresses his own views. However, I turn to those Members of the majority who applauded him and would like to say whether he shares the New Democracy Party, the majority of this House, these statements or are they Mr Bogdan's personal views and you disapprove them? Your position here today, and I think that, Mr President, is not just sad, it is a sign that we have seen in the past few days.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u23	He mentioned specific SYRIZA faces and not conceived with SYRIZA. It was specific. MARIA - ELIZA (MariLIZA) XENOGIANNACOPOULOU Excuse me, Mr President, please. It's not your place to interpret Mr. Bogdano. Mr. Bogdanos spoke of himself. We say, then, that when a shadow is mentioned here and spreads, it calls into question SYRIZA as a whole, it refers to fellow Members, it distorts the words of these MPs, if it is not now rejected by the New Democracy and by the current Minister, we will consider this to be a sign of writing how the Government and New Democracy mean national unity at a difficult time, when Alexis Tsipras from the first, from this step of the House, and SYRIZA has talked about the need to put back on the government's efforts and abroad in the negotiation and, of course, about effective border care. But border guarding is a matter for the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies. It is not a case, because we are also talking about a bill today, about controlling the illegal possession of weapons and arms of various inter-state and self-declared groups, because they have been mentioned. That is where previous Members of our Parliament have referred in the past. And I would like to say one thing: if something saved - to some extent - the honour of the New Democracy, a European democratic and liberal party - which you have to make a clear position today - is the statement by your former President, Mr Meymarakis in the European Parliament, where Mr Meymarakis, unfortunately in complete contrast, with these voices of denial, stood up and said that there is, of course, the ultimate support of Officerial Response - and he also spoke about the statements by Mr Tsipras - towards the aggressive labour force and the geopolitical blackmail of Erdogan and divided his position from what has been heard here today. Mr President, we disapprove. We think it takes us back to very sad and dangerous times. National unity also means respecting social unity and democratic principles, not going back to the dark times, as you easily speak, with dryness before the dictatorship between nationalists and anti-nationalists. We are not at this stage, Mr President. We are at a stage where Parliament must finally be respected, that Members' views be respected, that they should not be marked. And I expect the New Democracy officially and the Minister present to disapprove.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u25	Listen, Mr President, in the time that the parliamentary representatives have taken over is within the time. As you know, they have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, I would like to speak. He said a minute. Is one minute in time?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u28	Wait a minute. Maybe he wants to give a clarification from Mr. Bogdan to get things straight. Here, Mr Bogdano, you have the floor for just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u29	I don't even need a minute. I am surprised that Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, whom I know she owns the Greek, is also aware of pension and grammar, did not notice that I spoke twice about the healthy patriotic part of SYRIZA and about the disagreements within SYRIZA. The disagreements between national and parliamentary, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, are the cases in which, with data, with documentary evidence, I submitted to the Greek Parliament's minutes for disseminating false news and Turkish propaganda. I am sure - and I felt it in the applause of my fellow Members - that the New Democracy stands strictly coordinate behind the expression of the need for these phenomena to be condemned by SYRIZA. We have nothing to apologise for anyone and nothing but what really happens. And what is happening is, unfortunately, overwhelmingly against you in this case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u30	Good, enough, the clarification has been given, please, all right, that it was about specific people and not officially your party. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, now has the floor. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute. I'm sorry, Mr. Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u32	Immediately after you have him. Let the President speak, you will be given the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u33	No, for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u34	It can't be done like this. He gave the floor to Mr Bogdano for five minutes and spoke for fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u35	It was personal to Mr. Bogdano! I'm right now...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, please, this is not the case! I'm a party president at Step!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u37	All right, would you excuse me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u38	You must allow me!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u39	Just a minute, procedural!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u40	Only if the President wants to because he was called at the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u41	It can't be, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u42	Procedurally, may I say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u43	No, I asked for the floor, you're wrong, I'm ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u44	New Democracy must speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u45	Well, if it's procedural, Mr. President, I'm sorry, if it's procedural...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u46	Listen, Mr President, this is the last time. If I see a party president up here, the parliamentarian can intervene and wait for the President to tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u47	No, he said he wanted to talk about the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u48	No, you must tell me, Mr President, if any other President has happened to go up here and interrupt him from below, if it happens to another President another time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u49	I don't think it happened, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u50	It never happened! Never! Stop doing this on a continuous basis, ladies and gentlemen! So, okay, Bogdan spoke, you gave him the time, I'll wait for you to talk, too, Mr. Levane? Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, let me reply. I don't think it happened personally for you. What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Bogdano, you asked me for five minutes, you spoke for twenty-five.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u53	Thank you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u54	No, what do you want? You've been abusing time!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Bogdano, you're done! Mr. Bogdano, please! So just one minute for the procedure with the tolerance of the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u56	Yes, thank you very much. Mr President, Mr Velopoulou, we respect - and you know - and I personally and also our institutional role. I am not taking the floor, just because Mrs Xeno-Giannakopoulos has referred to our side of the line, it is my job that this in here should defend the party. So I would like to say very simply and briefly that Mr. Bogdan, firstly, he filed your officials' statements, didn't report all of SYRIZA and, of course, he didn't report to the central position...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u57	But it's distorted, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u58	The explanations have been given!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u59	Would you excuse me, Mr. President? It did not make a direct reference to the President or to the central position of SYRIZA, which, as you said, is covered by Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou and by what you said, but also by what Mr Tsipras says. I just want to say that we all have to keep tons below them, we all have to gather from each party the hard statements that torpedo the climate of unity that the country needs right now, and of course Mr Tsipras also calls for and supports New Democracy as a national government at the moment. And simply by emphasising at the end, in relation to what you said, you rightly referred to Mr Meimarakis. You should, however, have mentioned Mr Mitsotakis himself and the officials of the New Democracy, which we use in the media and in the House, which is why we are national and conversing only on one issue, in the sense of our national interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u60	But Mr. Pechas, unfortunately, didn't say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u61	And with you and all the parties who are militant in this fight will continue for as long as needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u62	The explanations have been given. However, it is not stylish to be President of a party in Step and to interrupt it, to make these speeches. Please don't in the future!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, if you had given me the floor before, I would not have interrupted it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u64	No, I had asked for the reason I was here just after Mr Bogdano.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u66	Because you are constantly talking about the Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen, we must all apply it. And what did they say? What Bogdan said! The same thing in the Bogdan's bullet you said! Reproduction what Bogdan said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u67	He said it for himself, I for New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u68	Not if every Member, Mr Colleague, who speaks here, does not express his party, we have a topic, because he said that he also expresses his party. That's what he said. He returned to his colleagues and said 'I express my party'. Let's know what we're talking about in here! Otherwise remove from the Minutes what Bogdan said. There's no more, let's actually go. There's something else bothering me. To be serious now, these are details to compare and come out on the channels.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u69	I'm starting time now. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u70	He came here, ladies and gentlemen, told you about paramilitary organizations, came a Member of the Greek Parliament and said - in the Minutes of the Parliament - that someone in a "Guardian" wrote something that we have paramilitaries in Greece from other countries. That should worry us, not if there is, because writing someone, somewhere, at one time, doesn't tell me anything. The fact that the country's being exposed doesn't bother you? Instead of saying that we must be careful of the seats of this House, there is a colleague coming out and talking about paramilitaries who fought in Africa as mercenaries, that he is in Kos, he is in Samos and everything else. Unheard of things! These are written in the Minutes of the House. A Turkish Minister will take them tomorrow morning and will say that in the Greek Parliament they accept that there are paramilitaries who are from other countries and have fought for Africa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u71	We'll answer for that too, Mr. Velopoulou!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u72	I'm happy about that! This is the serious and not the rest, because it is a very serious matter to say in Parliament that Greece is hosting paramilitaries from other countries. Christ and God bless you! No evidence, no evidence, because someone told a "Guardian"! Be very careful! There is also leverage on the left, not on the left. When you talk about patriots, you mix the Golden Dawn. If some people in here think the Nazis are patriots, they're wrong. The Nazis are Nazis, they're abominations of society. You can't invoke the fakes, nazis, all of them together for the patriots, because they say they're patriots too. Okay, and some people say they're aliens. We can't talk about this in here, it's wrong. On the other hand, I'm going to answer some of SYRIZA's friends that the villas that protect, as some people told SYRIZA, the Evros people know who they are? Fishermen's cabins! Fishermen's huts are their villas and swimming pools are Evros. Because there were few - fortunately - from SYRIZA - to God, not all SYRIZA is! - they talked about villas and swimming pools, guys! So instead of reproaching those who are the delusion, which is the wrong, the word failure - why could it have been a verbal failure - villas and swimming pools in Evros? Villas and swimming pools in Katali you have, in Voula, in Panorama Thessaloniki, in any case, as in some areas like Mykonos, etc. They protect their home, their home door. So what they're doing to protect their home, start talking in here about villas and swimming pools? And instead of pulling the ear to the one who said it - word failure, saying "I made a mistake", that's not bad, at some point in our lives we all make mistakes in here, we'll make a word failure - you come to welcome and blame those who Bogdan came out and said some things. Okay, I don't know, in life there's "I'm sorry, I was wrong." He wants courage to say "I was wrong". Also a serious matter is the fifteen truck drivers in Iraq, the Iraq-Turkey border, the gentlemen of the New Democracy. Tell the Minister of Foreign Affairs. It's been about fifteen days, people there, and they don't have to eat, they don't have to drink. They have been closed down there so that they don't enter Turkey to cross Greece. They're Greek truck drivers. It's at the mercy of Turkish chauvinism, authoritarianism and abstractism, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does nothing. Fifteen people at the border are waiting for a green light to be made an intervention in the European Union to go through their trucks. They're told they're afraid of the coroner, because Turkey doesn't have a coroner, a case has. That's the way dictatorships are, they hide it all! And they won't let them through. And they call them "examination" and don't test them. Why does it not intervene, Mr. Parliamentary Representative? Tell the Minister of Foreign Affairs. We're talking about fifteen Greek truck drivers! It's souls, isn't it? If they were fifteen illegal immigrants, Ibrahim and Hassan, then you would all run to save them. And you're doing well! Not you, I'm generally saying it. It's not personal. But they are Greeks who work. Nobody's talking, nobody's saying anything. And the worst thing, last night, we had a port ship embedded again by Turkish prodigy. No one mentions it, nobody speaks of the provocativeness of the Turks and we are trying in a way to confront each other in order to play in the channels at night and to have a good time. You're all patriots. I don't question the patriotism of anyone in here. To God's sake, guys! But it really needs attention and national unity. It's not easy. Erdogan's asking for a hot episode. He's asking, he wants it! Don't give him a chance in here, however, to use Erdogan tomorrow morning and say what he wants in his own parliament or his own journalists who are all set up and guns. I don't have much to say about the bill. But, frankly, it shows a few issues that you have not solved, Minister. Honestly, as far as your logic is concerned, this with the Community directive, with the directive of the European Union, I would like to say that the European Union has many directives. Why don't we apply them all? All of them! We're making 'em a bit of a card. We don't all apply them. There are other directives, but they are contradictory to the choices made by any government. And if there was a European Union, ladies and gentlemen, where you speak so much about the European Union, why do I not have the same wage - not the Member, the official - as the German? Why don't we have the same tax? Why don't we get the same benefits? Why isn't it the same? You are living in an imaginary picture that there is a European Union. There isn't! Don't you understand? Even in what you're saying, we had help, Minister, from Merkel, you're wrong. Aid means that it sends Germany, France, Italy, all forces together at the borders of Europe. Did they? Twenty police officers, ten police officers, five police officers. And I ask you, they're sending out seven hundred of FRONTEX people. You know, Minister, the incident with the Danes of FRONTEX, which says "we do not renounce them", they were transferred to Greece. Is that what FRONTEX will do? Will he keep doing the same thing? I want us to be clear. Don't expect Europe, America to save any Greeks. We'll be saved by ourselves if we realize that we're on our own. Unfortunately, you do not understand. It is good that the Prime Minister's extroversion, I agree with him, has done too many things and it is good to copy us. Even this one here copyed the Greek flag. He wore it for the first time and went abroad. I'm cheering now, to God, but all right, it's good. It is good to get successful recipes from other states or other parties and apply them. It's not bad. It means you've brained, even late. But tell me what this story means, that it took you eight months to realize that Mrs. Telian - what is her name? - to the State Department, your legal advisor made criminal mistakes. You've been waiting for eight months to understand, Mr. Ministers and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that this lady is a "five pole" and you're empty. Because it was against the choice to close the borders, by invoking Article 78 of the European Union, it was against the closed borders, the push back and all these events and you had it eight months! This was against the EEZ and it was delayed and you had it eight months within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a legal symbol! Can I tell you something? I will say this once again: in politics it does not mean 'good late' and there is never too late, because politics is the workload for the good of the nation and of the country. When a government is wrong, it does not take on this, but the next generation, its citizens. However, I did not hear 'I'm sorry. You didn't have any other lawyers? Mr Syrigos is here - I apologise for calling for his name - which is an excellent internationalist, excellent professor! Should you have the lady who was saying other things? Haven't we had anyone else to consult? But Mr. Mitsotakis was consulting ELIAMEP, he had with Mr. Dokos. That's the truth! And he doesn't listen to the voice of reason. And you come here today and say 'it's her fault'. So the whole government's gonna throw it in one, he's gonna load it all up, it's gonna be hers for both the EEZ and the rest. No, gentlemen! It's not just her fault. It is also the Foreign Minister's fault that the Prime Minister is responsible for the New Democracy, but it is not the Greek citizen's fault to pay for all this. Also, we're talking about guns and everything else. Ladies and gentlemen, I will say again that there was one thing in Evros that the army did not guard the border, but our police officer, our police officer and the citizen. The citizen, the fisherman, the hunter, the resident of the Prefecture of Evros! And we thank him for that! That's the truth! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So we come to our own words and say: Since the citizen can become an active citizen and a soldier, like in ancient Sparta, why not be a militia and a national militia? But this must be organised, not paramilitary organisations. Organized, like in Switzerland, as it is in America. In America, ladies and gentlemen, because some of you are American fans - former Prime Minister Tsipras had gone, you have especially appreciated America in the past - there is an entire article on what to do with the militia. Copy the American model. What's simpler? Copy the American model of militia and national militia. We don't have to use the army everywhere. But we've said, you've been possessed by ideology and fearful behavior toward SYRIZA. Also, let me tell you something very simple. You're talking about guns. My Minister, all the weapons you want to legitimize, give permission and the others are imported. Support an industry to take out weapons, get hunting guns, get guns out! Because you broke her up. We had a gun industry. But you put the state-runners of PASOK, the New Democracy, those gold - carpets that got ten grand wages a month and all of this broke up. Hey, repeat and reform it for Greece! Do something for the gun industry! It's no different! Let me tell you why, Minister? Because when I pay to get an imported weapon, I'm out of exchange. Greece doesn't print money. So if I pay 10 euros to get the German gun, it means I'm lending 10 euros. And 10 that I pay, it's 20 euros. What's more simply as a numerical one to understand that Greece needs to have a weapons industry? Germany, Turkey, Bulgaria, Romania, I am not talking about France, I am not talking about other countries. Why? Because they don't border with Turkey. We are bordering Turkey. We've got an enemy, and the enemy's squeezing, he wants to bite us! I won't say what we did as a country to the Sophianopoulos. I don't know how many you know the late Sophianopoulos the man who produced guns. The Greek weapon "ARTEMIS" disappeared, the "centre of ethers", so we call it. We sold sixty pieces, we closed this, and the Scaramaga shipyards are in liquidation. What can I say? Instead of sitting down and thinking seriously about all parties how we can build a womb of weapons systems, that's not what we're doing either. We give billions of euros to the Americans, to the Germans, to 2% of our GDP, because of NATO, rather than to produce them. I say not only to produce them and consume them, but also to export them. That means organising a government! Otherwise, you're managing, you're not organizing. On the other hand, I've said it another time and I'll say it again. If the law on the introduction to the Security Body does not change, Minister, we will have a matter. Get the guys from special forces into the police force, they're already trained. Make women educate, as in Israel. I want the Greek woman to be a Spartan, because we're a small country and we don't have a chance of defending ourselves. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Just act like Israel. Israel has enemies around it, Greece has enemies and we have relics! We're not giving birth. I do not believe that anyone who is naive here would think that Hussein would fight if there were a war between Greece and Turkey, who was given Greek identity tomorrow morning. It's a little hard to see! Hussein's kid might. However, he himself, being held by an idealist, an Islamic religious perception, is a little hard to fight homogeneous, his father, as Stalin said in the past, Erdogan of all Islamics. Mr. Secretary, this lady is called Mania Tallanian and, unfortunately, you didn't do anything. I would now like to say something, my Minister, which I say to all my colleagues in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make a personal reference to what has happened in the last four days. No party after Constantine Karamanlis who talked about pimps in here didn't mess with the oligarchs. No party hit the argument, because pimps were there and they would exist if this story went on. No one tried to shed light on these people's pimps. As a Greek solution, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you this: in all the media we are gloated on all major channels. New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK, one time - not always - even the JRC. Then the rest of the channels are cut. If this is called 'democracy', in your own democratic sensitivity, I have another view on democracy. The pluralism that is essential to democracy must be imposed. The Greek Parliament must also not impose, but demand that there be equal rules. We have an ERR that doesn't care at all! Not at all. The Greek Solution is not just wronged, but it is also persecuted by the media. That's the reality. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have not been able to do so. The Greek Solution has succeeded. I want you to listen to me. Marinakis and Savvidis who the Prime Minister could not put them on the same table, put the Greek Solution in their sights. The two of them! We joined them to the detriment of the Greek Solution. Marinakis and Savvides, the channels and the means of informing them, launch cords against us! [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President of Greek Solution is ringing.]] This is not called 'democracy'. It is called the 'Multipurpose of Public Information'. If some people think we'll be scared, they're wrong! Stop eating with fewer people! Stop drinking coffee with fewer people! They've got you as an employee! It's wrong what you're doing! Stop it! And, of course, the war with pimps that never happened at some point has to be done. Of course, the neo-democratics do not want to hear. They're talking to each other. They know. They had one, Constantine Karamanlis, who spoke of pimps in here, and then they all quieted together. But I'm going to say something because it's personal. I do not understand, ladies and gentlemen, how it is possible for there to be pan-Hellenic channels to be blamed for my work by perverting what I have said and for there to be neither an EPP nor a government to draw ears! And I'm saying that because I presented a preparation, because that's my job, which is biological, and I never said it's curing. While they kept lying to me that I said healing, they did not give me the right to apologize, as journalistic ethics says. And because I'm working on the means, I'm gonna say something, because it's legal what I did, it wasn't illegal. It was legal. I once presented it. However, it was not honest with the channels that everyone should be blaming the Greek Solution for the work I do, for other things political criticism and personal deforestation! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] It is a shame that no fellow Member from the New Democracy nor any other party has said 'Children, it is his job'. I repeat I didn't do anything illegal. I didn't say it was a medicine. I didn't say he was curing. And I saw yesterday at the 'OPEN' of Savvidis saying that I said 'Health'. Now, don't me sue him for never having sued me and you don't? I'm going to sue him because I never said "Hey, he's dying." I say this because there is neither a moral nor a democracy. There's nothing! All they care about here is talking to each other. Well, I can see it here! Nobody listens! A colleague tells you his personal complaint. I mean, it's like a SYRIZA MEP to do a nonsense, a word failure, and get the ball all over SYRIZA from all channels! It is dishonest and tragic for democracy to strike a whole body, a movement, because the channels were afraid of the SKAI poll. They suddenly feared 5.5%, 6% of the Greek solution. It's a disgrace. Honestly, I didn't think so. On the other hand, gentlemen of SYRIZA, I would like you to be a little more careful about this story with the Divine Society. It's everyone's choice to go to church. It's everyone's choice to want to translate. It's his right. But getting Mr. Paulakis out and saying that Christians and the rich brought the coronary - Minister of Health was Mr. Paulakis - was wrong. He could say, "I was wrong", because it was neither Christians who brought the coroner nor wealthy. China's here. And on the other hand, even Christians were, are we going back to Rome and say, as Nero said, it's all the Christians' fault? Is that what you want us to do? Isn't that racist, Mr. President? I apologize to you. Isn't it racist to target a group of people? Clearly the Church also took a stand and said that the vulnerable groups would not go. But don't make it panacea now. We have found another diplomatic confrontation that is supposed to be ideologically confronted. Ideal is confrontation. What Christian is melting? Whatever Greek is melting? And why should we target Christians? Of course, he forgot to tell us that they were Chinese and communists. But we do not say that, that is, they are Chinese and communists, as we do not say they are rich and Christians! That was targeting a group of people and it was called here yesterday. And, of course, the Holy Synod did - I repeat - the self-evident one. Now you will tell me: 'Why do journalists ask the priests about the coronary?' You tell me. I see journalists constantly asking about the priests' coronary. For what? Because they're trying to target! The fair's heard about it. They target the group of priests and indirectly Christianity. They ask the microbiologists about people's souls? Could you ask a microbiologist about people's souls? What do you ask the priest? The priest is a scientist? Christ and God bless you! Things are going on that aren't reasonable. In conclusion, I would like to say something about the coronary, because it is a very important issue for the economy. I've seen for the last three days in my business that the tiger, gentlemen of the New Democracy, has collapsed by 30%. This is happening in all companies. In mine, we're 30% to 35% down. Mr. Levane, we're 30% down to 35%. So here I hear that the government will take some measures. It is good, as it must take measures for Evros, for the people of Evros, for the businessmen of Evros who have suffered the suffering, the suffering of Erdogan. Take financial measures. The whole model of the country's economy is wrong. We are relying on the heavy industry, tourism, which, with the first krone kiw is falling apart. So we have the wrong development model. We're counting on shipping. Trade is falling apart. We therefore need to turn to the primary sector in the fourth - fifth generation of industrial production of agricultural products. If we don't get back there, we're lost by hand. Unfortunately, I will once again say that you are managing both the next two - three months for the economy will be scary and dramatic. The coronary isn't a problem. Not to be in panic, that's true. But it will also have financial benefits in the global economy. We'll get the ball. So we must organize, cost ourselves, make a wall, because there is a neck and a tsunami against the Greek economy. I'm saying all this because I don't just want the government to be manager. I want the government to implement proper policies. I want the Prime Minister and this government - which came with a programme of its own, which it did not have at all, but said it would reform the state - to reform the state. 11% of our exports, ladies and gentlemen, are towards Italy. I know, because I'm exporting. 11% of exports are to Italy. Our exports will collapse. That's what the New Democracy has to understand. And, of course, tourist revenues, 18 billion euros a year, are at risk. We've got cancellations. I'm talking to people who have hotels. We have cancellations from tourist hotels and accommodations. Our economy is in danger. The two sectors, shipping and trade, together with tourism, will collapse. I was telling you. You haven't heard from us, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Take serious action. On 1 May we also have auctions. We're talking, guys, we're talking tsunami. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, here comes tsunami. Some people here may do their farm homework or do the Greek Parliament a playground, because a party leader speaks, but they speak to each other. But I'll tell you something. Members of the New Democracy - and I close - if you do not realize that the next three months will be critical for the country and for the national and economic issues, I am afraid what I had said since July that we will have elections soon, you will have to pass it too. You need to shield the country. Call the party leaders. It's not just Greek-Turkish. It's not just illegal immigrants. It's the economy, too. I'm not saying that SYRIZA and New Democracy should go together with the rest of the parties. Here's some ideas. It took eight months to hear us about illegal immigration. It took eight months to copy our measures. Take some of the financial measures we say and then you will rule well. Otherwise, I am not very optimistic, because I do not want solidarity with what the Greek Solution has been through. I want honesty from the Greek Parliament and draw the ears of the oligarchs. Do you want to? So that you don't beg to go to their cans or their newspapers! If you want, democracy will win. If you do not want, there will continue to be a media dictatorship. The Greek Solution, when it governs, will strike this ugly negative phenomenon of the 20 years. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u75	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u76	I'm making some improvements to the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u77	They'll be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u78	Mr Papaleou has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA and we will then be on the special agenda. Here you go, Mr. Papaliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today concerns the control of arms trafficking, possession and use. This check is absolutely necessary. A stricter institutional framework is being adopted in this case, which must govern arms possession and armour. It therefore belongs to the category of legislative initiatives aimed at further control and protection against the acquisition, possession and circulation of arms, where this is allowed, and therefore to address their illegal trafficking, to address organised crime and to reduce crimes of violence and therefore to the security of citizens and I am therefore contributing to public security.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. To understand what my colleague says.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u81	The bill affects the whole of Greek society. In particular, the use of firearms is a multi-dimensional threat, demonstrating the need to intensify the fight against their illicit trafficking. It is obvious that the illicit trafficking, trafficking and use of firearms, as well as related species in view of their imminent nature, poses serious risks to public policy and security. Those dangers must be added to the crimes of honour, which lead to tragedies, but also to the accidents which leave victims, and even to the serious suffering of life. Let us not forget that they also have a serious economic dimension. It has been shown that the problem in countries with high levels of arms possession is a lack of laws aimed at controlling arms. It all comes to the fact that the existence of a strict legislative framework is the only way to reduce the murders of weapons, as it finally appears that guns and, above all, easy access to them are causing violence, since the possession creates psychology for the use of the weapon. The possession and use of weapons as an in- or out-of-import freedom, granted to the citizen in order to protect himself, is a factor that increases the insecurity of the citizen, while studies also lead to the birth of crime. In our time, free access to information and the use of new technologies, such as Internet, couriers, electronic orders, electronic auctions, facilitate the transfer of arms to the illegal market. These modern technologies must use every favoured state to compile archiving systems and databases so that the States are as fully controlled as possible by the traffickers, as well as by their holders. Ladies and gentlemen, guaranteeing the safety of the social group is not achieved by the generalisation of the arms industry, but by its drastic restriction. It is clear and fully compatible with our Constitution, but also the Union law that the right to the possession of a weapon is not an individual right that individuals can exercise without limitation by the state. There is a need for strict limitations and monitoring of their compliance. Moreover, one dimension, which is important here, is the training of those authorised to hold a weapon. Of course, we must not forget the security bodies - and there must be even greater control over them, because in recent years there have been incidents of danger, for example, with the special guard in the courtyard of the AACC, but other policemen outside the service, who are involved in incidents at risk. According to a Communication from the Hellenic Union for Human Rights in 2017-2018, thirty thousand police officers were psychologically examined by the service and seven hundred weapons were removed. The Hellenic Union for Human Rights calls on the Ministry of Citizen Protection to end the attempt to cover up such incidents and focus on reliable selection procedures, better education and psychological support and control of members of the Security Councils. And one final comment, ladies and gentlemen. The latest events in Evros and the islands using weapons from self-indicated border guards - I think, Minister, that this does not require an organised state, such as our country - but also from the well-known right-hand-hand hunters, it shows the size of the risks and the need to intervene on the part of the state. So far, there has been no state intervention. The government is silent, showing opportunism and an effort to make party exploitation of the present difficult national context. It needs political will for self-evident: the protection of legality, in the context of the need for the patriotic duty and the country's right to defend its territorial integrity and national independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Papaliou. At this point we will suspend the debate on the bill for a moment, so that we can move on to the planned debate on the lifting of immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Request for waiver of immunity Members: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, on the request for the waiver of immunity of Mr Nikita Kaklamani. The report was announced by the committee responsible on 5-32020, according to which the members of the committee unanimously proposed that the immunity of Mr Kaklamani be lifted, regardless of the basis of the act in view of the fact that, as we said next time, the Constitution should be reviewed, since it did not take place in the presence of the Member, but I would remind him as the chairman of the committee that Mr Kaklamanis also asked for his immunity to be lifted from the outset. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide, by raising the hands or by raising the request of the Prosecutor, in accordance with the procedure referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 108(1). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 7 March 2018, this procedure has triggered the new system of electronic roll-call voting. At this point I would like to ask Mr Kaklamani if he would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, just for a minute. Firstly, I would like to thank all the Members involved in the special committee who understood that they were in the mood for the very opposite recommendation and as I asked you to make a unanimous decision in favour of the withdrawal, so I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of the withdrawal. And I would like to thank both secretaries of Parliamentary Groups and President of Parliament's Group and many of you who have contacted me to express to me that you have an opposite view. The malnutrition, even the cowards, as you know, do not know, in most cases, the substance which calls for the waiver of immunity. If, then, a backward effect came out, the well-known remarks "Korak eye doesn't work" and all the rest. So since I thank you, I ask you to vote in favour of my waiver of immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Once the debate is concluded on the case of today's special agenda, we shall proceed to the roll-call electronic vote. But before this is done and the system is opened, would any fellow Member or President of Parliament want to take the floor? Oh, no. I would like to point out that the vote includes a matter of waiver of immunity. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened and that Members vote on the request for waiver of immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u86	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of an electronic roll-call vote on the request for the waiver of immunity from Mr Nikita Kaklamanis. A total of 151 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 148 Members voted. 2 Members voted against the lifting of immunity. He voted for 1 Member of Parliament. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted by a majority. The result of the roll-call vote is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming back to the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection. Mrs Anastasia Alexopoulou has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at last a bill was passed in Parliament in 2018, almost two years ago. We are talking about an issue that is defined by some antiquated laws, which concern, that is, a very long time ago. These are in Greece 2020. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] But let it be! The draft law is here and we need to look carefully at some of its points, so that we do not forget. This is an issue that, for example, even in the United States internationally raises many times a storm of discussions and disagreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, please! Mrs. Comrade, continue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Let me stress that once again the Greek Solution is in the face of another important issue and as we have been entitled to, and continue to be entitled to our predictions, we shall be entitled, on this subject, to the question of self-defence of the Greeks, which now, with all that is happening on the islands and on our Evros, acquires a dramatic one, I would say, topicality. Kyriakos Velopoulos has told you for a long time that in the United States, which, after all, does not have our own problems and do not accept the terrible pressure from Turkey and Jihad, the citizens have the right to the possession. But, here in Greece, government and Civicism seem to ignore the problem and not see what comes. Ladies and gentlemen, dare. Look at the reality. Greece is sinking every day and more to uncertainty in chaos. With so many enemies around, with so many crimes, with lawlessness in heights, and we are still discussing whether we should create a militia. Yes, militia and national militia to establish now, before it is too late, as the Greek Solution calls again, the citizens of the armed forces, that is, for centuries the Greeks, the guards of the European values, our culture. So the new bill, behind his time, is a time with increased needs, a bill that characterizes it as a word: Armophobia. We have, for example, hunting. What happens to the whole world? Something that works as a management measure, the sewing guns. However, the draft law prevents the import of stranded weapons into the hunt. The gunpowder we were talking about. A very basic question: why should the citizen not have legal weapons? Why not defend, if necessary, his sacred and loyal places, his home and family? Those who are 'against' claim that crime will rise greatly. And yet, the opposite is going to happen. After all, it is apparent from all the investigations worldwide that the vast majority of the crimes and offences committed with weapons have been committed with non-legally occupied weapons, so that practicable practicable practicable practicing fears. Under Article 4 of the new Law, Article 6 of Law 2168/1993 is very little amended. But shouldn't this article provide that police personnel can always hold target lighting devices with permission from those responsible? Of course the same applies to the devices with the red dots, the famous reddot that exists abroad. Do you know how many lives of people who perform their duties would be saved if the above were legislated? Many people are talking about harmonising Greek legislation with the European and international context. So, should we not clearly separate the hunting weapon from the rest, that is to say, that the gun can be used in hunting, take more than three cartridges? I'm sure you should. Most people will agree with me, because that's the logic that applies throughout the world. Also, in Article 8, which slightly amends articles of the previous law - it is very essential what I am saying to you - there is no provision for testing in snipers, necessary for a new weapon. How will any defects be detected for repair? There is also nothing for the transfer and participation in gun hunting fairs from countries in the European Union and third countries. Therefore, notorious harmonisation is lacking. Ladies and gentlemen, take serious note of what we of the Greek Solution have told you. The times we live are not easy, nor is what is happening around us. What the Greek Solution tells you, Mr. Velopoulos, will be verified. I hope when that happens, it's not too late anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u92	Thank you. Mrs. Sophia Sakova has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law which brings about significant changes in the concept of weaponry, arms and arms, comes to a vote at a particular moment, at a time when dozens of citizens have been organised in peculiar militia with canampins, live with cartridges and are engaged in the hunting of migrants and refugees. I am pleased by the Ministry's announcement that there was no police officer wounded with a gun from these groups, as it had been published online, because that would be a real tragedy. In addition to the production of a right-wing far-right who held a Facebook page with the paranoid title "The hunters of illegal immigrants", I do not see the state interfering, dismantling these groups and arresting those armed to join and wrestle state function. The regulation of arms and arms possessions is a crucial and urgent issue, as long as there is also a place to enforce the law and order not only in Exarches, but also in Evros and not only in the citizens, but also in parts of the state's official bodies. For example, the punch guns used in the intervention to evacuate the occupation of Matrozu Street I am not sure that, in the wording of the law, they are considered legal and under conditions of licensed weapons nor for police forces. But let us come to something more practical. Free metal folding clubs are currently sold. These were also illegal with the previous legislative regime and remain illegal with the bill under discussion and not licensed under Annex 2 of the draft law. On February 19, at the Autofomos Trille Chamber of Athens, which was held after the postponement of the trial of students arrested in the events of the IAO on February 11, 2019, where arrested students were officially acquitted, a police officer of MATs swore on oath that all policemen buy and carry such folding metal bats, that they make systematic use of these weapons instead of for the statutory police bar and that he had hit one student on the back with such a bat. Ask for the minutes of the trial and order the SAD, Minister, and send to the prosecutor the minutes of prosecution, because we will have victims in the future. Nor is the question of the perception of weapons and weapons used by policemen regulated. I will not dwell on the distorting interpretation you gave me during parliamentary scrutiny on Friday 6 March 2020. A police off duty with a protected weapon inside the AACC and police again off duty coming to nightclubs in Ghazi, they eat wood while they're armed, they shoot in the air and they get shot by the bracelets and their gun. These suggest that this problem is a real one, ladies and gentlemen. These people have obviously not realized that their weapon is a dangerous object, it has bullets and it can remove lives. They do not understand the limits of the use of their weapons, they do not have the temptation and control of the emotions that any uniform has to have. So, here there is a real lack of education and, of course, a matter of self-regulatedness, because some people cannot be trained - because of their personal characteristics - to bear a weapon and should not be considered suitable for such a service. This deficit is not replaced by the teaching of individual rights through the legal manuals taught in the productive schools of Police submitted by Mr Economou in the Minutes of 6 March 2020. It is a practical issue, a matter of hours of realistic training, particularly in handling situations without the weapon that it appears is not provided. Minister, try to regulate this issue, because we will live in dangerous situations. I will end with two issues that need to be given special attention. First, supplying to staff of airport guards, Article 1(2)(d) of the draft law, for which, according to Article 2(1), a licence shall be issued in the name of the private, natural or legal person authorised to operate the airport. The question put here is the safety of passengers, as there are no specific training and conditions for private staff who will potentially make use of these weapons. Finally, paragraph 1 of Article 7 of this Law amending paragraph 4 of Article 10 of Law 2168/1993. This Article does not require the issue of a gun permit for officials to enforce the law of the Member States of the European Union or of third countries sent to the Greek territory for joint operations with the Greek authorities or for participation in operations of the European Border or Coast Guard, if the weapon is legally held under national law of the country of origin. Such arms and the names of the participants, as you say, shall be notified at the national contact point. Really, Minister, who will be responsible for the notification, the national authority or the European Authority? This requires further clarification. This is where the question arises: Why is there no limit to this weaponry? So, will those from third countries or countries of the European Union be able to have automatic ballast or machine guns or firearms within the territory? I would stress this, because this is not a military force where this issue will come to Parliament to decide in the Constitution on the issue of the number and armament of this force. This will be a coordinate armed force with heavy weapons that will legally own in its own country, as the Port Special Operations Group or the police's counter-terrorism unit owns here. Do we feel safe, ladies and gentlemen, to have such units from foreign countries on our territory? Because here there is no limit to the kind of weaponry of these forces, nor to their number. In the end, is this provision in line with the principle of defending the national independence and territorial integrity of the country? You will allow me to close and listen to a number of colleagues, to make a hint. Let us take care, ladies and gentlemen, in these special and difficult hours for our country, that our word is not extreme, dangerous and splitting. Let us be careful not to incite the snake’s egg with our own word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u94	Thank you. Now Mr Athanasios Davakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, in this bill we are discussing, we are recording a convergence of the Greek legal framework for arms with that of the European, incorporating this directive. At the same time, we are strengthening the maintenance of the balance between legal possessions and public security. They are events that are directly involved in the possession of the weapon. The rightful possession of weapons is not a danger to our country, nor is it a threat to public security, as it may have been made in other cases. What is needed is that it objectively ensures the use of weapons, whether they are called hunting, whether they are called a means for their personal security or other purposes. I believe that the changes which today's legal framework has prompted us to say in various directions of convergence with the countries of the outside world must first be made in terms of the issue - as we have said, Mr President - of the issue of a licence for a centralised, and as a whole, of the weapons that each holder has. In other words, in a public document it must have a record of the weapons of one or more of them, which one has and not have multiple arms possessions. It is something that I believe you can see, as well as the wording of the term'safeguard'. What does it mean to be safe? A lot has been said in committee. I think that you need to see this, when it comes to visiting the organs of the classroom at the homes of applicants for a gun - this is happening abroad - so that in the case of theft it is not the owner of the weapon, but it is something that is now about public security and public order and other matters. At the same time, this Directive retains the broad definition of the weapon so that it falls within this category and non- firearms, as well as redefined critical concepts, such as the definition of the firearm or parts of the weapon, and some important clarifications are given. I believe - and I close with this, it is short of my intervention - that there must be a preparation and attention, Minister, on the whole issue of arms licences. Both the questionnaire on pistol or revolver, and the subsequent questionnaire procedure if the applicant for a gun permit is successful in resolving the gun, are, in my view - in my opinion - a lot of interventions. As far as the questionnaire is concerned, I believe that there are questions which are absolutely unnecessary and which - I would say - the process and the attention of people. These questions are very detailed, in short. You should see them again, as well as the issues of resolving and harmonizing any weapon. Those who are applying for a gun licence are not a pistol, nor are people who are professionals of the night. They are some who, with some reason, which is done - if accepted by the service, will take the weapon. So the agency can't ask them during the examination to resolve or fit any weapon. There are some weapons, five, six guns and they say the executives of the Greek Police, who are very careful to do their duty, on the basis of orders, to resolve or to fit this weapon. I or anyone like I want - and must be required - to be able to solve or fit his own weapon, the guy who asks for the gun, and not any weapon. He is neither a armourier nor a man who has a special ability and a special relationship with weapons. I believe that you need to see this, so that the specific weapon that it calls for, the type of weapon, that is, the type of weapon licensed, is able to solve it, to fit it or other issues of the safety and functioning of that weapon, as well as the maintenance of that weapon. That's all I wanted to say. I think it is in the right direction and I call on all the parties to vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. Mr Evangelos Syrigos has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill which is an incorporation of a firearms directive, but unfortunately all this is happening while there are too many and serious developments on national issues. I am thinking of what happened on Monday's three-day day, and it is good to see them carefully, because what happened was not something simple that happened, it was not just a repetition of 2015. It was organized, followed by the following elements: First of all, it was an asymmetric energy, in the sense that there are no defences in theory against such a situation. The second was that it used low-cost means, i.e. immigrants and refugees, which, however, disproportionately high costs - that is, asymmetric - results. It aimed at the weak point of the opponent, the way in which the Greek state, as well as Europe in general, faces migration and refugee flows. While, on the Turkish side, there was no mobilisation of military forces, only several days later, we heard that about a thousand men were going to the Greek-Turkish border, we were forced to mobilise military and police forces to Evros and the Port and the Navy, which means great oppression, without corresponding mobilisation from the other side. The choice to maintain conflicts at the lowest possible level shows the energy asymmetric. The time all of this took place was on the 3rd day of Pure Monday. Equitablely those who planned it believed that there would be relaxation and could put some tens of thousands of immigrants and refugees in Greece. Since the beginning of all these actions, a mechanism for producing false news was put in place. Unfortunately, some in Greece have reproduced some of these news very sharply, which means that we have to be careful, especially in information that comes from the other side, without being seen and while we know that such an information war is taking place. That's not how opposition is done. It has created confusion about the nature and objective of the threat. In theory, he wanted to recall Turkey's refugee problem. In fact, however, he wanted to destabilize Greece. And here we come to the most fundamental thing: while Turkey's move was blatantly violating international law, using its provisions on humanitarian law and asylum law, in order to curb the opponent's action, we actually had an excellent case. What was that exceptional case? Humanity laws and asylum procedures were used to destabilise us. Turkey has basically made a new page in international law with its moves. All this reminded me of human shields. What are human shields? It is the use of civilians who place them around military targets, with the aim of the other side not to harm military targets. In this sense, we have a new page, a new crime in international law, which has implications for both the people used and the countries to whom they are addressed. I could describe it as using a large number of people who are headed centrally against another state to violate its borders and misuse humanitarian law and asylum procedures so that by their number they can make them inactive and ultimately destabilise the other country. That was what happened these days, the three-day Purple Monday. Surprise failed. He failed for a number of reasons. The first reason was the wrong choice of Evros. Under any circumstances either three-day Clean Monday, Christmas, Easter or any other day of the year, Evros is kept and kept very well. The second reason was that measures had already been taken to prevent such incidents. Here, Minister, allow me to congratulate you on setting up a headquarters in Vrisha for several months, which has worked well at this time and where there were police and military forces together for the first time under these circumstances. In fact, you have my sincere congratulations on the way you have dealt with it. There was, therefore, a proper Greek organization, and indeed the right approach. The government showed very fast reflexes. He sent up police forces because police forces are critical, because when you have civilians you can't use an army. You'll have human victims. It is clear that the Turkish side was seeking to have human victims. The third point is that the Greek government had already taken steps to prevent the flows, two days before this particular incident, before this decision to use the three-day clean Monday, had been given orders to have strict border surveillance. I would like here to make a small parentheses about pushback, because I listen constantly 'you do not do pushback'. Pushback is the immediate re-promotion of refugees and immigrants who have crossed a border and are already under the jurisdiction of another country and the other country returns them back, crossing the border again. There was no pushback here because we did not allow them to cross the Greek border. This is a crucial point. All that happened was serving a goal, subjecting the opponent without a battle. Things went well, in the sense that surprise failed. It is a critical point that we have spent those difficult days and have fully met our obligations in relation to the Constitution for the Protection of our country and our borders, but also our obligations vis-à-vis the European partners, as they refer to in European treaties. Finally, I would like to make a comment on the Greek Prime Minister's visit to Germany and Austria in the last few days. First time in the last ten years Greek Prime Minister went abroad and received friendly back blows, not by pity about the situation in which his country is found, but by approval of the way he faced a very great and asymmetrical challenge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Syrgos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Members of all the parties who participate in the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice, for the very constructive debate in its meetings and for the comments and points made. It turns out in practice that dialogue, when it is initiated under the parliamentary procedure, can be creative and effective and lead to useful conclusions and positive results. Taking into account the suffocatingly narrow framework which forms a European Union directive at the stage of harmonisation of the legislation of Greece, I am pleased to inform the members of the National Representation that a significant number of these markings have been assessed in such a way as to lead to a series of legislative improvements aimed at the completeness of the legal framework, which governs the regulation of issues relating to weapons, ammunition, explosives, explosives and other provisions. Following the position of the honourable Members at the hearing of the bodies and the labels of the Parliament's Scientific Service, it has been clarified and further explained the legislative definitions and scope of the legal types of arms and of their legitimate holders. Other issues, in particular issues from what has been said, may be the subject of an OSH or other legislation in the future. Finally, the minimum penalties were tightened up in the event of criminal sanctions being imposed, due to violation of the law's requirements, and we are sending out a clear signal that the state's will is constantly rigorous and fully controlled framework on the use and possession of weapons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u100	Thank you. Ms Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly a time when our country and the Greek society are being tested multiplely. It is, therefore, a time when we must have a high sense of political and parliamentary responsibility, we must defend social cohesion and solidarity and the strengths of society - I shall also refer to the issue of the coronary, because it is a test that has many aspects - and it is certainly a time when we must also take appropriate measures around all these issues. So, because the issue of the coronary is at the moment at the forefront of responsibility and need - addressing, predicting and, at the same time, being able to take all the necessary measures in time - I understand, Minister, that the Government representative at the moment gave a few more clarifications on the question of the closure of schools, so it is only natural that we should wait for the official legislative act to be placed on the table. I would like, however, clearly from this step to say that first of all, the government's priority must be to support the National Health System. We believe that the measures announced by the government are positive in terms of addressing and predicting the coronary, but not enough. It is not enough at all. That is why there needs to be much more funding for the National Health System. Of course, it is not enough for the 15 million, as has been announced, not enough for the equipment, nor for the special units that will be required, nor for all other medical matters. Recruitment needs to be accelerated. Thousands of recruits must, in conditions of transparency, become immediately. At the same time, at least four thousand permanent posts of medical and nursing staff should be launched. They must be able to start these procedures, because this will be a test for the National Health System and for our country, which unfortunately will have a future. And since Italy's example is bleak, measures need to be taken in time and all measures should be strengthened. As far as the closure of schools is concerned, I would like to say that it is clear that it is the first reason the respective scientists have it. It is an appropriate measure. From there on, measures need to be taken - and I understand that these are the communications that Mr Petsas has made - as far as parents are concerned. We all understand that these weeks one of the two working parents should be at home. It is important that it has been clarified - if I have understood well since the current briefing by the Government representative - that the remuneration of the parents who will be forced to take a special leave will be fully guaranteed. However, there is an ambiguity as to whether all these licences will be considered as special additional licences or counted, a number of them, on regular annual permits. Our position is that all these licences should, of course, be covered as special permits and not count on workers' permits in the sense that we have a difficult period ahead of us. Enterprises and labour must also be supported. That is why there needs to be a specific financial provision to support businesses, workers' insurance contributions, not just parents, but also those which will be needed for a number of days on the basis of the National Public Health Agency's instructions to stay at home. They should have full remuneration, full coverage and should not be counted for their absence from the service or from the private sector in any sense. Since some communications were made in the European Union yesterday, following the contacts between the Heads of State or Government, there is a need for the government to make full use of the financial instrument which seems to be designed to support both the economy and business and above all the work. Finally, our position is clear. Throughout this test we consider it self-evident, and we expect the government to announce it, that there will be an extension of the protection of the first residence. It is something that has already been done in Italy. We do not think that at this stage of the test of society, of workers and small and medium-sized enterprises, there can be any flaw in this matter. At the same time, there is also a period of trial for our country - other colleagues have said before and there has been a debate - due to Turkey's aggression, the work of the desperate refugees and immigrants and Erdogan's geopolitical blackmail. Minister, you have been in committee all this time and with very modesty and seriousness you have defended this draft law. In principle, we agree with most of the articles. I am going to address two - three issues, which our rapporteur mentioned earlier, on which we still have some reservations, and perhaps something can be done until the vote. We believe it is very critical - and this is a matter that we discussed before - when we talk about unity and national unity, this must be done honestly, it must be done with democratic principles, it must be done with respect for international law. That is why SYRIZA and our President from the outset said that we are clearly supporting the country's effort and abroad, but in any case this effort must respect certain principles and make some basic claims. No one doubts that the statements by the European institutions and any contact by the Greek Prime Minister abroad are important and there are disapprovals or support from the country. But, ladies and gentlemen, that is not enough. It is necessary - and we have stressed this at the very first moment - to bring the European Council closer together because there, in addition to the general statements, the leaders of the European Union are now obliged to take concrete decisions. In other words, concrete pressure, a threat to sanctions and, if necessary, sanctions against Turkey. We are now seeing, because we have not heard about this issue that Alexis Tsipras said from this step ten days ago, that Turkey should take the initiative in not implementing the joint declaration of the European Union - Turkey, as they stated in Brussels, on which Turkey itself has, of course, responsibility for the violation. So he convenes an informal meeting in Istanbul in the next few days, without Greece's participation, where decisions will be made on issues that concern us as well. This therefore urges the need at the highest European level for this debate to be held with pressure on Turkey. We must, however, put on the agenda for an update of the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey with very specific issues and with regard to respect for Turkey's obligations, and as regards the need for a fair burden-sharing and relocation plan from Greece to Europe at last. It is not just enough for a voluntary, as has been said, to relocate minors. And, of course, our country must claim the update, which will in fact be made, of the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey and the possibility of returning from the Greek inland country as well. All these issues are crucial and important. The Minister for Migration Policy, Mr Metarakis, also admitted last week that Greece has not yet submitted an official request for the activation of Article 78 in respect of relocations. I fear that one reason that has not been raised is that it obviously does not want to displease Germany or our other partners. However, the Greek Government's attitude of delaying or suspending asylum, which has in fact been said by the President of the European Commission and by Mrs Johanssen, in addition to violating international law and Geneva's conditions, is also a pretext for the negotiation of this relocation. So, Minister, because I am aware of your democratic morality - I am now joining the draft law - it has unfortunately taken several days to the government in an indirect way to disapprove the self-invited gunmen and the paramilitaries and extremists who have lived in the first days of the crisis in Evros on the border, but also in our islands, and the extremes that we have seen, the violent actions against non-governmental organisations, against any other voice, may have existed from the inhabitants or from other parties and this overall unacceptable behaviour. It is clear that in our democracy those who have responsibility for safeguarding and defending our borders, constitutionally and on the basis of the law, are, of course, the Security Bodies and the Armed Forces. So there needs to be a clear democratic reminder of this. Unfortunately, we are continuing to hear voices which attempt to cover or justify such religious and paramilitary acts, which even come and blame the opposition for a patriotism deficit, because we raise these issues. As far as the draft law is concerned, we consider it a positive draft law and agree. It's in the right direction. It is a key issue for a European democratic country to have absolute control and restraint with strict conditions of trade, arms and arms use. We also have a number of comments which have been made by our rapporteur, such as the need to train those who have the right to have a weapon, according to the law and a number of other issues. In general terms, however, we support it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Two topics we'd like you to see. It is in Article 2 with regard to the import of loaders and some other specific weapons, which we believe should also be allowed there, and Article 7, which we believe would be more appropriate there, and there too would be a prior authorisation for citizens and missions from third countries, because it is not enough simply to be in accordance with the laws of the country of origin, because that of course has to be checked and it would be much more effective in these cases, because we are talking about third countries which may also have a different framework in relation to the European Union in terms of armaments and which also go into reciprocity. In these words, we generally support the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u102	Thank you. Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law, which concerns the incorporation of the European Parliament's Directive 853/2017, is currently being introduced into Parliament. This draft law comes at a critical moment for our country. Turkey for its own geopolitical, internal, economic reasons is threatening both Greece and the European Union openly and provokingly. Turkey threatens, uses para-state methods to invade our country without control of hundreds of thousands of immigrants, uses desperate people transported with the help of the Turkish army, puts women and children on the front, puts people on the front without any doubt as to whether they are immigrant and from the back is located and the army of the neighbouring country is hiding. Mr. Erdogan, the politician, who has sent thousands of Turks to prisons, who has the type of neighboring country in the plaster and acted like an international terrorist, pretends to be burned for their rights, is supposedly burning for human rights, making unacceptable statements, as he did today for our country, dispersing fake news and provoking, as today at dawn, the invasion of the port openly from Kos. The vast majority of our people understand that in this case it is not just a refugee or an immigration or a humanitarian problem, but it is indeed a direct threat to our country by means of the raw work of refugees and immigrants. Faced with this danger, there is a need for and there are strong national fronts, determination, support for the efforts of our Army, the country's Security Forces. Fortunately, there are not many people in our country who, in the name of humanity, feel that our borders should be open and that the emergence of genuine patriotism may involve the risk of conservative or extreme right-wing. Fortunately, our progressive party has nothing to do with such voices. He has given time samples of patriotism and knows very well the way to the extreme right many times they open him up irresponsible and marginal views. Of course they cannot meet our proper condemnation and isolation phenomena, such as Nazis, inappropriate behaviors even in pregnant women or burns of structures for immigrants and refugees. These require fascist, anti-democratic behaviours that are not forgiven for anything and for no reason. Ladies and gentlemen, Turkey does not respect, as in the past, neither the International Law nor the European Union-Turkey Joint Declaration on the Management of Migration. Turkey is trampled. It has been abolished in practice - that is the truth - and presents a provocative behaviour which endangers the safety and integrity of our country. Our land and sea borders are under great pressure and the security of our country and the unity of the nation are national. We must all strongly condemn the Turkish challenges both to Greece and to Europe. We must defend the truth against the Erdogan regime's provocations and make news. We have a duty to be quite clear and unequivocal that our country's borders, our country's borders, are impenetrable. The borders of Greece are also a border of the European Union and we are not going to take a step behind their defence. That is why the European Union must also support us in this difficult crisis, which we are facing. The refugee - immigration issue must emerge as a sovereign European issue and not just as a Greek Turkish issue. The visit of European officials to Evros, the condemnation of Turkey by the Foreign Ministers meeting, the recent statements by Chancellor Merkel who openly condemned Turkish provocation and aggression or even the horrific financial assistance, which the European Union is giving us and will provide us, are of value to the countries of the European Union. But that's not enough. It is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to take concrete economic measures and not just sanctions against Turkey. The government must demand a more urgent equal distribution of refugees in all European countries so that our country does not become a soul store in Europe. The Government must call for a European summit to be convened, but it must also inform the political leaders and parties, as it should, of its strategy on this issue. We are at the beginning of a possible adventure. We have so far managed not to allow the extortion of Erdogan from our country and from the European Union not to open up the borders, to open up Europe. In front of us there are risks. It is therefore our national duty to stand up and stand together, far from disputes. Of course, we do not all have the same views on the treatment of refugees - immigration. But we must realise that at these moments we do not have the luxury of taking part in disputes, and that is why we call for the meeting of the Council of Political Heads to be confirmed and there to be a clear national line. It recommends that Europe show its strength and determination. Together to face Turkish aggression. Together we need to deal with the migration problem - refugee problem. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's bill too, our firm position is that the control of arms trafficking, use and possession is essential. The security of society as a whole is in no way achieved by the generalisation of the arms industry, but contrary to its drastic limitation. It is common assumption that the illicit trafficking, trafficking and use of firearms, as well as related species, in view of their dangerous nature, poses serious risks to the security of citizens, public order and security. The unjust and tragic death of young Marios in Minidas in 2017 reminds us of this constantly. The legitimate and careful use of arms is mainly necessary by the security forces that their state has commissioned to protect citizens, public order and security, but ultimately our own democracy. The Greek Constitution does not provide for a right to the possession, contrary to the other constitutions. A gun can be brought or held for the sake of legal defence or because it is a hunter or because it is a shooter. It would therefore be extremely beneficial for both the holders and the state to pass past trial training prior to the issue of armaments, because it is an issue of safeguarding social peace and public security. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of this bill, we could start to change our viewpoint and focus exclusively on who and why the weapon holds it, but also under what circumstances and circumstances it should be used. This bill is another amendment to the existing demonstrable framework, which governs arms in the context of compliance with Directive 2017/853, reconstructing concepts and definitions, while the amount of prison sentences and penalty payments provided for in Law 2168/1993 remains unchanged. All previous laws that amended the basic law of 1993 are PASOK laws. So our suggestion, Minister, and ladies and gentlemen, on the provisions of the bill is and remains positive. To conclude, I would like to point out that guns are not a game. I really hope there were no weapons. But they are necessary tools. So there must be responsibility, there must be accountability and criteria for who is entitled to own them and what sanctions those who use them outside the framework laid down by the law will receive. Let me conclude by pointing out that these hours our country is also going through the test, among dozens of other countries of the world, of the spread of the coronary. I would like to offer my congratulations to all people in the health area who have given and every day give the battle to keep our country away or as far away from spreading the virus. But the danger is ahead of us, and we all have to show coolness, not to let panic exist, all to show respect for scientists' instructions alone. The schools are closed and they're right. A series of activities have been restricted and correctly restricted, possibly needing others. Rules got in. I want to be optimistic. However, it would be my omission not to say that the rules and instructions of scientists should relate to both the functional events and procedures of the Church. Alas, ladies and gentlemen, if faith is tested by whether people and, basically, older people are conspiring to monitor a function or to translate into a series, placing themselves and their children, their grandchildren, their relatives at a visible risk. Scientists must speak with the utmost clarity, and the political world must follow and we must all join in the context of protecting health and life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u104	Thank you. Mr. Vassiliardos, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, has the floor now. Mrs Bakadima will be followed and we will close with Mr Lebanese. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. This draft law is another one of what comes from the drawers of SYRIZA. The relevant European Union directive, 853/2017 has been adopted since 2017, while the public consultation of the draft law was completed on 26-11-2018. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why didn't SYRIZA promote it, really, before? Why is New Democracy promoting it now? However, this is another directive of the European Union, one of the many things that has been submitted in recent years and which is directly incorporated into Greek legislation, by announcing previous provisions. Our country or any other Member State cannot have an opinion on what the Brussels committees decide. What is the aim of this legislation? After all, is it compulsory to be adopted when other European Union countries react to it and to other directives? Now reading the explanatory memorandum to the law, we were struck by the impression that it has been written by the international systemic media, which at times insist on the abolition of arms, at the same time as intensified policing by state and non-state organisations. As far as the present legislation is concerned, it was the terrorist attacks in Europe, especially in France, where firearms had been used, as they were known. It can be seen, however, that despite the adoption of specific legislation, and despite the police force which was intensified at unprecedented levels in the European Union, terrorist attacks are continuing. In addition, cars and trucks are used which attack unsuspecting pedestrians, as happened on the Berlin Christmas market, Liburg and elsewhere recently. So, could driving be banned under these conditions too? In Sweden, there has now been an uncontrolled action by gangs using self-contained structures for bombing and the burning of cars, while the explosive mechanism used - we all remember it very well - in the Boston Marathon. Terror attacks are also manifested with illegal weapons that are widespread. Therefore, the only thing that the directive will achieve will be the disarmament of the law-makers and not the terrorists. Continuing, crime in the European Union and in Greece in recent years has increased greatly, but without being due to arms laws and arms in existence. For example, in Belgium, which precedes the statistics, there are a hundred sixty-seven robberies per 100 thousand inhabitants, while in Greece only forty, as we will testify in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Greece, of course, has a larger number of police officers than the other European Union countries, which is not fully known, four hundred ninety-seven police officers per 100 000 people, when the average of the European Union is three hundred and twenty-six police officers per 100 000 inhabitants. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It therefore spends more money when crimes are being increased, particularly the robberies that tripled between 2002 and 2012 with EUROSTAT figures, car thefts, as well as the attacks. It could, of course, be argued that the rise in crime is due to the rise in illegal immigration, the rapid drop in our standard of living due to monuments, unemployment and others, but cases which unfortunately or fortunately cannot be documented. All we can do is say that something is wrong in our country, because crime is increasing despite having the most police officers in the European Union after Cyprus. We also want to note that the Czech Republic does not apply this directive, namely Directive 2017/853. On the contrary, it has recently adopted legislation allowing firearms to be held under conditions as a measure of protection against terrorism. After all, as the Minister for Home Affairs stated, no terrorist action is done with legally acquired weapons. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Something similar to the Czech Republic is true in the United States, where their Constitution supports the possession as a measure of protection of the constitution. In this respect, according to the second amendment to the Constitution of the United States, the following applies: A well-organised militia, which is essential for the security of an independent state and the right of citizens to have and bear weapons, must not be violated. The Supreme Court of the United States in its decisions since 2008 and 2010 has not called into question the right to weapons for legitimate purposes, such as protection of life within the home. Given that we as a Greek Solution support the creation of a national militia and militia, we propose to think about it better before voting on this draft law. In Europe now there is a large number of weapons, a total of 79.8 million in 2017 in a population of five hundred thirteen million, that is about fifteen weapons per 100 inhabitants, as we will deposit in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In some countries there is a broadly legitimate possession, such as in Austria with thirty registered weapons per 100 inhabitants, while in others there are more than 50% unrecorded than estimated existing weapons, such as Poland, Belgium, Hungary, Cyprus and Italy. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The same also applies to Turkey, where one third of the households are believed to be armed. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In Greece there are declared eight hundred and twenty-five thousand forty hunting guns and five thousand seven hundred firearms, guns and revolvers. There are just as many non-registered ones, since more than a million illegal weapons are circulated, as Mr Hetas, the rapporteur of the Greek Solution, from guns and revolvers to kalashnikovs who are smuggled. According to a European Union report, the turnover of smuggling in 2015 was between EUR 250 million and EUR 500 million, without, of course, having precise calculations. I also put it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In conclusion, there are many laws on armaments in the European Union, which are generally permitted after authorisation, although in some countries, as in Austria, no authorisation is required. In particular, an authorisation may be issued for automatic firearms in the following countries: Austria, the Czech Republic, Poland, Switzerland, Malta, Sweden, Slovakia and Norway. In conclusion, therefore, we believe that the adoption of the law would be a deserving move, since it is not about all the states of the European Union and we do not know whether it will be implemented by all. In addition, we are today faced with asymmetric conditions, such as those with Turkey, while the other countries of the European Union do not have the same problems. We therefore believe that instead of dealing with such bills, the government should take measures for our economy, not only because of the coronary - this is something that has emerged now - or Brexit or the bankruptcy of "THOMAS COOK", but more generally because, without growth, Greece will not solve any of its problems. Some of these measures, which we are proposing as Greek Solution, are, above all, a reduction in the tax on hotels for the consumption of Greek products, since Greece is not allowed to import almost 75% of all what it needs from its tourism industry, while Italy is only 15%. Secondly, the country's economic model needs to be changed immediately with emphasis on the primary sector, its transformation and industry. It seems that in times when the economy in general does not go well, the model of tourism and shipping, as we have today, is extremely problematic. Thirdly, we must finally abolish the advance payment of taxes, which we say from the outset. The government reduced it from 100% to 95%, obviously mocking the citizens, while we said it should be reduced to at least 50%. Today it is essential to abolish the advance tax. Fourthly, the minimum remuneration which, according to the Budget Office, does not affect the general level of prices must be increased. Fifthly, a state-owned company should be set up to manage the first home, the first home mortgage that is in debt. Less than EUR 6 billion will be required and the government must stop mocking the world just to support the banks. Furthermore, the Public Investment Programme must definitely be increased, and that is why profits from our own bonds, from ANFAs and SMPs, which are estimated at around 1.3 billion a year. We should be given all the profits that Europe has in store to increase the Public Investment Programme. Finally, we must at some point demand that Greek bonds be accepted by the European Central Bank, as is the case with all other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u106	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Spyridon Lebanese has the floor now. Here, Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to begin by condemning, within Parliament, the unacceptable action of the embezzlement of the Greek vessel from the Turkish impoverished. It is another indication of Turkish provocativeness. Such actions are completely condemnable and demonstrate the desperation of Ankara, which, given the isolation in which it has come, attempts to further escalate the tension. However, the Greek Government, in close agreement with the European authorities, is facing Turkish provocation wherever it is manifested. We congratulate the men of the port on the impeccable treatment of this new unacceptable action by Turkey. I wanted to take advantage of time and give some answers soon. So I am starting with the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. I would like to say first of all that we are seeing today - you know - that both at personal level and politically can be useful, responsible and efficient when you want it. In this context, we have recorded, I think, all, but also myself, the proposals and the concerns you have expressed for the first residence, and also for the permits granted to parents who have children under 15 and so forth. I think that this creates a climate of dialogue. There are differences. You are proposing that the government, on the basis of the developments that we have - because you realise that these things are, firstly, unprecedented and, secondly, I think that we are dealing with them effectively and on the basis of what the scientists say - will progressively take the measures and in relation to the proposals that you have made - which are a little more advanced than we have decided so far - and for people in the health system and for the funds that will be given exceptionally. You have placed yourself on the joint declaration by Turkey - the European Union. We fully agree with what you have said. Of course, you know very well that the Prime Minister has already put this issue as a key debate on 26 March. I would say that the first part - which is Greece's position - is that Erdogan's Turkey should withdraw the troops from the border. Prime Minister "organised mass attempt at illegal entry into European territory", and will be one of the key issues they will discuss on the 26th of the month. The second is - you said it yourself - that Turkey should take the immigrants back from the centres that will have come to the mainland so that the islands can be dismantled and that is how we aim to turn around the eighty thousand people in Turkey. The third is to establish joint patrols of FRONTEX now in the territorial waters of Turkey, not just as the Port House is preventing it from doing its job properly. Obviously, if this meeting of the two European leaders in Turkey were to be held, it would be a mistake, as it was a mistake, for Greece to be absent and from the summit that took place on Libya. That, however, is what you realise that it is not entirely up to us. Greece is present and responsible, claiming and effective for both national and European interests. Mr Kamines said - and he coincided with his position with Mrs Adamopoulos, who was, of course, a click above - that the parliamentary majority covers some para-states, even - even some who are imported nazis or people who come to take advantage of this situation. That's not true. The Greek Government is doing everything in its power to identify such cases and also Greeks who are thus a little more tempered and cause problems. Whereever you have specific complaints, it is open to the government to say them, as is of course the prosecutors, but to be sure that the position is very specific. The border guards - Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou said so on another level, of course - the Army, the National Guard and the Police. We've been on it since the beginning. This is the government's official position. This is the position, of course, of the New Democracy. It would be advisable not to drift into these explosions, say, social rights and democracy, because our nation today represented by the government is doing its job very well. I also wanted to reply to Mr Kamine on abuse of violence. You raised the issue of the abuse of violence by police officers. Wherever such an incident has been created, the police and the ministry have made progress so that it can be investigated and, of course, we condemn it both the government and our prolongation and the physical leadership of the police.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u108	I talked about the use of weapons.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u109	The use of weapons has taken place in one of the events you mentioned. It was within the legality of what man did, because as you have seen, he was brutally beaten by others who should be in prison. But let us not get into this dialogue now. I think our position is clear. As to the part that Mr Velopoulos has put forward, I think he has been lured and violated once again open doors. It is clear that the government is dealing with all those who undermine national and political efforts, either with their actions, or with their failures, or even with their statements, dismissing them, if they are in a position of responsibility. We do this over time, democratically, nationally and always responsibly. In particular, Mrs Telalian was not a minister's adviser, as the President of the Greek Solution said. He's an expert. It's been a long time at the State Department. She is head of the Legal Service and, as you have seen at the moment, she is no longer in her place, because she just couldn't help with this national effort. As far as the issue of the militia is concerned, my dear fellow Member, you have said that before, you have told the committee as well than I have seen in the Minutes - I want to tell you that the concept of militia and its use are not provided for in Greek law. There's not that thing. Furthermore, no matter how much we have searched, we cannot find this to be the case in the other countries of the European Union. This results from at least the research that I and my colleagues have done. We have found it in Switzerland, which is a special country, of course, in relation to its situation. And there, however, it is predicted by the Constitution that some should go as benches - it is a Constitution of Indicators - who have the responsibility of civil protection. So I think that in a country that is coordinated, like Greece, with effective - unless you think they are not effective - Armed Forces and Police, you are simply trying to create impressions that really do not need us. I would like to say a few words about the bill, although it is a matter that concerns me very much, and in my political capacity as a citizen of this country and, above all, as a father of three children. But I don't have time and I don't want to abuse time. I think that the directives that have been discussed today bring about the right amendments to national legislation on the control of the acquisition and disposal of weapons. The bill, which I think our rapporteur, Mr Melas, has presented to us fully, has won the consent of this House and the committee. I think most of the proposals from Mr Kalamatiano's moderate position have been heard, as have those of the Change Movement. It was mainly in the direction of stricter penalties and I think it was right. If I am not mistaken, the only distortion in this consensus within the Greek Parliament is the Greek solution to whether there should be continuity in the Greek state. In other words, he accused us that this directive came and was in the drawer of SYRIZA for two years and we are implementing it. If the Greek Solution considers that there should be no continuity in the state, it is its right. We were also accused of a homogeneous policy sequence in the European Union. This is how we understand our course in Europe, and I think that this is how our partners see our common course, in order to deal with issues that are not just about our country. The encouragement, therefore, is to drive those who ultimately want and those who can society in front of us and in this area, to combat the idea that possession of a weapon is a legitimate objective. So this bill is a step in this very direction of restricting the use of arms and I am glad - very few exceptions - that the vast majority vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u110	Thank you. Mr. Minister would like the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, I would like once again to thank the climate which prevailed throughout the entire debate on these arrangements for incorporating a European directive and to say that it is the will of the state very clearly in terms of its willingness to be strict both in terms of possession and in relation to the use by anyone who is not entitled to own and carry a weapon. Of course, the criticalness of the moments that the country is going through has also been stressed by all the governments of Parliament. It is very important that at this time the Greek Parliament sends a message both inside for the citizens and abroad for the international community, a message of unspeakable national unity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u112	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, would anyone want to take a second time?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u113	I would like to, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u114	I too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, we would all like to take a second place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u116	I knew you'd come up with an understanding that you'd...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, we have said that we will not talk unless anyone has second thoughts. But now that some people have spoken...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u118	Oh, you've come to an agreement, but the understanding's changed. Okay, I'm fine with it. So Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou has the floor in the order of the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. I won't talk much. That's why I'd rather talk to you than talk to you. Minister, we are not just here to denounce, but also to welcome the government's positive response. The legislative improvement you have made in Article 19 is a very positive move. I have also pointed out to you - not only the representatives of SYRIZA and KINAL - that there should be an increase in responsibility. Well, you have done and listened to this point, because it is fully in line with the letter and spirit of the Criminal Code itself. We would, of course, like to see some others done, if not improvements, additions. However, since it is in line with the Community directive, I will repeat the call I and my colleagues have made for a legislative initiative on the part of the Government to tighten up the licensing framework for the possession of weapons, to establish a serious and effective framework for training of those who possess the weapons. That is what the relevant bodies have pointed out to you. From there on, in relation to the reports I made in the Minutes, these documents are available to the House in order to determine whether or not these news is false. In no case did I blame the government for the existence of these paramilitaries. Therefore, the Government may examine these documents, put them in the light of the public prosecutors and lay the blame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, too. Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall use the dentistry to answer what has been said just now by the government, represented by the Government representative, Mr Lebanese.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u122	The government is represented by the government and is located at ministerial offices. Mr Lebanese and other parliamentary representatives represent their parties, as do you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u123	It is a constant tactic of the Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, after hours, since the President of the Greek Solution has of course spoken, because he often considers that the production process is here and that the political leaders must be present every day. He's answering after hours. He obviously wants to work on it, take his party line himself, answer it accordingly. Firstly, Mr Lebanese told us that he did not tell the truth, Mr Velopoulos. But Mr Lebanese himself said that this lady was the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs legal services. So, how high, important does this lady have? You said she was the head of the State Department's legal services. Kyriakos the Velopoulos didn't say anything different. She didn't say she was the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Secondly, Mr Lebanese, since she did not have a key position, and her opinion did not count there, why should you know that - at the meeting with the representatives of the parties at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was this Mrs rather than Mr Teddy answering to the representatives of the parties?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u124	I said he wasn't Mr. Treasury's advisor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u125	Why was this lady, who did not play any role, the last hole in the junk than you said a moment ago and did not have a key position, as you said? Don't move my hand, Mr. Levant. You said he wasn't in some important position. You also said that she was the head of legal services. And I'll let you know that the parties' representatives at the meeting for information at the State Department was answered by the lady. So he was in a good position. It took you eight months. I'll say the same again that Kyriakos Velopoulos said. You admit the mistake without 'but'. You say 'we've made a mistake'. Don't go save it. It took you eight months to understand that this lady doesn't. Now let's go to the part of the militia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u126	Why were we wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u127	Obviously, you made a mistake. You obviously removed her because she didn't do her job right. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u128	Mr Colleagues, firstly, you do not go away, so do not take responsibility. Secondly, let us continue the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u129	Let's go to the part of the militia. I am pleased that, once again, you have dealt with at least one of our proposals, you have asked your people, you have looked, etc. I would like to say to you, Mr Levane, that the militia first is for peace, not just for war. We want active citizens, familiar with the regions, who can contribute to moments of crisis, such as Eye, who know the paths, the escape route, to coordinate the world. They don't replace the Armed Forces - I said it in my report - neither the Greek Army nor the Greek Police. They're helping. They're active citizens, especially trained, useful. Secondly, Switzerland, as you rightly said, has it. I need to tell you one more thing. Some European countries do not have it. What were you waiting for? From Luxembourg to a militia? We have enemies. Greece has neighbors nervous and contiguous. What do we have to do with the other European countries? We have enemies, Mr. Lebanese, and they're not provided for in the Constitution? I'm sorry, aren't you, government? Legislation. Make a special legislative framework and bring it in. Create it if it doesn't exist. That's why people voted for you and you're government. What does it say 'no', 'do not do'? Are you serious? Make it up and talk it away from ideology, away from fears of words. We want active citizens who can help our country. We are not Liechtenstein or Luxembourg. Unfortunately, we're with neighbors around - not to say what neighbors we have now - who don't know where to catch it and where to leave it. We cannot whistle indifferently or have inactive and sleeping citizens. We want active citizens, knowledgeable people who can help our country at times of crisis and at times of peace. The militia is peace, not just war. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u130	Mr. Kamin, will you speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u131	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Covenant, will you speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u133	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u134	Mr Dionysius Kalamatianos has the floor for five minutes from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am starting directly with the bill under discussion. We, as we have said, shall vote 'yes' in principle and on the articles, except for Article 2 and Article 7 in which we shall vote 'the present', because Article 2 shows that the import of arms from traders does not require permission, and the previous plan did not exist. It is also mentioned below in the case that for the import by traders of devices or installations intended to illuminate the gun's shots, stoppers and fillings, etc. no authorisation is required. Article 7 states that there is no need for a European Union institutions, bodies, missions or agencies to be licensed to carry out joint operations with the Greek authorities or to participate in European Border and Guard operations if their armaments are legally held by them under the national law of the country of origin. The previous plan, as it was from November in consultation, said that the country's police authority gives us this permission. So we are voting 'present' in these two articles and accepting the rest. Let us stress that there has been a constructive dialogue, both in the committees and here in the House today, on the issues of the draft law. We welcome the adoption of our proposals, as we have seen in the legislative improvements, the clarifications for the Objective Federation of Greece, the issue of specialisation and reference to the External Guard and Port Service and to customs services, which states that the provisions in force as appropriate are applicable. These improvements are positive. The provisions on the stricter treatment of penalties in Articles 11 and 19. As my colleague referred to the necessary consensus on the refugee issue, we say that there must also be this consensus on this critical issue. We firstly, our President Alexis Tsipras and the SYRIZA Political Secretariat and officials told us about national understanding in refugee - immigration. We stressed our availability, that we are ready to put back on the preparation and implementation of a national plan to tackle and manage this crisis. But the government must also put aside arrogant behaviour, idealism, authoritarianism and repression as our islanders have recently experienced. Unequivocal statements such as those of the Government representative Mr. Petsa, who inadmissiblely stated that SYRIZA was supposed to be Erdogan's "syrian horse". Such statements obviously did not help with homogeneity, but they are a rhetorical division. They are falsifying the truth in an unacceptable manner. SYRIZA seeks national unity and is a progressive and patriotic political force. It proved it through its governance, in which the country's international position was strengthened, the national patriotic interest was best served, with a claimive and active foreign policy, with alliances that everyone agrees to offer huge geopolitical benefits in the country. And we would point out, ladies and gentlemen, the danger that, with its rhetorical division following officials of the Government and of the New Democracy, racism, intolerance and extreme behaviour, we are unfortunately seeing the snake of fascism and Nazism reappearing from his egg. So let each one assume his responsibilities. The government and the New Democracy must condemn such extremist statements and behaviour if they really want national unity, which is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u136	Thank you. Mr. Mela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I should like to point out that it was a production process which was all done in connection with the drafting of the bill, both here and in the committees, where the institutions came and made a number of comments, from which comments from both the parties' bodies and the rapporteurs - as far as they were - were accepted. So we are moving towards broad acceptance, I could say, of this bill and of the articles amending Law 2168/1993, but also of the incorporation of the European directives in this draft law. As far as the improvements you have given us, Minister, I would like to point out the number six legislative improvements you have brought - which my colleague from the Greek Solution spoke before - and that it is necessary in terms of the aiming dictators to point out that red dot should be used, because it is something that really helps during the business process to ensure that there is safer, that is, planning and targeting. As far as the number 11 and number 12 legislative improvements are concerned, I should like to say that, in number 12, the rapporteur also pointed out it - and in Article 19, we are tightening the penalties for illegal arms imports, but also for those who change arms, because the logic of this draft law and the arrangements that come are to increase the security of citizens, but also to tackle the crimes of organised crime and terrorism. I have also heard during the debate in plenary and from Mr Kamine and from Mr Kalamiano and from Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, if I am not mistaken - or you have mentioned it in an earlier debate - about the phenomena of the misuse of weapons by police officers. I think that this has become clear and clear from the standpoint of our own, but also of the government and leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection and of the Greek Police: as far as every individual is concerned - and I stress the 'individual' phenomenon - in which we see that there is a misuse of the weapon, EL.AS. It controls these cases and we do not let and we are not the first to allow a discount for the safety of citizens. So, as we cannot say for individual phenomena, we must use them to weaken the Greek Police, because a few - one, two, three - are misusing the weapon, so we say that these phenomena are being controlled and we are controlling them and we are drawing conclusions and strengthening the security of the citizen. So the same applies to national matters. What do I mean by that? I would like to say this: as there are individual cases where you refer to them and tell us and look at them, so we are talking about individual cases, which are statements which are problematic at the moment. At this difficult moment in our country, because we need to face an asymmetrical threat, we ask you to control them, restrict them and condemn them. This will highlight the real central line, as you say, of SYRIZA, given by Officer Alexis Tsipras, that "we are next to you and we will back off if necessary". And you should condemn these voices and join us, together with the entire National Representation, in a national agreement to tackle this asymmetrical threat and propaganda that we receive from the means controlled in Turkey by Erdogan. And I'm going to stand by what you said a moment ago, Mr. Kalamaiane, that with some choices we might make, or with some omissions, we cultivate the snake of Nazism. A moment ago, Mr. Erdogan made some statements again and tried to identify our country with the Nazis. So this is something that we should not cultivate, and what we need to remind Mr Erdogan is that in World War II Turkey conspired with the nazis, not Greece. Greece fought them and was on the right side of history. With our positions, with our statements in the public debate, all of us representatives of the parties must express themselves in such a way that at these critical moments we are on the right side of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u138	Mr Kamines has asked for the floor for a minute on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. I do not want to miss any doubts as to what we have said about the unnecessary use of weapons on the part of the institutions of the Security Council. Of course, we must, in some cases, have post-examination disciplinary control, but then sometimes it may be too late. I insisted on all my speeches about the systematic training of police officers in the use of arms and stressed two pounds. The first is that there is an absolute secrecy on the subject of conservative education, because the ministerial decision that provides for how, when and why, and I do not understand that, has not been published and, secondly, that a large number of police have been recruited over the last few years. There may be the legitimate concern of the government and the desire to get them out on the road, but here it should be careful not to take people on the road who have not been trained for how to use their weapon. In this visual light, we have touched on the incidents that have seen the light of publicity in recent years. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, I would like the floor for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u141	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u142	With regard to what the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Melas, said, we and the committees you have attended and my position was that the Greek police are doing their job properly. We have mentioned specific cases that really need to be investigated in the sense of education. We stressed this, Mr Secretary-General, as you will remember, in the committees. For example, the thousand five hundred special guards were trained for two months and we had such incidents. That is what we need to do in time, that is what we need to be careful about their education. As far as the drafting and implementation of the national plan is concerned, we have been in favour of helping this national effort. I also referred to rhetoric and deeds that might help to hatch the snake’s egg. I didn't blame a convict. They have also been heard by Mr Lebanese and by you, I would say right and mild. But others aren't like that. Another thing, then, is the rhetoric that can help to this and another that I blame on this issue as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Kalamatiano, thank you very much. The Minister has the floor and we are finishing the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u144	Finally, I should like to mention - because there has been a lot of talk lately about some individual incidents and about what has to do with the Greek Police - and to assure the honourable Members that both the Ministry and the leadership of the Greek Police over time demonstrates the sensitivity it needs around this issue. It really is a matter that concerns us. It's a constant effort to train the police. The individual cases are controlled with the severity and depth to which they must be addressed. In conclusion, however, I would really like to see the Greek police fighting very much, both in Evros and in the islands, feel - and feel - that the entire Greek people are close to him, to congratulate them from this position, publicly, on this effort. The training that has been shown by the temptation and high professionalism that faces this great threat that our country is taking today to Evros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u145	A further discussion on the principle of the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection is hereby declared as follows: ‘Amendment of provisions of Law 2168/1993 (A'147) on issues relating to arms, ammunition, explosives, explosives and other provisions’, harmonisation of Greek legislation by Directive (EU) 2017/853 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending Council Directive 91/477/EEC on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons and the adoption of the necessary additional measures for the implementation of European Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/2403’. We move on to vote on the principle of the law, the articles and the whole of them, and they will be voted on separately. We note that the vote includes the beginning of the bill, twenty-three articles, the hotel article and the entire bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure you have passed all the articles, the hotel article and the entire bill. After registering your vote, you have the possibility to check it or to revise it by the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u146	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u147	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u148	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: ‘Amendment of provisions of the Law. Regulation (EC) No 2168/1993 (A'147) of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending Council Directive 91/477/EEC on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons and the adoption of the necessary additional measures for the implementation of the European Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/2403, has been adopted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u150	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-11-S1-commons.u151	With the agreement of the House at 14.30 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 12 March 2019 at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate; and (b) legislative work: only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "Trade marks - Incorporation of Directive (EU) 2015/2436 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to trade marks and Directive 2004/48/EC on the enforcement of intellectual property rights and other provisions", in accordance with the agenda.
