ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 17-6-2020, the minutes of its PX meetings were ratified by the Bureau on Tuesday 16 June 2020 with regard to the vote on the entire draft law of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum: ‘Principle of the Agreement on the seat between the Hellenic Republic and the European Asylum Support Office (EAASO) on the operation of the EASO Operational Office in Greece’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on REQUESTS. In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the questions to be discussed. There are five questions in total. We begin with the first with a number 798/10-6-2020 top-level question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the West Attica of the New Democracy Mr Athanasios Bourras to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Extension of the declaration of the Municipal Unit of the Municipality of Elefsina in an emergency." The Deputy Minister of Citizen Protection, Mr. Nikolaos Chardalias, will answer. Mr. Bourra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I take this opportunity to congratulate him in particular as a Greek citizen and, lastly, as a politician, on his great contribution in dealing with this coronary pandemic. I wish him strength, because the work that he has to do in general is important, through crisis management, even before summer. Secondly, I want to wish him many years to answer topical questions and I have the honour and feel myself happy and lucky that his first answer is given to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u3	Get to the question, why did you lose a minute of congratulations?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u4	All right, Mr. President, let me come in. As you know, Minister, and he knows about it, on November 15, 2017, the great disaster took place in the wider region of Western Attica, centred on Mandra and Magula and Nea Peramos, where with decisions - so as not to delay my tabling of them in the Minutes - the region was declared more generally, Mandra, Magula and Nea Peramos, in a state of emergency. [[At this point, Vice-President Athanasios Bouras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Parliament Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] Then, in order not to trouble the House and to approach time, Mr President, not to answer it, I must tell you that extensions have been made so that the problems that have been created can be tackled. I am also in favour of this destructive flood, and we have also had twenty-four dead. In the area the appropriate infrastructure had not been made. So a reconstruction and a plan to deal with and a future phenomena began, and the projects that had to be done have not yet begun or started much later, consistently - I will not say and I will not mention, you know them from your previous status - to give successive extensions and while they were in the Magulas region on 26 and 27 July 2018, we have had a new strong rainfall with flooding phenomena. I stress that in July 2019, there was also the earthquake within Attica that stirred Attica, focused on Magula, resulting in many problems, disasters in infrastructure, houses and, above all, burdening the psychology of the world, who saw the previous problem, had it in mind and saw the new one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u5	Get to the question now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u6	What I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, is that the extension that should be given to the other municipalities - was given to Mandra and New Peramos. Mandra and Magula, if anyone doesn't know the area, he can't see who it is. The street of Athens - Thebes, the old highway, separates them while not separate them. The streams that affect Mandra affect Magula, therefore, the municipal authority then on the eve of the municipal elections, that is, last May, which had to make the extension process, as the other municipalities did, namely Mandra and the Municipality of Megarons for New Peramos...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Vice President, please come to the question. You have to give the good example if you're underneath.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u8	Okay, thank you, Mr. President. I'm done, but you didn't let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u9	Finish your question in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u10	It's okay. I'll finish my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u11	Good. Mr. Chardale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, first of all I thank you for your wishes and good words. The question of extending the proclamation of the municipal unit of the Municipality of Elefsina in an emergency has a legal and an essential issue. First of all, you quite rightly said that the proclamation of the area in emergency was completed on May 15, 2019. Since then, despite the earthquake of 19 July 2019, no request had been made. It would not be possible to request an extension because you know that there should be no time gap between the two periods. However, nine months after the expiry of the extension and seven months after the earthquake came a very specific request, which requested an extension after nine months of the previous declaration in an emergency. You realise that neither legal nor practically could that stand. However, a procedure was initiated as to whether the area should be declared emergency again, with the data available a year ago. This process is a process described by law, a process that does not only concern a request from the municipality of Magulas, but should also be accompanied by necessary documents. Any catastrophe is certified through the CFP reports and through the autopsy reports available. Until yesterday, the Directorate for Emergency Needs of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection did not have the necessary papers to reopen the proclamation. The procedure is a process described and in any case comes from the relevant document of the Region of Attica. In other words, the municipalities submit to the regions concerned, the regions assess this request and are either positive or not recommended to the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. The General Secretariat for Civil Protection may either declare the region itself or authorize the regional authority concerned to make such a declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Bourra, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u14	Minister, I should like to finish my prototype and immediately enter second. I must tell you and stress that no project has been completed. Not only has it been completed, many have not started, many are in regional planning. The works are common: The stream of Sures, the stream of Agia Catherine, the stream of Small Katerini and a series of other rations, all poured into Sures, in order to end up in the bay of Elefsina. They haven't been settled. I do not know whether people have to pay for the uncertainties of those who lead any responsibility, which they may have from the people. So once this procedure has come to an end - which the other two municipalities have received - Mandra and Nea Peramos, without any new presumption in the sense that they are unresolved all those issues which have created the catastrophic and murderous flood - the world will be in danger. I would like to ask you for the sake of equal treatment provided for in the Constitution. If the mayor did not make it then, in May 2019, in a document like the other municipalities did in order to extend it, we cannot throw it to the citizens who do not know and - as you know - and to some children, students who have a similar benefit, are also classmates and friends. I, for many decades, do not know exactly where Magula stops and where Mandra begins. I should like to sincerely ask you to look at this in a legitimate way so that it can be settled. Because, I remind you again, the earthquake has come. But who doesn't remember the earthquake that took place a year ago, that is, July 2017? I would also remind you, in order to help you take into account Directive 2007/60/EC, which pays particular attention to the preliminary risk assessment, but also to the drawing-up of risk maps, including Magulas, is on the risk maps and the municipality of Mandras. Finally, let me tell you that on November 17, 2019, the open procedure was declared, amounting to EUR 1757.000, for a project to demarcate Suras, Agia Katerini - knows the world that happened the floods - without including the streams Small Katerini, etc. After all this, Minister, I want to invoke your particular sensitivity, to invoke your long-term progress in local government, to invoke the fact that you know very well about which region we are talking about. We are talking about the wider region of West Attica, and in particular about the Triasios Field, which hosts 40% of the country's heavy industry, is home to the wider area of one and only one landfill and many other activities that are beneficial to the country. That is why I would ask you warmly to address the issue positively and to find a solution so that these fellow citizens of Magulas also feel that they are treated equally and are not responsible for omissions of others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u15	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u16	First of all, we need to clarify a few things so that no misunderstandings arise. The sensitivity of the state, and especially of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection in West Athens and the wider region, I believe that it is also demonstrated by the overall design of the Fire Service, but also by the competent authorities, the strengthening of our stadiums, the strengthening of our fire stations and by means and by procedures that will also find us ready in the next anti-missile. Let's get something straight. There was no selective extension in Peramos and Mandra. The procedures to be followed were followed, the recommendations that had to be made, and the Secretariat-General was quite right, after the relevant suggestion made by the Region of Attica, to extend the area concerned. Now there is a huge issue. What's the big deal? Seven months after the earthquake and nine months after the previous extension, the area is requested to be declared as an emergency. And say something else. I understand the need for some projects to go ahead, but it should be stressed because we are in Parliament and these issues should be rationalised in terms of how we communicate them. It is not necessary to delimit the stream, to be preached in an emergency. A delimitation can take ten years to do it. What does it mean? That the area must be in emergency for ten years? All the works that were contracted have gone ahead. There is no new work that has been filed. And if there is any such work, which must go through more flexible procedures, it can, in accordance with Article 42(3) of the Law 4662 which we voted on here, with the Committee on Risk Assessment, be regarded as an emergency and proceed with the proceedings. However, our intention is in any case to be useful, but at the same time to follow a process of legitimacy. The General Secretariat remains ready for any request accompanied by the necessary self-consciousness and the necessary request from the Attica Region to always respond on the basis of legality and always on the basis of our willingness to deal with real issues. The issues relating to West Athens, the issues relating to Attica are issues that are of immediate priority to us. What needs to be understood, however, and I understand that with the enormous experience and interest you have in the region everything must be part of a legal, operational, organisational framework with which we, too, will have a good witness and at the same time we will be able to serve real data, real purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. We move on with the third under number 812-15-2020 in the first cycle of MP B2' West Athens, Mera25, Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Direct restoration of unfair cuts in the allowances and benefits of disabled people". The State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Domna Michailidou, will answer. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Secretary, we have already discussed this in this Chamber on micro-retirement and allowances, but what has been done in the middle of a coronary has been shocking. You call a case-law, which you have not named, you have not told us what this case-law is and OPEKA is cutting the benefits provided to micro-retired people through a coronary. We are talking about eight thousand people who have been deprived of the basics for their survival. In fact, you told the committee yesterday that you were protecting citizens by freezing the controls of the OPECA when the result was just eight thousand people to be found without the basics. We would like you to tell us what this case-law is about, which you are describing, that it stipulates that the benefit of pension benefits cannot be benefited from an early retirement benefit. However, this caselaw may not be relevant to disabled people at all. I want you to tell us exactly what it is to be able to read it and judge both us and our Greek citizens and our people with disabilities. Also, when Mr Gerapetritis comes out and says that he does not make any difference to the legislation on people with disabilities, that he has contradictions, that he is multi-dimensional and needs special intervention on the matter, it is obvious that even if there was such a case-law, the legislator may fall to the same weaknesses as Mr Gerapetritis, in other words, the inability to interpret this legislation. What is clear, however, is that we have the UN convention decision that clearly states that disabled people must be entitled, regardless of whether they are micro-retired, that is to say they are micro-retired, whether they are disabled or scientists, that is to say, whether they are entitled to this pension or the benefits, because they are in a very unfavourable position. It is not about disabled people with other categories of citizens who can reach the same category, especially in a country like Greece that is so hostile to disabled people. I'll be very interested in your answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u19	Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Pinheiro, as you already know from the first moment of the health crisis, the government as a whole, but in particular the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, has been working intensively and responsibly so that everyone in need of the state will not be deprived of this necessary help. In this context, we have given priority to beneficiaries of social benefits by speeding up self-justice and automatic expansion of their allowances. In particular, we have simplified the bureaucratic procedures, and in particular we have withdrawn the requirement to submit a new application and the need for a physical presence, so as to avoid co-existence between the beneficiaries. In this way we have effectively defended the health, but also the dignity of the beneficiaries of social benefits. Now, particularly for our fellow citizens with disabilities, the conditions of the pandemic may have changed our everyday lives, but they have not changed our political priorities. The big government bet, but also myself, was not left unprotected. So the six specific measures that we have taken in this period are proof of this. Firstly, we shielded our closed structures hosting our disabled fellow citizens. How did we do that? With five hundred new recruitments, we increased by 1/3 their potential. Secondly, we have incorporated all families with disabilities without regard to age. Thirdly, we work with the National Deaf Foundation and the Ministry of Health for the immediate placement of thirty free interpreters for deaf fellow citizens starting from the reference hospitals. Fourthly, we are working with the OAED to ensure that beneficiaries of the Social Tourism Programme and to integrate disabled people with higher moleculosis into it, so that they are 100% beneficiaries of the programme, but also to ensure that they can receive social tourism every year. Fifth, we continued the team's meetings and the staff assistant through teleconferencing, our Ministry's main priority. We continued not because we understand our fellow citizens with disabilities as pre-school receivers, we do not understand them like this, it is a backward and degrading approach for people with disabilities. Finally, and very importantly, we have extended for three months the payment of disability pensions and allowances as a result of the suspension of operation of the CSDP health committees. I now come to the essence of your question, to which I shall give more details in my dentistry. The reduction in the amount of the allowance to which you refer is due to a precise detailed application of the principle of legality, i.e. the rules of law in force concerning specific cases, which have been identified in the context of administrative control and cross-checking. As you know - and you yourself said - the competent body is OPECA. According to KYA FEK B 5855/2018, it was established that from 1-1-2019, OPEK grants a total of 10 promotional cash benefits to disabled persons as defined by previous law of 2018. Let me point out here that neither the terms nor the conditions nor the amount of benefits to be paid to the OHIM have been changed. The only thing that was amended by the 2018 CSR was that these allowances will be granted electronically. Let me stress here that in February 2020 and for the first time in such an extent that the payment of allowances was unlawfully controlled by means of electronic cross-checks with other digital databases in the public sector. After ten years we have not amended anything and have simply applied case law to a very large extent. In our view this is a very important step for two reasons. Firstly, there is more efficient use of the resources available to finance the benefits and, secondly, good administration and equal treatment of the administrations are ensured. In any event, in such a case, OPEKA as a competent body is bound by the legislative framework, judicial decisions, but also by interpretative circulars and instructions of the supervisory authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u21	Here you go, Mr Arseni.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Secretary, you have not answered what this case-law is. We have a right to know it, it is more than just a decision, so that we too can judge and take the necessary steps. You say that it is more efficient in this way, in fact, social policy. We really share poverty to be honest. You say you want to bring justice to who survives with 180 euros, who survives with 300 euros, who survives with more. In any case, what you are doing is illegal and I will read to you because you say that OPEK must obey the case law, it must also obey the decisions of the Citizens' Counselor. The decision of July 2019 reads: “Promoting allowances aim at the needs arising from disability, irrespective of the financial situation of the disabled person. In the case of programmes to deal with extreme poverty, such as Social Solidarity Income, at the same time as receiving a disability benefit, it shall not prevent the grant of the benefit. On the other hand, the invalidity pension is taken into account even if it is a lower amount than that of the preferential allowance. In such cases, the actual disability needs are not recognised and there is unequal treatment between essential identical cases.’ So the Counsel says that in the case of pensioners, we also need to continue the allowance, because we are talking about amounts which are funny, given the situation these people find themselves in. And that's not all I'm telling you. The National Blind Federation tells you so. They said so yesterday in committee. The online team tells you, with its coordinator, Mr. Vardakis. I would also ask you to call on OPEKA to be lawful with the decisions of the Citizens' Counsellor and to restore these allowances to the disabled citizens, who - to be honest - do not 'go out' even with the small, minimal pensions and the allowance. Be honest, because when we cut off - this government cut off - about 1 billion out of the tax burdens of the very high incomes and gives these micro-resources to those who really need it, that's where the elephant is in the room. Obviously you cannot deal with it, but you are dealing with what you can, so that we can be as a state in accordance with the United Nations Convention on Disabled Persons, be as a state in accordance with the decisions of the Citizens' CouncU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u23	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, let me go out of text, because it is a matter that is a terrible priority for me. Not only have we embraced the UN treaty, but it's a flag for us. Without wanting to play my Ministry, we are - the administration of the Ministry of Labour - from the very few cases over the time we have received the congratulations of the Citizens' Counselor for our policies. So if we want to do anything that's the opposite of what you said, we should be illegal. Why did these tests of the OPECA take place? They were done precisely to ensure legality, but also to ensure equality for all beneficiaries of benefits. So what's going on? The case-law which has been in place for the last decade - to be clear - essentially defines the case-file for cases where we are talking about, the following: that, except for the minimum of exceptions, which have to do with parental pensions, which have been granted precisely for the reason of parentality in cases of disability and in any case are not those cases, a beneficiary of the ten-year-old benefits paid by our Ministry for disability cannot receive a disability pension at the same time. So OPEKA has been coming to implement a case-law, which has been in existence for a decade, with a KLA which actually provided for the electronic cross-checking of any irregularity and illegality. What about blind lawyers? There are three counts. The first category of blind lawyers is blind lawyers working. The blind scientific lawyer, who works, receives a reward from his work - whether he is a wage earner or himself a self-employed person - and receives from our Ministry an allowance of EUR 697. This is the first case. The second case is for the retired blind lawyer, who is not working. In this case, the retired blind lawyer who does not work takes 100% of his pension and half of the allowance, that is, half of the EUR 697. So from these accusations, the first and second, we have heard no complaints about the checks carried out. What's the third charge? Is it the charge of blind pensioners working for them, so what are they entitled, in accordance with this case-law? They are entitled, like blind retired lawyers who do not work, to 100% of their pensions, and that is why they have to thank the Minister, who this year spent the 100% increase in pension if they work. So they have an increase in their income, from 70% to 100% of the pension. They also have 100% of their remuneration as retired lawyers who work and, like retired lawyers who do not work, 50% of the allowance. That's what the law stipulates, and that's exactly what the OPEKA's controls cross-checks crossed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u25	We shall proceed with a group of three questions which will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Makis Voridis. We begin with our second question under number 810/15-2020 in the first cycle of the F Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The damage suffered by the agricultural producers of apples and cherry trees Zagora, Puri, Makryrachi and Anili in Magnesia". Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. The intense quartzing at the end of May, namely on May 26 at the villages Zgo, Puri, Makryrachi and Anilio of Pelion, in the Magnesia Prefecture, resulted in great catastrophes in tree-growing apples and cherry trees. As a result of this quartzfall, beyond the natural disaster, it is also the economic destruction of hundreds of non-producers, but also of cherry producers. It should be noted that this is the third year in which this quarantine region is affected, of course, due to the lack of prevention and treatment measures, i.e. anti-hair protection measures in the region. And a second note is that the compensation paid for the previous year was minimal, it was crumbs. In fact, for the 2019 disasters, ELGA still owes 35% of the compensation. On the basis of this development, we are asking the Minister, Mr President, what direct action he will take to make immediate, rapid and fair assessments of the damage suffered by the producers of the Zagora and the surrounding villages and, of course, to compensate 100% of their damage to farmers, producers of apples and cherry. The latter is about what measures the government or the Ministry will take to install anti-hail protection systems in the specific areas which, as I have said before, have been marked every year with severe damage and heavy rainfall, resulting in catastrophes. Thirdly, the well-known issue, which we are reinstated with every question, of course, is what the government and the Ministry are also prepared to do, respectively, in relation to the ELGA regulation, in order to insure and compensate 100% for production from all natural disasters and diseases, respectively, and plant and animal capital.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u27	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to the specific issue you raise, which concerns the heavy quartzing and rainfall that occurred on 26 May 2020 on various crops, as you described them, the necessary points have been made. Twenty-four announcements were made. Producers' declarations are submitted. So far nine hundred sixty declarations have been submitted. The final date for declarations shall be 17-6-2020. The work of assessments has already begun before the end of submission of declarations. At this time, the estimated step of the branch of ELGA Larissa is performing personalised assessments on cherry and at the same time supervisory markings are carried out on the apples for the extent of the damage. Following the growing interventions of producers regarding the perfume of apples expected to take place during the current month, ELGA will carry out personalised assessments in accordance with its Regulation. In addition, for the timely completion of the assessment process, the branch of ELGA Larissa, under whose jurisdiction the Regional Unit of Magnesia, is, is soon to be served with ten additional seasonal geotechnics in accordance with the current legislation. There will also be an amendment that we will bring to Parliament for approval in order to make these recruitments in a bill that will be discussed, but not in the Ministry of Rural Development, but this procedure must be done. That's what I'm talking about. In relation to the compensation you have referred to, I will give you some information not only about the regional section concerned, but it is important to know and what the amounts paid are, so that there are no impressions. As regards the uncovered insurance causes, i.e. hails, rainfall and windstorms that occurred during 2019, mainly from June 1919 to December 2019, on various trees in the wider region of the Magnesia Regional Unit, the necessary labels were made by ELGA's geotechnical services, hundreds of fourteen announcements were submitted and a thousand two hundred eight damage statements were made. The assessment work has been completed and compensation has begun. To date, compensation of EUR 227 000 has been paid to insurance producers. The ELGA has so far paid the country's producers compensation for the damage of 2019 amounting to EUR 120,453,249. So with regard to the further questions you ask me, I think I will reserve my answer to my dentistry. In other words, with regard to the most structural and institutional issues relating to the ELGA which do not concern either the Regional Unit of Magnesia, but on the issue you raise, that is, the 100% compensation and anti-purpose protection, I shall refer to my dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u29	Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have listened carefully to what you have said, although the brief duration of our debate - not just of our own here, but, in general, of the current questions - does not allow Members to be given rapid information on the information you give. However, the question remains - and I think you know it - and as far as the information you can say is concerned. Is it true or is it not that they were not fully compensated for 2019, even for those for which they should be compensated under the ELGA Regulation? And I am referring to the specific producers in the region of Pelion, Zagora and surrounding villages. Do they or do they not fall by 35%? We report 35%, because these figures have given us. Could be 30%, 20% or 25%. Therefore, they have not received the compensation that ELGA should have granted to them for 2019. We are now coming to this new disaster in this period of time. You said that the checks were carried out, that they would be completed and that the ELGA would be strengthened by staff in the next period. We had discussed in the last bill you brought, that it would obviously not be permanent staff, but contract staff. The fixed-term contracts promoted by corporation across the range of labour relations and services not only in ELA but also in the wider public sector and across the state are an issue in terms of the functioning of ELGA. The question now, as far as apples are concerned and most of the production in the region, the so-called apples of the Zagora is concerned, and in conjunction with the timely one - what we put to the question - and, if you like, the assessment procedure, is that the production of apples is subject to a dilution at the very time, so that we can produce a quantity that farmers are counting on. However, if this assessment is not made in time and farmers enter their trees, they do the dilution and they bear extra costs following this disaster and the ELGA comes after that, they will naturally have no benefit but they will also be charged at huge cost, because the dilutions require large sums of money. As in our question, the issues of the weather phenomena and disasters that agricultural crops are subject to are not the only problems that farmers have to face. Farmers have to deal with both production costs and high taxation, the high premiums of the ECA, the carpets and they go by saying. So you understand that the mixture is becoming explosive as far as their future is concerned, because we are not talking about large farmers, but about a quite respected number of farmers who have small lots in the context of the ZAGORIN cooperative. So one issue is about the prospects and financial data of farmers because of the disaster, but also about everything else. Perhaps the Ministry should, therefore, see some aid for the help of farmers in a number of their obligations towards the public, banks and loans and go on to say. The second issue, Mr Minister, has to do - and we put it in our question - and you said that you will be placed in your dentistry - and in anti-hailing protection and the measures to be taken not only for the specific region of Pelion, but also for Thessaly in general. As you know, the whole of Greece is swayed by such disasters, without the State being concerned. And, of course, responsibilities exist over time in governments, as well as in regions and local administrations that do not take steps towards early prevention, prediction and treatment of disasters, as well as in the corresponding anti-military projects. In particular, this area also needs the specificity of the soil. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u31	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say that the topical and urgent procedure is an excellent procedure, provided it is used in the way it is planned. It is not a process of great analysis of issues. It is a rapid process of informing Parliament and exchanging views, but briefly. It is therefore an option now for the Member as to which issues he wants to raise. The more specific themes are, the clearer and quicker the answers will be. If we want, for example, to open up the whole question of the structural issues of rural development, then this is obviously not the right procedure to do so. So I'm going to stay in what you've asked. You're asking me if ELGA pays 100%. I do not know exactly what you are talking about, because it is two dimensions, but I will answer both of them. If you are referring to whether the ELGA regulation, according to what is envisaged, compensates 100%, the answer is not and rightly does not compensate for it, because it is clear that there must also be a procedure, so that the producer can take the right crop care, regardless of his insurance cover, in order to eliminate the damage. So, as far as all insurance systems are concerned, there is no agricultural insurance system in the world that provides 100% of the damage in this sense. So even in a future review of the ELGA, this is something that will not change, because it must not change. So that is the first answer if you refer to it. If you are now talking about the time when the compensation is paid, 65% or 35% - because somewhere you mention this - I will tell you that this is indeed a goal of change. It is now happening, but my view is that as soon as we can streamline, make ELGA's finances - and a first package of measures on this issue will come to our next bill, which will come for consultation in the next ten, fifteen days - there will be arrangements that will limit various irrational costs to ELGA and improve its situation. And by improving its financial situation, it will be able to redeem itself in cash and thus improve the payment and payment of losses. So this is the goal of the reform that we will do in ELGA and you will see it in the next period. I'm finishing with anti-hailing protection. At the moment there is a contract and a notice prepared by the previous government, which commits us. We do not have much room for that. However, I will say this and it is also known to the producers. There are active quartz protection measures and there are high funding in this direction. I would just like to say one thing about it. As regards these measures, active quartz protection was financed at very significant amounts. The whole of the notice was 12,500,000 euros and there has been a significant interest in active anti-haul protection. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would like to encourage our producers and also through us, but also through this debate, to make use of these measures and investments. They are very much financed by the Rural Development Programme and, therefore, it is important to do this. The anti-grass protection, that is, this package that we are doing, we will look at it as a whole. However, I say again that this is a proclamation prepared. We found it simply and ran it and had a number of issues, but in any case they were overrun by the Court of Auditors. This issue has been settled in any way. I think, however, that it is indeed an area that we need to see again and work harder to get better results. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u33	We move on to the first with number 819/15-2020, a topical question by MP Chania of the New Democracy Mr. Manosou Voloudakis, on the subject: "Anagasy of the tacosy in Crete". Mr. Voloudakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the olive oil industry in Crete last year was damaged by the turf and the ciphery, which the Region of Crete valued in 100 million euros, a huge sum which made life really difficult for olive growers and generally for the primary sector. You know this because you came to Crete in time. You have discussed in detail with the operators and strengthened the region's budget for the tactics with EUR 2 million. And, of course, you did. But today, Minister, we have new data. The new presumption is that we are living the conditions of the threatened coronary recession. We must in every way avoid additional economic risks and the problem of forests for a region like Crete is a huge economic risk. If we have any problems in the next olive-growing season, the consequences will no longer be for the primary sector and the olive-growing sector, they will be for the entire economy of Crete, every citizen of Crete. It seems that the appropriations are not sufficient for a full coverage programme. At least for Chania, it appears that the credits will reach five sprays, while experts say it will take six to seven. Lacking one last spray at the beginning of the autumn can be fatal, I was saying. I would therefore ask you, Minister, to increase the budget of the Region of Crete in time. At the same time, we also need to ensure the quality of the homicide. It is, of course, the responsibility of the regions. But the homicide today must be done in a way that incorporates the last word of science and technology, including electronic means of control of the process. And that's central government work, Minister. The latest directives for the regions by the Ministry of Rural Development are in 2002. This should be updated, including instructions for the use of medicines. The list should be updated immediately and the regions updated. For example, we have recently seen preparations containing an active substance, Thiacloprid, which are banned by the European Union with a transitional period at least, being in those where the regions can use, at the same time as the Institute for Subtropical and Olives of Chania, a research institution with very high credibility, has considered this active substance ineffective, beyond others. I'll tell the rest in my denture, because there are issues running. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u35	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the honourable Member for the question. You were right to point out that Crete has been strengthened in terms of the crime programme, following these meetings we held in December and in line with the commitment I made there, with the sum of two million, which were actually transferred. Of course, here we have to say that this is the case with the approval of the Ministry of the Interior. These are the amounts of the Ministry of Interior which are given and not the amounts of the Ministry of Rural Development. In this regard, the Ministry of Rural Development was recommended to the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Interior accepted this recommendation. So the question of the amounts and the funding of the murder programme is an issue which, precisely because the 'current' regions, the 'current' regional government, is organised and carried out by the regions, is something that has to do with the Ministry of the Interior budget. What is the involvement of the Ministry of Rural Development in the homicide programme? It is necessary to make a central supply of medicines and then send the drugs to the regions in order to 'run' the tactics programme. So this is as far as this year's period is concerned. Everything has been done in due course. We are absolutely ready and, therefore, there is not the slightest delay in this matter, which had appeared in other years. As far as medicines are concerned, the specific medicine you refer to is indeed Thiacloprid. It is to be withdrawn within the year. However, there is a one-year margin for the use of existing stocks in this specific active substance. I think that there are two medicines that have this specific active substance and, as far as I know, the drugs that are to be used for the fraud in Crete - none of these two - do contain the specific active substance. So that shouldn't worry you. As far as the number of frauds, i.e. fraudulent sprays, are concerned, the general direction - to all of us - given in the context of good agricultural practices is that they must be made as few as possible. So there must be a balance here, and that is something that experts will determine. I won't say it. It is defined by the special geopolitics - scientists, who are following the tactical program. There must be a balance between a limited use, in order to have a rational use of plant protection products and not to be charged without necessary, the fruit of the tree from the product and, of course, it must be an effective plant protection. This, to a large extent, entails close, diligent monitoring of producers' developments and close cooperation between producers here and the relevant departments of the regions, so that the mechanism can be effective. I will say something in general in this respect and I shall end. Terrorism as a mechanism is very critical of its effectiveness, of the way in which it is conducted, of the various actors involved, as to who should be involved in the individual mechanisms. It's something I've said, that I want to see it again, to see it all over again. To see again what is not going well, to what extent is it going wrong and what is to be changed and, therefore, it is one of the things that we will discuss more and deeper in the future. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Voloudakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is obviously not a solution to make as many sprays as possible, and I suggest that. I say, however, that additional credit must be available so that if experts consider that one or two additional sprays are needed, they can be made. It is not now the year to do experiments and to make drastic reductions in corporation sprays. I have to deal with two urgent issues, apart from the original text of the question. As if it were a few of our problems in the primary sector of Crete, in May we faced heat, with serious consequences for olives and citrus fruits. The ELGA assesses the damage. We do not know where the procedure is at the moment, that is to say, the valuation of losses has not been completed. That's what I mean. I would ask you, on the one hand, to speed up the process and, on the other, to ensure that the actual damages are compensated. Things are marginal in the primary sector of Crete. The other issue I want to raise concerns livestock farming, sheep and goatmeat, in particular. You have decided - and rightly so - to compensate farmers for their damages from the EUR 4 pandemic for each female animal. As a prerequisite you placed dairy production, the delivery of 100 kilograms to the season for each animal compensated in a certified cheese factory. I understand your thinking and you have analysed it publicly and in many debates you have given me this. You must, indeed, have some way of checking that the compensation will be taken by the real farmers. Yes, sir! In our case, however, in the White Mountain livestock area, Mr Minister, there are real farmers who do not feed their animals. They are guided by the combination of factors, low prices in milk, high prices in feed and the general difficulty in caring for herds when livestock is carried out at high altitudes, remote areas, poor land. How will these people be compensated? There is a serious risk that what you have budgeted, at least for Crete, will not be used for this reason. Traditional mountain farming is a fact that, in the current market conditions, it is not sustainable in the long term. Without livestock farming, however, the mountain villages will be abandoned. The question goes beyond the scope of the support of a particular human professional category. The need for mountain villages to have life is national. For this reason mountainous traditional livestock farming must be included in the sectors to be supported by exploiting synergies that can be exploited in an environmental policy for mountain tumors. The European Development Fund is coming in 2021. This should include mountain farming. Plan a programme, Minister, which will face these market difficulties to give life to our mountain villages again. This government, I am sure, will not follow the horrific madness of mountain farming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u39	Mr Voloudakis, as far as I understand it, your second question has nothing to do with that. So I say this and if the Minister wants to answer it. If he does not want the Rules of Procedure, he has the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u40	Mr. President, excuse me. I made it clear at first that there is a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u41	However, as President-in-Office, because today time permits, you have seen that I am elastic towards all Members. But it is good to observe the Rules of Procedure too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, I am sorry, but that is not unprecedented. I don't think you've seen it for the first time in your term as Vice President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u43	It's the first time I've let it evolve. I assure you. I never saw it for the first time. It's the first time I've let it evolve.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u44	When we have the Minister, and we have a current issue of topicality, it is reasonable to mention it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u45	Now either we have a rule or we don't have one. All right, I said that we have a gap today and it is the Bureau in general a little bit free. We didn't take your head. Just because the Minister made a speech to the previous speaker. I figured out where the bell rang. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. I understand the orality of the procedure, I understand that the orality of the procedure always has a flexibility, and I also understand the sensitivity of my colleague, who has proved himself in the primary sector and especially in his area. So everything is understandable. I am simply saying that it is always better for colleagues to use it targeted because it is, in any case, limited. In that sense. It doesn't allow very long conversations. However, let me just add to one point my response to the issue of the fraudstery of Crete. Crete has further strengthened, not only with the 2 million. It has been further enhanced because a certain durability of the torch appeared, in combination with other causes, we have put more expensive and modern drugs on the drugs of Crete this year. Therefore, there is additional reinforcement of the tactical programme for that reason. It is not something that is transferred within the meaning of the money to Crete, but it has taken more expensive and more sophisticated drugs to the homicide. So I think that at this point it is the best that can be done, and I hope that everything will go well. You raised the issue of damage to me. I can tell you that the appropriate procedure will be followed and we will show the necessary care and sensitivity so that as far as possible, the problems of damage and compensation can be identified in the fairest and most accurateest way, and what is being compensated and what is not compensated. You mentioned the high temperatures, obviously in this phenomenon that appeared at the time. The second part you have put to me is the part of mountain farming. Look. I will say this very quickly so that we do not have to open up a debate again. If you want to get out of here, you still have to target her sometime. I will respond very quickly, however, to this one minute and ten seconds that I have left. No solution can cover everything. There is no solution which at individual level covers everything. We have done what we have done, firstly, that we have identified a sum which, for the time being, is not to tackle the structural problems of livestock farming that do exist. Because this amount will go according to the state aid procedure, and it is about the impact of the coronary, not something else. It's not even about the year. I hear a comparison, Mr Voloudakis. Let me just say it. He says: SYRIZA gave 41, you gave 31. Yes, sir. SYRIZA gave 41 for the structural problems of sheep and goats in four and a half years. We give 31 for the effect of the coronary in two months. To be understood at some point. So there is another debate on the structural issues. It is very nice to raise a central issue that is strengthening mountain ovine and caprine farming. I also say something to you as a political statement, as a strategic statement here. We are interested in this aid for a number of reasons. Not only for the social reason that you have said, but because this ovine and caprine food and the way it develops has quality characteristics that lead us to the effort we are making to strengthen quality in specific products. So we're interested in that. I'm telling you, it's gonna happen. The second thing I'm telling you is that this aid procedure will now be in place, and if there have been issues that give rise to some kind of real issues, let me say, injustices and have not been covered by this measure, we have a way to cross-check and we will see and cover any injustices that have been committed by the present regulation that we are doing, which were targeted, it was rational, but obviously, as a horizontal, transparent and uniform, it cannot cover all cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u47	We continue with the question under No 5838/15-4-2020 question of the circle of petitions and questions by the Member of the Heraklion Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Aid to producers in May to 50% of the subsidy, through the cash facility of the Community Guidance and Guarantee Fund (OPEKEPE).' Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, all sectors of the primary sector, livestock farming, agriculture and fisheries are facing a great deal of trouble. It's in front of a dead end. In the accumulated problems of previous years, the problems of pandemic measures have also been added. If no immediate measures are taken, the country's production capacity is at risk of food adequacy. These are problems which, of course, have a tail in recent years, and the Minister mentioned earlier the outstanding claims for compensation, for olive cultivation and for the viticulture and the recent damages due to the heat. The European Union has given specific tools to deal with this crisis. The government made decisions. However, we note that until now the farmer has not reached these measures as a potential benefit. We therefore concentrate with our question today on a tool available to the Ministry of Rural Development in order to make use of it and to give farmers the liquidity they need in order to grow next year. So are farmers, fishermen and other sectors of the rural economy. The single payment which, as a whole, is 1,700,000, is the right of farmers and is individually entitled to it, each one's criteria. It has also been done in the past, let alone now that the European Union is allowed to do so and that the Treaties impose it because of the problem that has arisen. We are asking for an immediate advance of at least 50%. We have asked for it since May. It can be done within ten days. The services have this capacity, the OPECE has this capacity. Furthermore, the cost for the Greek State will be very small, negligible. No other measure can cost so little. We will have the opportunity after the Minister's reply, to say concrete facts. But I would like to ask myself, Minister: this tool you have in your hands, why do you not use it? Why is there not the vigilance and determination that it needs at this particular juncture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u50	Mr Kegeroglu says, if you wish, we are connected with his argument: in October, the first part, the advance payment of direct aid, is to be paid. And this advance comes to an end in December. In October, on the basis of the amendment made by the competent European Commission, an increased amount of advance will be paid from 65% to 75%. The rest will be paid in December. This is the current way in which the aid is paid. Mr Kegeroglu says this now: why don't you get the aid paid earlier, at least - he says - 50%? As far as I understand it, that's his position. What is to be paid in October, you come to pay for it in July or August, or, in any case, as soon as there is the possibility of completing the procedure for the submission of declarations and their finalisation. The finalisation of the declarations, the submission of the declarations was closed the other day, on 15 June, and we now proceed to finalise them in terms of OPEKEPE. So Mr Kegeroglu says, "Why do you not give 50% of this money?" First of all, I would like to clarify the mechanism a little. Who do we give? This is money that has to come - and this is how it is done - and this money is coming through the banking system, with the OPEKEPE process and intervention, actually credited to the beneficiary's accounts. Yes, sir. Could something happen in the meantime? Like what? Is there a sum from where? I assume that Mr Kegeroglu does not mean to give 1,000 000 from the state budget. I do not imagine that he says that because there are no such sums to be paid. There should therefore be lending of these amounts. There's no other way. Someone has to lend this sum to the Greek public now, this Greek State will then give it to OPEKEPE with a guarantee - that is how this loan will be made - the future aid paid to producers. The other way is to keep the Greek State from intervening at all, but to go directly to producers to receive a loan which, with the guarantee of the future aid paid, is guaranteed. Here we are considering the possibility of these mechanisms, Mr Kegeroglu - I must tell you - which means that I have not excluded this possibility. But to answer your question, I will tell you two things. Costs are not negligible. The cost of the advance payment of 1,000,000,000 three months ahead is 10,000,000 to 15,000,000 million euros. What can we do? Put the number down a little. If you put down the numbers, it's so much. So it's not negligible. It's an important interest cost. If you tell me now - I will put myself on this - that, for example, I will take it and remove it from the 150,000 000 that I have for aid, I will tell you that I will not. I'm telling you right away. I am not going to remove 15,000 million aid to producers to pay interest at the bank, to have an advance of three months. Secondly, the debate is premature. Why? Because the debate in the European Commission is under way, so that the European Commission can make it possible to repay and transfer the amounts more quickly. So between going to pay 15,000 interest and waiting to see what is going to happen with the pressure that is being exerted on the European Commission today, to tell you the truth, I will prefer the second one at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u52	Minister, I will only focus on the real facts and I will not criticise what you have said and how much it is. And why is that? Because I respect you as a person, as a politician, as a legal person. However, I cannot say that there is no need to inform your face by the responsible - you judge who they are - about what has happened in the past and how many times the cash facility has been used and what tools are there in this particular case. So I will tell you straight away that even if the European Union does not shorten the time - which will shorten it - for the possibility of a normal payment of the advance and the aid, the OPECE and the Ministry of Rural Development have the opportunity to make a significant advance. These 850,000 000, 1,000 000, is a huge liquidity and you will have done what has not been achieved even in the other sectors of the economy, even though the sums there are much more. The world is listening for millions and billions, but there is a difficulty in the process of granting them. The granting of an advance via a cash facility is a procedure that can be done within ten days. And, if you want, any guarantee we go to the OPEKEPE services together to see that it can be done. Second one. What's the cost? If we assume that this advance of 850,000,000 or 1,000,000,000, would be one year, in one year, at a rate of 1%, it would be 10,000,000. In one month, it's not 10,000,000. It's for twelve. So because you are complaining about 1%, I will tell you that the interest rates at the time are almost zero. Almost zero! Therefore, the cost of the advance for three months, in my view, does not exceed EUR 280,000. That's the cost, Minister, 280,000 euros. Please contact the competent authorities and contact the bank. Why do you have to contact the bank? Because it is in the energy of a loan agreement between Piraeus and ELECF following a tender and on the basis of the current loan contract, you can use this superpower. That's what I'll call it. 'Cause when we're talking now about all the others that are some millions, that don't exceed 400,000,000, you're fighting with SYRIZA for 400,000,000 or 300,000, and here I'm talking about 1,000,000, which is in your hands, you guys don't make use of them? I would ask you, then, once again - it is the second time we have been discussing this - to hold a meeting with the relevant authorities, to contact the bank, and, in any case, to ask in the past when it had been given by means of a cash facility. Do not go along with the issue of borrowing farmers and reacting, etc., because that is not the case. The cash facility is made in a way, with the guarantee of the State once the subsidies are granted as their right and are transferred to the bank thereafter and repaid. I think you're well-off, but you haven't been informed. But if you tell us that you have been informed, then it is incomprehensible - at least to me personally - to difficulty or athleticness, if you wish, although there is not much boldness. Systematic is the decision. It's happened before. That's how the system works. We are waiting for your answers, Minister. Let me tell you that some people have announced that an advance is now given at the end of June. Yesterday was a front page in a newspaper and I'll send it to you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u53	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u54	It is with great respect to highlighting the relatively contradictory here of the position. And to say why, in this context, it is contradictory. Because if it is true, as I have said, and as Mr Kegeroglu has said, there is a general pressure on the European Commission to speed up the procedure for repayment of aid precisely because of the impact of the Coronovirus, and it is actually in July, then it is clear that our debate does not make sense. Because it will make sense to expect the process to be carried out in July, so without costing, without getting involved in legal matters, without saying what is done with cash, if there are guarantees, if there are no guarantees. If the European Commission moves the payment from October to July, there is actually no discussion. This was indirectly agreed but was clearly agreed by Mr Kegeroglu and, therefore, I am pleased that you are also in agreement with my strategy. Because the strategy I am following is this, namely to force the European Commission to bring the payment forward. But let us assume that this is not the case. Let me put a little on the field very quickly, even though it is complex as I can just put the legal issue on the table. The beneficiary of the aid is the producer, do not forget that. He's the one who gets the backup. His right, the producer, is a claim that he has to receive from this particular account, in fact, to which you referred, where the money is being put in. And, indeed, the mechanism is that there is a relationship and contract with Piraeus Bank. One percent I don't know where you found it. It's a bit of yours at 1%.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u55	It's zero.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u56	Zero, too, I don't know where you found it. Why is this really what we're talking about? We say that what is to be credited in October and that is what is to be transferred will be given by someone now. You're the ones who tell me that you're going to be given an awkward offer. Such kindness from banks I, to tell the truth, have not met, but to see it. But since I'm telling you that there has been contact, I didn't see such a good option, that love, that they don't have interest. There will therefore be interest costs. The interest cost of 1% if it's 240,000, Mr. Kegeroglu, I can assure you I'll do it tomorrow morning. That's not the burden. And it also has a legal issue which, however, is the truth that I think it is going beyond it, and I do not have much trouble with that. Let me tell you what the legal issue is: the granting of the aid for guarantee purposes. There is a question of whether they are transferable or not transferable. I'm not teasing you. I think that will be resolved. I mean, that's what I think it's handled. But, I repeat, if we are to pay a lot of interest to have an acceleration - be careful - which will then cost me the possibility of supporting producers, it is not my choice. If, on the contrary, the amounts are low... But I will tell you again on this, and I will come back with written, if you like, a proposal and a commitment from the bank to the cost of this mechanism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u57	A word, if you like, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u58	Hey, you're gonna say "bravo" now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u59	He's leaving it open.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u60	I want you more generous!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u61	I'll be brave if he makes a solution. I am presenting to the minutes of the Ministry of Finance's reply to the question that the Ministry of Rural Development has all the tools at its disposal to make use of them. So we expect the Minister immediately to answer us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S1-commons.u63	With the consent of this House the sitting is closed for Wednesday 17 June 2020 at 12.00 hours on the subject of this House's work: debate and decision on applications for waiver of immunity from Members, in accordance with the special agenda.
