ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Statement of the State Budget for the financial year 2021'. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the state budget will be held in accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure at five consecutive sittings. After the decisions of the Conference of Presidents of 3 and 9 December 2020, I propose after the speeches of the general and special rapporteurs, which will be completed today, that there should be a first circle of speakers with a number of speakers. In other words, as a priority, we will have six alternate Members, one of each of the six groups. This will take effect tomorrow morning. That's how we're gonna get started. Then, as far as possible, I propose that a single list of speakers, including all Members registered, should be drawn up in accordance with the lists of speakers sent to the Bureau by the secretariats of the Parliamentary Groups. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the The circles of speakers will be as follows: Each cycle will consist of twelve MPs, that is, six MPs from New Democracy, three MPs from SYRIZA, one MP from the Change Movement, one MP from the Communist Party of Greece. The twelfth speaker, who will complete the so-called twelve cycle, will come from either the Greek Solution or Mera25 alternating ones, in order to ensure that the two smaller groups are present at more meetings than those that would appear if they were represented in the first cycles. It should be noted that this proportion will be maintained until the number of parties registered, which means that in the last few de facto cycles the rotation will be limited to the largest parliamentary groups. Changes in the order of registered speakers should be made in exceptional cases with the approval of the Bureau, and only in a document of the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Group addressed to the Bureau and with the necessary condition of mutual change until the end of the second sitting, i.e. until Saturday night. We will make every effort this year, as is the case in recent years, so that all colleagues can speak. This will be possible if we all limit ourselves to the time we are entitled to, and if our meetings start at the very time that has been set on the agenda. That is why I stress, ladies and gentlemen, that time must be strictly respected and the start of meetings should take place at the time that has been planned. The rigour of the time is not only about the Members, it concerns the ministers, the Deputy Ministers and the State Secretarys too. All the next meetings we decided at the Conference on 9 December 2020 to start at 9.00 a.m. and to end by 22.00 a.m. without interruption at the latest. In order to make it easier for Members to attend by decision of the President, however, I propose that the sittings begin at 9.30 a.m. So tomorrow we'll just start at 9:30 in the morning. I propose that the speaking time of the general rapporteurs should be twenty-minutes, of the special rapporteurs, of the Chairman of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and of the Prime Minister of 30 minutes, of the Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and of the Chief of Officerial Response for thirty-minutes, of the Chairmans of the Parliamentary Groups of the Change Movement, of the Communist Party of Greece, of the Hellenic Solution and of Mera25 twenty-five minutes, of the responsible Minister of Finance twenty-five minutes, of the Deputy Minister of Finance, 15 minutes, of the competent Finance Ministers of the other Ministries ten minutes, of the Deputy Ministers of the other Ministries eight minutes, of the Secretarys of the other Ministries seven minutes in analogous manner. Parliamentary representatives are entitled to speak for twelve minutes. Also, the speaking time for priority speakers and speakers on the list will be seven minutes. By unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents of 9-12-2020 these times will be strictly respected, so that as many speakers as possible can speak. I would remind you that, for health protection purposes, speakers will have to leave Ethiopia after the completion of their speech. In any event, more than 50 Members may not be present in Ethiopia. On Tuesday 15-12-2020 at night the fifty Members allowed to be present because of the leaders will vote electronically and the two hundred fifty will vote by letter. Finally, I propose that today's sitting be closed after the speeches of all twelve special rapporteurs. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u2	So the House unanimously agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u3	Mr President, I would like to ask a question. Tuesday, what time will the meeting begin? Did you say so and I didn't hear it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u4	Tuesday morning will begin at 9.30 a.m. Just so you know, I now tell you outside of what I had to say in an introductory statement, that the Conference of Presidents decided, in order not to arrive at twelve o'clock at midnight, about one to two o'clock at noon, that the positions of the parties' leaders should be reverted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u5	I, Mr President, have another briefing. We didn't agree on that. We propose that we follow the procedure that has been done in the motion of censure, namely that the parties' leaders should be placed at 16.00 a.m. to speak to more Members. We think it's better. I don't see why. It wasn't a confession.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u6	Mr. Chaakalot, I'll tell you. Ms. Gerovasili was recommended to start at 14.00 p.m. by 15.00 p.m. Finally, the President insisted and when the decision was taken I did not hear a statement of objection. But that's not the point. You want by a majority? The majority didn't ruin the world. Just the reason we start earlier, to have finished at 12 o'clock at midnight, is that because of the letter vote of two hundred and fifty MPs, the time that is needed by the services to pass in the inflatable space is at least two hours, Mrs. Perifanos tells me more. That is why we are starting earlier, so that the sitting has been held no matter whether we are finished as parliamentarians around 12 o'clock at midnight. Or we'd go after 12 o'clock. After the clarifications you have made, of course, Mr Papaderiou, we will not fight for this right now - the rapporteur-general of the New Democracy, Mr Charalambos Papadimitriou, is called in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 79 of the Constitution provides that all State revenue and expenditure must be entered in the annual budget. We are therefore called upon, ladies and gentlemen, to approve or, for those who choose it, to reject the legality of the government, namely, the ministries, regions, agencies and municipalities, to carry out the expenditure that the Minister for Finance has included in the budget for the year 2021. At the same time, as logical, we must respond if we agree to the imposition and allocation of certain taxes on the incomes that the economy will generate in the next 12 months. The New Democracy Parliamentary Group, following discussions in the relevant Committee on Economic Affairs of the Greek Parliament, will vote in favour of the budget under discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in an unprecedented period of human history. Fortunately, we have not lived through similar sizes of health destruction for a century. No one had predicted the size of the pandemic caused by the easy and rapid spread of COVID -19. Many of us did not have a clear idea that science, while of course it is well aware of the threat of viruses, after accompanying the appearance and development of life itself, has no immediate solution to the epidemics. The main and ever-increasing measure is individual and collective prophylaxis, the strengthening of health resources, the suspension of social and economic activities and, unfortunately, the carotidity towards unavoidable human losses, until free scientific research and pharmaceutical companies find vaccines and medicines that limit the effects and allow society to put the machines of the economy back on track. We are already mourning here the loss of three thousand three thousand, three hundred and seventy people, in Europe of four hundred sixty thousand and in the world of all five hundred and seventy thousand. In the face of this grim reality, one would expect the conflicts to be settled, which so easily thrive in the Third Hellenic Republic. All over Europe, citizens support the efforts of their States and, ultimately, their governments. Nowhere, obviously, opposition parties are silent, with the exception of extreme populists, who anyway speak without being heard. But anywhere they preach dissent, they do not bring destruction. They address themselves with an awareness of their responsibilities and the possibilities of each country. This is the case in all European states, as it shows in this respect, which has only reminded us of the previous experienced Eurobarometer analyst and has been published in the valid newspaper 'TA NEWs'. I put forward the relevant document to be known to everyone. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Charalambos (Babis) Papademitriou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Obviously, this defensive co-existence is not in agreement with the party of Officerial Opposition, and that is why it has not once found a good reason to support the collective effort. The small-scale presidential group, which manages the things in Koumoundourou, acts as if nothing learned either from the pain and damage it caused in 2015 nor from the experiences of the six hundred twenty days that he took over the government headquarters. He remains a fan of the doctrine of destruction. It deals with the efforts of many in the health system, in tourism, in commerce, in industries, in the focus, in transport, in all those who fight, in order to stand up and safe. We didn't win all the battles in the past ten months. We lost people, we lost opportunities. But we did not lose our soul, sense of duty, courage. And that is why we have so far won the great battle: we are protecting society. The health system remains, most patients are treated because of the coronary. Greece remains among those states that apply strict restrictions and have fewer COVID cases -19 compared to other states, as shown, once again, by the figures which we have calculated and want a lot of attention, before we speak, to see exactly where we are. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Charalambos (Babis) Papademitriou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, the destruction of the economy, which is caused even when the spread of the disease remains under restriction, could not be avoided. We pay the price. The vaccines that are coming, the drugs that will come, too, allow us to hope that once we return to normality, we have the opportunity to work hard and cover the damage we have. And while the country is moving with realism and wisdom, Mr. Tsipras has asked for a hurry, with the first wave of the epidemic, to share the state of 30 billion and put it in, and wait until the virus disappears. However, since then, the Qualifying Opposition has not updated its proposals or explained with which elements it disputes the actual expenditure of 24 billion already incurred. Nor can anyone understand why he will not be voting in favour of the specific expenditure of the 7 billion entered in the 2021 budget for the same purpose, where, in my assessment, it is likely that another 3, maybe 4 billion will be added if the pandemic is not radically retreated by the end of spring. I should like to give you examples, in order to understand the extent of the ignorance shown by the Qualified Opposition in the efforts of the state, namely the taxpayers, to limit the effects of pandemic and incarceration on workers and especially on employees. First example: Special study by Professor Betcherman of the University of Ottawa in Canada and economist Testaverde of the World Bank showed that Greece is an example of how it organized the protection of employment and incomes that would otherwise be lost. The study title says it all: ‘How to protect jobs from COVID -19. What the experience of Greece teaches us." I would remind you, although Mr Stavros has already submitted it to the committee when we were discussing it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Charalambos (Babis) Papademitriou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, the employment figures announced by the Statistical Authority only yesterday show that, as the previous analysts mentioned, unemployment fell to 16.1% in September. It was up to 18 percent in June. Without seasonal correction, the reduction is impressive. Thirdly, a study by EUROSTAT, although it cannot be considered absolutely safe in everything, because it is based on mathematical estimates that are still experimental, showed that the labour subsidies organized by Greece have dramatically corrected the incomes of the lowest paid wage earners. We have the third best performance right after France. As mentioned in the study, ‘Croatia, France, Greece, Luxembourg, Slovenia and Slovakia have achieved a higher correction of the income losses for low-wages through wage reduction compensation programmes, from around six to more than ten percentage points’. Less, of course, it is correcting to the highest incomes, because in these categories fewer people were left without work or who were excluded from work. Please take careful note of the study - and I shall table it - and the relevant diagram, number 14 on page 10, especially you, Mr Tsakalotes, because you appeared yesterday publicly selective and careless in choosing your data, as usual, because - and I would like to ask you - this is not the way to gain my appreciation as an economist. Not, of course, whatever you need. Of course, as an economist, because as a human I enjoy your sense of humor. This may happen among those who deal with what "THE SOCIALIST" writes, but please avoid it when you are addressing the New Democracy. The rest here in the Chamber, because I personally do not have time to monitor the liquorists' blogs at Mr Tsipras' party. I'm filing the study in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Charalambos (Babis) Papademitriou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In general, former ministers consumed any experience of state administration in questioning the efforts of society, the state and the citizens. They put them, for example, with official evidence, obviously, because they demonstrate that the financial needs of the health system are immediately, fully and continuously covered. They only show zeal when they have doubts about the decisions of epidemiologists, as they have recently done with the subtle questioning of the valuable work done by the National Public Health Agency. It is also a proof, because we need to change the insurance system against health risks. Citizens pay around 15 billion a year through contributions, taxes and directly from their income. With this amount, if our hospitals become responsible and autonomous in financial and medical management, if services and materials are properly invoiced and private insurance is developed at the same time, which today is only 4.5% of this expenditure, public health would cost the citizen less and would provide him with more. Recently, the Hellenic Statistical Authority published the definitive data on national income in recent years. It has therefore been shown that: Firstly, among the elements used by the President of SYRIZA, when he talks about 'Mitsotakis' and the reality, there is a difference of 10 billion euros, which Mr Tsipras has lost somewhere, but certainly the citizens have won. Secondly, in the period 2015-2018, the euro area increased its GDP by eight percentage points, while we by just 2%, in the middle of the other countries. Here is the table of relatively simple acts. I'm filing him for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Charalambos (Babis) Papademitriou, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Thirdly, when colleagues from the Vice-President received the governance, the country was on a recovery track and this is now proven three times from the statistics. The economy had managed to come out of a six-year compulsory correction and recession and to close in 2014 with a 0.7% rise. If Greece had continued on the road to smooth exit from the second memorandum and did not trust its fates in Tsipras - Kammenos - Varoufakis, the state, economy, citizens and businesses would have been much better when the COVID hit. For example, the Greek banks would have joined the monetary relaxation, the famous QE of the European Central Bank, along with the other members of the euro area. We know today that all he had to do in the spring of 2018 is deal with them. Tsipras and Tsakalotos was to allow us to have some of the overtaxation of citizens for voting purposes. Unfortunately, Europeans, under the electoral pressure of immigration in Germany, have taken part in this shameful idea of a compromise. There are a lot of things that have been lost at the moment and the years I have been referring to. It's a big deal of damage that's done. Elastic estimates estimate it more than 100 billion. And after all, it's depressing to remember them. But all this must convince us, ladies and gentlemen, that when you have an opportunity, as we had in 2014, you do not let it pass unexploited. From the bottom to which we arrived in the summer of 2015, when the economic climate index fell to 79 points, which is the lowest point after 2000, until this time in 2018, when the market believed in the upcoming political change and started a small and initially unstable improvement, the country went to hell and returned. With the result of the European elections Greece quickly took over and Mr Tsipras escaped, successfully, I must confess. Until the epidemic, in February 2020, the confidence index had reached 113, which is the best level of the economic climate indicator, i.e. confidence, since 2001. And to remember, if anyone's looking for it, I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Charalambos (Babis) Papademitriou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The prospects were excellent, despite the serious resurgence of economic activity in the euro area, which has also led our country to a negative conclusion. Only SYRIZA's leading team doesn't see the facts, I insist. We pointed out to the economists of the Opposition Officer not to urge their President to speak about 'Mitsotakis appeal'. Look how far it fell: In a plenary debate here on 12 June, Mr. Tsipras took the well-known serious style and moved our finger, saying: "You received an economy to run in July 2019 at a rate of 2.8%". First mistake: The third quarter of 2019 was going with 1.2%, despite the historically best year that tourism achieved. It further claimed that: ‘The fourth quarter of 2019 Greece was the country with the worst performance of twenty-seven, with 0.07%’. The second mistake, too. We then continued with 1.2%, just as much as the Europe of twenty-seven. He also said: ‘We have had a recession of 0.9% since the first quarter of 2020.’ That's wrong, too. The first quarter was maintained by 0.4%. Only with these three reports, Mr Tsipras managed to fall out by five whole percentage points of GDP, which account for almost ten billion, as I mentioned just before. It is obvious that when it comes to numbers and events, Mr. Tsipras manifests his obsession with manioc depressing catastrophe, a situation which, unfortunately, often occurs in the world of demek Left. In the same way, the dogmatic commitment to misery and political insistence on grievance is also confronted with the development of the pandemic in our country. We liberals are adapting our policies when the reality of the numbers and difficulties we are experiencing so that we can work in the interests of society rather than of ideology. It is obvious to everyone that no provision can be made with the precision required for the pandemic's path and that the economy will eventually be affected for the whole of 2021, even in 2022. Who can predict precisely a week when each European economy will, and indeed safely, be opened up? How many workers, how many vulnerable fellow citizens, how many businesses will continue to need the help of the state? The budget has been drawn up in the most likely scenario, based on the hope that a positive turn will be made at the end of spring. During the debate in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs I said that a high target for increasing the product in 2021 reflected the government's will to do whatever it takes to achieve a rapid recovery. Since then, the Ministry of Finance, along with almost all the analysts, has been converging in the moderate estimate of GDP growth by 4.8%. I want to believe that, depending on the performance of tourism next summer, we can go much better. It is right, as much as necessary, that the state will continue to intervene dynamically, horizontally and sectorally, for a longer time, perhaps in the depth of 2022. We are living a profound overthrow of the dogma that prevailed in Europe and has led to suffocating budgetary policies. This important review of things and balances began before the pandemic, when the European Central Bank undertook to facilitate monetaryly the exit from the financial crisis. That initiative achieved its purpose, and that is why you see that it is still continuing and has just been strengthened yesterday. The pandemic indicates the need for a new type of cooperation between fiscal and monetary policy in order for our societies to face up to the critical issue of inequalities and poverty. From this change Greece has only won to win, as is well described in the Pissaridis report. I see the great frustration of those who insist on clipping, seeing all over with imaginary stories of extremist neoliberals. However, the budget is moving without party blindfolds. It is the first step towards formulating and implementing the New Economic Policy, capable of definitively pulling Greece out of the long-term immersion caused by the 2009 financial turmoil, the debt crisis in 2010-11, the irresponsible 2015 referendum, the 2016-18 retrograde stagnation and now, unfortunately, the COVID epidemic. This new policy takes into account the positive efforts made in the adverse conditions of the period 2012-14 and the uplift of hopes in 2019, which were maintained and maintained until the first quarter of 2020. However, we need strong political tools and realistic awareness of the difficulties. The budget we are considering is such a tool, the most direct one. The level of government expenditure, which is one of the highest - I have not found a higher level in recent years, except for some who have had a lot of money to spend - the 67.2 billion, maintains all the social benefits, pensions and wages of the state, and adds what is needed to deal with the health crisis. And it does so at the same time lowering taxes, a choice that is a bet on the tax administration, which will have to prove that it is capable of bringing glowing effects on tax evasion, despite the reduction in tax revenue to 47.8 billion. There is obviously a significant deficit of 14.7 billion and, after deduction of interest, a primary exposure equal to 3.88 % of GDP, according to the enhanced supervision methodology. However, the deficit will be covered by the markets and it is not expected to meet difficulties, as was seen even the day before by the invitation to tender fifty-two weeks. The two other macro-economic policy tools, ladies and gentlemen, are: First, the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which is based on the European Union's historic response to pandemic and will bring in our country chapters of 31.5 billion, 19.5 billion as a grant, over the medium term, which are added to almost 40 billion in the NSRP 2021-2027. Secondly, the development plan, known as the Pissaridis report, which develops a longer-term perspective, encodes on a realistic basis the basic reforms that can make Greece play in a higher category of states. As you know, both these plans are open for discussion. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, not only do you not vote for this emergency and rescue budget proposed by the Government by the Minister of Finance, Mr Stavoura, but you have quickly refused to accept the content, directions and, more generally, the reform wind of these two projects. You are diagnosing that you will prepare your own "projects". Hopefully, because the only project you have ever known is the third memorandum, increased with many billions of taxes, much less public investment and systematic abandonment of public infrastructure. If you sincerely wish to participate in the effort to discuss and find the best practices and solutions, here we are. Unfortunately, however, you have not given Greece anything of similar importance to this day. Did you ever do something to take productive growth initiatives in the period when you were in power, to rectify economic activity while you continued to exaggerate? Oh, no. But now we have a way out, a road. It is characteristic - and I would like to convey to you the information which has been constantly coming all along, especially in the prospect of redemption from the pandemic - that Greece is at the heart of the interest of many and good investors. Groups, companies and businessmen are about to put their hand in the pocket deep, raise capital in their name, organise management teams, attract researchers and scientists to do business here, with us, in our country, with a view to global markets. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] The dynamic completion of Greece's integration into the mechanisms of globalisation will take advantage of the international currency that we now have a twenty-year period of time and we have used it mainly for borrowing and consumption. What do they all see, what do we see from the majority side of the Chamber, but do they refuse to see it on the other side? They see that our country has understood the opportunities it has lost. They see that during the ten-year crisis we have achieved significant adjustments and improvements. They see that the Mitsotakis Government has already placed an effective framework for the resolution of the bank portfolio. They see that spatial law becomes functional and that, at last, we are starting to fight for a rapid and fair justice. They see the impressive performance of creating a higher quality tourist product. At this point, it is good to think that tourism needs a positive sign for 2021, an additional support, Minister, which is provided for in European legislation, such as the reduction of VAT to 6% and 13% in the respective services. They see that the government sincerely wants to transform the privatizations into investment opportunities for increasing production and that they welcome the new business licensing framework. They see the plan to degenerate and upgrade the areas of Macedonia, the position that Greece has in the energy networks, the prospects of environmentally friendly energy investments. They see the opening to competition of important transport hubs, ports, airports even the only railway line. They see the global role of Greek shipping. They see the dynamism of sustainable agricultural production, free from mutated interventions and increasingly possible in its clean biological identity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u8	Mr. Papadimitriou, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u9	Of course, I shall end, Mr President. Thank you. They see the high performance of Greek medical care and the prospects for exploiting open care opportunities. They also see the speed at which technology is integrated into our state functions and everyday life. To conclude, Mr President, they see the possibilities of developing research centres and innovative knowledge, especially now with Article 40 of Law 4758, which you also did not have the courage to vote with us. They see that lifestyles, Mediterranean food and climate attract incomes, Europeans and retired people. To conclude, let me take note of three moves that I believe will arise from our five-day debate. One, to vote on the proposed budget in order to apply strictly. Two, turn the epidemic's misfortune into an opportunity. We have the tool. It is the combination of the budget to be adopted with the other two that I have told you, the Recovery and Resilience Plan and the Development Plan, the Pissaridis Committee we have said. A significant part of the 32 billion will be committed in the next few months. Thirdly, to discuss quickly and positively some innovative reforms. The road to achieving the central objective of the decade, namely the systematic improvement of per capita real income, which is the main criterion of comparison between our country and Europe, is precisely the reforms. However, there needs to be a significant increase in employment, so that unemployment is reduced, because people will be involved in the labour market that are currently suffering from underemployment and unstable jobs and payments. In order to achieve this, investment needs to expand productive capital and increase labour productivity. In short, Greece's development path is the rapid increase in production volume and the widening of the margins of value added. The state can do a lot and do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u10	Please, Mr. Papadimitriou, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u11	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u12	Yeah, you said that three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u13	Two! The state can do much to support these priorities, but the one who has to bring them to a successful conclusion is the people, that is, what we usually say the private sector, which we should at last get to the bottom of, with an observation. If politicians are to keep the general choices clean and to facilitate the economy, the task of the citizens, in this case workers and entrepreneurs, is finally to do the job. That is why we believe in a state that supports the initiatives and the labour force of citizens and not nationals of a state - master. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u14	I have an announcement to make to this House. The Minister of Finance Mr Christos Stagioras submitted today 11-12-2020, on the basis of Article 42(3) of Law 4701/2020, FEK 128A, the following draft laws for: 1) Validation of the State Account, financial year 2019 and 2) Validation of the Balance Sheet and other financial statements of the central administration, reference period 1-1-2019 to 31-12-2019. Reference shall be made to the Committee on the Reporting and the General Balance sheet of the State and Control of the implementation of the State's budget. The SYRIZA general rapporteur, Mrs Ahtsoglou, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must confess that after Mr Papademiriou's position, any hopes have been depleted, that there will be a debate here which, on the part of the government, we would at least see an awareness of the situation, an understanding of what is currently happening in Greek society and in the level of pandemic and the level of the economy. What we have received from this speech is what we have been collecting for too many months, a government majority that is completely away from social reality. And let me say this, Mr Papadimitriou. Recognising the reality and problems of society is not maniac depression, it is realism. You probably have taken a distance, apparently convinced by the propaganda you have already cultivated. You live in your propaganda bubble. It's not like that. What we have been experiencing in Greek society in recent months has been a complete government failure. Absolute government failure both in the management of the pandemic and in the management of the economic crisis. That's a frenzy failure! And I think this is first pan-European, and there should be such a failure on both fronts. In the management of the pandemic, our country now has an extremely bad ratio in death index per 100 000 people. The hard index of the tubes is and remains extremely high, similar to cases, while the tests are reduced. The number of cases is increased and the tests are reduced. Within a month and a week, our country has two and a half thousand human casualties and you are making a speech of success here! I really get over this placement. The images, complaints from regional hospitals - and no one questions the testimony of health workers - are dramatic, especially from northern Greece. Human lives are lost that could have been saved, the staff who are currently giving the huge battle is declining and on one thing they all end up in one thing, one thing they all say: there has been absolutely no plan for months, no real support for hospitals with staff, neither for the elementary organization of the premises nor for materials, for nothing. For months in the air. That's what all people say, workers there. And November came and actually swept through everything in his path. Do you see any political responsibility here, gentlemen of the government? Do you recognize any political responsibility? There is, and it is huge and the worst is not that there is, the worst is that you don't even recognize it, you don't take it. You hide behind some communal terrain, behind some alchemys, behind some double case logs. You had all the time to prepare the public health system and you didn't. We told you, reinforce with permanent staff, strengthen the ICUs of public hospitals, proceed to order private ICUs, proceed to free mass tests for the population. You didn't do any of this, nor permanent staff, insignificant reinforcement of the IFs, and then some algae, to add beds from private hospitals and military, not free mass tests to the world. You let people pay for months 80 euros and 100 euros in private diagnostic centres to win. This has been the case for months when the opposition was shouting about what should be done. You've been answering some inappropriate lines, like Mr. Pecha's one who said that if we were following what SYRIZA says about the ITH, we'd throw money. By the end of October you gave the hospitals and primary care only 200 million more than you would have given if there were no CIVID. That is what your budget is saying. The evidence is here. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point Mrs Efi Ahtsoglou submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] By the end of the year you say that 400 million has been allocated. I doubt it. And give them, however, we remain at the bottom of the OECD to public health expenditure. Leave the stories about 780 million, etc. You're trying to make blokes, trying to make black white. You sum up, for example, the amounts that the State gives to cover the insurance contributions of workers in the country on suspension and present them as supposedly additional reinforcement of the public health system. You have not even accepted to proceed with the payment of the health newspapers, which have been unpaid for months, and then attempt to humiliate yourself with applause and talk about first-line heroes. That's a philosophical thing. And in the field of economics, failure is a frenzy. The Greek economy recorded 11.7% recession in the third quarter of 2020, the biggest recession in Europe. The average in Europe is 4.3%. In 2020, with your forecasts, we will close with 10.5% recession for the whole year, one of the greatest declines in Europe, if not the biggest recession in Europe. Is there a responsibility? Mr. Stavura, is there a responsibility for this situation? As much as you want to get rid of her?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u16	For the nine months?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u17	You were joking last time when we told you that responsibility exists here, that you have a responsibility for this recession. You were joking. There is an Austrian saying that says: the situation is critical but not serious. This is what happens with your case. Could you act differently? The responsibility arises there when you can do something else and you don't. Could you act differently? You could have. The country had a number of advantages, which allowed things to be very different for both the economy and society thanks to what you inherited, the EUR 37 billion security cushion, the regulated debt, thanks to the suspension of the Stability Pact, which allows expenditure to be incurred without any limitations on the budget, without any restrictions on the achievement of primary surpluses, thanks to the programme of the unprecedented liquidity implemented by the European Central Bank. There were possibilities. What did you choose? You have chosen the policy of non-support essentially, time-incorrect policy, a policy incorrect in quantity, a policy mistaken in quality. Wrong policy in time: You celebrated the first time and said "we're doing great". We told you: The timing of the crisis in Greece is different. Greece has entered the pandemic crisis more slowly on the one hand, on the other hand Greece has a completely different economic structure, is not as exposed to the global chain of economic activity and production as, for example, Italy. This gives us a great advantage of time, to act forward. Do you remember the debate over the first few months, the persistence of the Officerial Opposition that told you 'act forward, to prevent the consequences, because when the country sinks into the recession it will not be able to move'? What did you do? You ignored us. Demonstrative. Now we see the results. See what happened in the third quarter, how business turnover collapses in the third quarter, which we don't have lockdown. Reduced by 62% the number of enterprises in the third quarter. What does that look like? That the economy alone does not recover if you do not apply support measures. Nor can the operation of businesses itself recover, nor can the citizens' consumer power obviously recover. Impossible quantity policy. Mr Papadimitriou said there is nowhere to be said about expenditure. Mr Papadimitriou, you have ever bothered to read the implementation of the budget, because I am the Minister of Finance. Budget implementation: State spending on citizens, businesses, households EUR 6.7 billion by the end of October. I'm not talking about deferrals. Deferrals of payments give an occasional relief, but change the problem for later. I am talking about net expenditure, 6.7 of which half the loans. That's the situation. Mr Mitsotakis' EUR 24 billion is the shortest joke. I am obviously tabling this report on the implementation of the budget for what I am saying. [[At this point Mrs Efi Ahtsoglou submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] According to the figures from the European independent budgetary authorities, Greece is a seventeenth-yearly among twenty-four European countries in budgetary measures and in lasting positions - the nineteenth - in terms of liquidity measures. I talked about a misguided policy on quality. Why? Loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, not direct aid. For a very long time you know that four out of five could not even go through the repayable advance, but those who take it, get a loan, which bears a terrible burden on their debt. At the moment, small and medium-sized enterprises are being crushed between two problems: lack of liquidity and debt. To workers, instead of supporting, we had a very heavy attack on their rights, an attack confirming that, in fact, this crisis was a terrible opportunity to unleash labour law. We have new rotational patterns, elimination of working hours, extreme flexible patterns, completely left to employers' arbitrary, subsidisation of unemployment with a horizontal allowance paid whenever it is, courageous and workers are nothing to pay and, okay, their wages will be a pocket to fill! That's the situation. Whole branches, with thousands of workers and professionals, have literally remained invisible to culture and sport. We told you, not only by SYRIZA, but all the professional operators in the country, the trade unions in the country, to do differently, to subsidise the job, to cover the wages, to make up for wages, to support household income, to go directly to small and medium-sized enterprises. What did you do? You ignored us again, and you've been wandering around for months in a virtual reality bubble of supposed success. What's the deal? Yesterday EUROSTAT - I will come to what Mr Papadimitriou said - published newer information. What's he saying? It says that Greek workers as a whole experience the third largest reduction in their income in Europe...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u19	Obviously, I will testify to the Minutes and I will ask you to read this table very carefully and see that here the bolts are the aftermath of the measures and you will see that our country is still in the third worst position, after the measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u20	After the booze. Don't you know how to read?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u21	Mr. Chakalato, please. Your rapporteur speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u22	That's the situation. The household income had collapsed. Already before the second lockdown was reduced by EUR 4 billion, by 12%. Already over a hundred thousand people are out of the labour market. Mr Papadimitriou, when you read the unemployment figures, do some trouble to see what the active population is, because there you will see that we have not had a real reduction in unemployment. There we had a great transfer of people from an active population, that is, from people looking for work, to a non-active population, that is to say, in people not looking for work. There is no real increase in the number of people employed. Make it hard to read this stuff. The people's debts have been ejected. There have been 2.5 billion new debts for citizens towards the public and the insurance funds at this time. Here too, we do not measure what is deferred, that is, frozen, which is another EUR 1.6 billion. How did you respond to this problem of citizens' debts? How exactly do you answer? What did you do? You brought in a month and a half ago a bankruptcy code, and you said to the world that since the new year it will go bankrupt, you will take away everything it has and it will not have, and its assets will be created. This is your answer to the problem of private debt, which has been created in many of your own management. How do all of this summarize? In the recession of the second quarter, in the recession of the third quarter, in the very deep declines - the third was the deepest in Europe - and in the very great recession that we seem to have throughout the year, which will also be one of the largest in Europe. Do you see any causal link, which connects your policy, your refusal to listen to what society says, what Antipopulation says, with the result? I think you don't see her and you won't see her, because you're trapped in two powers: obsession with the neoliberal dogma on the one hand, but also an arrogance on the other, which doesn't allow you to see beyond yourself, even if all the data of failure are finally unfolded in front of you. What did you answer all this? I have often heard Mr. Sylakakis say "if we had heard SYRIZA, the economy would have been derailed". While now, Mr. Dogloukakis, the economy has not been derailed in your view? Is it on the right tracks in the right direction? Is it possible even now to say these things? Is that, in your view, the deepest recession in Europe, in all likelihood, is not a derailment of the economy? Is this a good course? If you tell me she's good, that's where we're going to have another conversation. It's a sphere of other specialties. They are not economists or politicians. This was expected, in our view, to happen once you chose this policy of minimized expenditure. Because what all the economists agree with - Mr Tsakalots has told you many times - regardless of ideological directions of economists is that, in such a crisis, what is important is expenditure. You deny the anti-cyclical policy essentially. You say that if we followed the proposals of counter-population and supported household income and workers' wages, the money that the state would give would go to a "black hole" would not help with GDP containment. This is an outrageous argument, but beyond the insanity of the argument, the reality has already corrupted it. What did you do with that? GDP went down. And GDP is the critical denominator in all fractions, both in debt and deficit. Then I heard another argument from your side when you responded to our criticism. You told us: "But well, did you not know that Greece is absolutely dependent on tourism? Obviously, we would have the greatest recession." Well, didn't you know that Greece is dependent on tourism? Mr. Stagiras did not know that Greece is dependent on tourism when he said in March that all Europe will have a recession, but that Greece will be above zero? When you said that the recession in Greece would be 4%, then maybe it's 5%, didn't you know that Greece is dependent on tourism? You obviously knew, but that's not the point. The point is, you thought you'd be able to bring the revenues from tourism to Santorini. That's not how it works. No plan, no preparation, no single sanitary protocols at the entrance gates of the country, no negative tests, doing the favors in any major business group pushing you more. Because you have finally created an incomprehensible mess in tourism - your Minister for Development admitted it - the ultimate crazed one. Neither the health of citizens have you protected safe tourism and the revenues, obviously, have collapsed from tourism. It doesn't seem like 4 billion this year. We're talking about a 80% reduction. So, given the economic suffocation at the moment, we also consider the responsibilities. The worst is that with this policy, with these options, the conditions were cancelled for both a serious and rapid recovery in 2021. You yourself anticipate in the budget that there will be a growth of 4.8% of the year, with a recession of 10.5% this year. Even with your forecasts, this means a replacement of about 40%. Where's Mr. Mitsotakis' 'V'? Isn't that what Mr. Mitsotakis said? "All we lose this year will find it next year." In fact, he said: 'What we are losing this year will be more time, growth will be greater than recession'. Where's that? Why did this account collapse? The OECD says that time growth will be 0.9% in Greece, not 4.8%. I say this because even with your predictions, however, it is extremely problematic. I doubt they'll be confirmed. I doubt it. But here we are no longer talking about pointless mistakes. When one looks at 2021 and the budget of 2021, he sees that we are not talking about pointless mistakes, we are not talking about management deficiencies, perhaps about an inability to do so at a time of some ministers or ministries. Here we see a strategic situation and a strategic situation with a strategic map in front of us. Because, in fact, it is planned for 2021 that you will continue exactly the same policy - and worse - in 2020. I invite you to take a look at Table 330 which, in my view, is revealing. It shows exactly what the government thinks to do next year: zero aid for equipment, infrastructure and consumables in the ESS. At the health expenditure of 600 million less, a pandemic dramatic. No aid for permanent recruitment in the ERC. No aid for farmers, for professionals, for scientists, for tourist workers, for seasonal workers, for employees. For the employees, all there is is the suspension allowance in December, which will be paid in the new year. This is the forecast for 2021 for what the government intends to do to strengthen society. I would ask you not to answer this again that "we have created a reserve of 3 billion and parked at the end of 3 billion and we will see what we are going to do." That doesn't answer anything to anyone. No citizen feels safe by telling him that "I have built a reserve, which I will see what I will do with it". Why don't you have a very good story this year with Mr. Peaches' direct assignments and lists. You may want to present them to CECs. You may want to make gifts on channels, you may want to do anything. That doesn't answer anywhere, no need at all. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the government's political choices, the consequences of which are actually being 'washed' at the moment, which are the votes of an overall strategy. And I think it is precisely this strategy that is failing today. I say it is a strategy, because it is very easy to see the linking of these policies with what is said in the Pissaridis report, in the government's development plan. There are four principles: elasticisation of labour, and further. Privatization of public goods, public infrastructure, services, health, education, insurance. Basically, a contraction to the liquidation of small and medium-sized enterprises and a reduction in social costs. These actually include the plan. This is a project which increases social inequalities. It is a project that reduces the level of social services, reduces income for the vast majority of society, the vast middle and low incomes. On the other hand, there is a controversy plan, what SYRIZA serves, which says that it is a condition for growth that is the regulation of the labour market, the increase in wages, the strengthening of public structures, the universal social state in health, education, the support of small and medium-sized enterprises. And that is a model that can guarantee the reduction of social inequalities and social well-being. We are convinced that through this great test that society has passed this year - which we are all going through this year, which we are going through - people are beginning to realize much more about the need to change the model, precisely because they understood the value of the public health system, the value of the staff in the public health system. But he understood what it means to depreciate public structures, to depreciate, for example, public transport. He realized that the invisible hand of the market cannot solve any problems during a time of crisis nor, obviously, deregulation interventions, only exacerbate the problems. I think that this shift of consciences that is currently happening in Greek society is perhaps the most optimistic message of a really very difficult year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u23	The rapporteur for the Change Movement, Mr Constantine Scandalides, is called for in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I usually enter the debate on the issue we are discussing, and I do not want to deviate, but I was reading today a statement by the Prime Minister that 'we have succeeded in having Turkey as a threat to sanctions'. And honestly, "I've fallen from the clouds", gentlemen of the government. Was it not the sole objective, the ultimate objective, the easy target, that we would now, after all these months, succeed? And suddenly, a huge failure of government policy, national policy, is seen as a success and as our weapon for the next few months? By retreating, the country wins weapons against Turkey and the Turkish threat? It is very worrying, not only that defeat at the summit, but it is much more worrying that the Prime Minister of the country can change his political speech and his political goal from one moment to the next, not from one day to the next. There is no harm in accepting the failure of an attempt. And this, unfortunately, accompanies your Government and on all the big issues of the country's diverse crisis, both the external threat and the threat to immigration and the economy and the crisis and the pandemic above all. Ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to discuss the state budget in the top parliamentary procedure. Through the numbers, the percentages, the tables, the codes, we have to trace the path and the perspective of the economy and through this course of things in the country, the possibility that Greece today has to leave the tunnel of the multifaceted crisis and enter a time of growth. In the vortex of the grim pandemic that causes seismic turbulence throughout the planet, under precarious and insecurity conditions, the sense of self-sufficiency and certainty that the government is trying to convey does not stand on solid ground. It runs counter to the present Greek reality. The image of the country and the real economy is depressing. Global employment insecurity and increased unemployment, dramatically reducing incomes and pooring broad social strata, tightening up in businesses, auctions, increasing red loans and a public sector that is left alone, without the necessary support, to fight the adverse conditions in hospitals, schools, administrative structures. The second phase of the pandemic completely deprived the so-called foresight, preparedness, early planning and efficiency of dealing with the multiformal crisis in which the country is located. Despite adjusting the objectives, and today's version of the state budget is in the air. This is what happens when a government implements fragmentary and improper crisis response policies, when it puts its hopes for rapid recovery in the spring theory, when ignoring that we are at a time when classical economic theories look outdated, as developments are constantly wet and changing and insisting from the outset on implementing a mix of fiscal policy which in practice proves to be contradictory and incomprehensible. The budget you are proposing, ladies and gentlemen of the government, while it is unable to describe the present, promises and outlines a hopeful future, which is all but based on a real basis. It is a state-funded fox in predictions, from the outset unapplicable and ether-protected. He is deeply classic in choices as he defends the interests and pursuits of the few. It is not inspired by any kind of vision, no dynamic real reforms and twists, without which the economy cannot enter a re-start. And, of course, neither can the long-standing recovery of growth be effected, and in just a few months' time. It is a budget, in conclusion, which describes 2021 in transcendentally, cultivating expectations, in acute conflict with the harsh reality that citizens experience every day. Ladies and gentlemen, let us look more specifically at the sizes and objectives and above all about the government's budgetary policy mix to tackle the recession and crisis in 2020. It is this policy, which many months before the pandemic triggered the recession and the low growth rates from 2019 to March 2020. It is the same policy, which stubbornly insists on measures of fragmentary and improper choices that make the economy run behind the asympathetic events. It is the same policy that forces you to constantly review your estimates, when you have had to forget your initial assurance that the recession will not exceed 4%, which in the preliminary draft was changed to 8.5% and today it appears to be landing at 10.5%. I'm afraid, gentlemen of the government, it's going to be even bigger. And, of course, the urgency of your assumptions is reflected in the huge distance between the financial results of the preliminary draft, which we have just discussed in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy a few weeks ago. You will invoke her pandemic and repetitive blows. We will invoke the fact that a government, when developments look like moving sand, must formulate alternative scenarios that are integrated into a clear and comprehensive development plan, which for your Government does not exist. Unfortunately, the country has been experiencing the deepest recession for at least the last sixty years. The provision of 10.5% is certainly in the first place in the position of the countries of the European Union. When the forecast recession in the European Union on average is 7.8% and the forecast for 2021 is 4.2% growth, with what logic will Greece move from -10.5% to +4.8%? Is it enough to panacea the use of the EUR 5.5 billion package that you are actually supporting? Oh, I forgot. It has, meanwhile, been about 3.9 billion. In the rapporteur's report, all components of GDP, except public consumption, will be improved, and private consumption and gross fixed capital formation, and exports and imports of goods and services, and consumer price index and GDP deflator. Everything will grow spectacularly. Where does this optimism come from, which also requires a spectacular increase in productivity, business activity and the consumer capacity of society? Because it is looking forward to disbursing, even in advance, the EUR 3.9 billion? Let's get serious. Ask the market forces, entrepreneurs, workers and consumers who are preparing to spend witnessing celebrations and you will get the answer appropriate to the circumstances. The forecasts, unfortunately, are havoc. Increasing taxes from EUR 37.6 billion in recession-suspension conditions, which will certainly be extended to an undetermined extent within 2021 to EUR 43.6 billion. Indicative of the constant deterioration in the situation in the market is the increase in new dues by EUR 4,93 billion, of which 4,27 are taxes in the tenth month. Reducing unemployment to 17.9% when today's unemployment reaches 20%. Increase in private consumption to 13% from a drop of 7.6%. Increasing VAT revenues by 10.5% in a way that exacerbates the unequal relationship between indirect taxes and social injustice. At the same time, a reduction in revenue - from positive measures, as the government describes - amounting to just EUR 7.5 billion in support of income and employment. Whatever method you can measure, the account doesn't come out. By the way, why are you celebrating supposed growth of 2.3% in the third quarter of 2020? Based on your expectations of opening up tourism, the result should be much better than -11.7% that appeared in this quarter. And how do you justify the fact that the third quarter recession is the largest in Europe, while you say that your interventions to deal with the crisis as a percentage of GDP are among the highest? There's no explanation. It follows from all this that very quickly, since the first months of the new year, you have had to carry out corrective reviews. As the Prime Minister has shown today, however, it is easy to change the record, enter the other side and say the whole opposite thing. I'm afraid so. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, where your plan is embodied in its anti-linguistic and classic character and its anti-developmental direction, it is the allocation and management of available resources. With cowardly references it is true that both the Prime Minister - and at some point he said - "when necessary, I also make social-democratic policy" - and the Ministry of Finance, which leaks that it actually applies a policy of a centralised type, give the measures to tackle the pandemic and the distribution of resources an essentially non-existent dimension. You are baptizing aspirin therapy. This is indeed the first time that the country has such liquidity and this is a historic opportunity. The question is what possibilities you had as a government and where the sums made available were channelled. After many years, the country has room for organized intervention. The 37 billion cushion, combined with cheap lending and relaxation of budgetary constraints, creates a significant reserve. If one excludes the EUR 15.5 billion that goes to debt and cannot be used in this direction, the balances plus the funds of the Reconstruction Fund, plus the loan, form a chapter of about EUR 40 billion. You celebrate low borrowing rates, while you know very well that it is not your own achievement at all. It is due to the EUR 1.9 trillion allocated by the European Central Bank through the PEP. The increase in bonds in internal markets, for example, is EUR 11.6 billion, while in external markets it is almost stable at EUR 1.7 billion. I come to the banks, which were drawn from the EUR 31 billion programme and combined with the increase in deposits they have, in fact, gained liquidity for many years to meet. Unfortunately, according to the Bank of Greece’s Deputy Governor, while the amount of required available moves around EUR 2 billion, banks are holding over 20 billion frozen, which means that liquidity, which is channelled to the market, is significantly less than expected in relation to the amount of available resources. So here you have had the opportunity to channel much more resources and take extra measures. You didn't do it in the name of a housewife, supposedly, reasonable. Who did the money go to, like, a few? The way liquidity was channelled is provocative and unacceptable. Over a million Greek entrepreneurs, farmers, individual businesses and twenty-three thousand small and medium-sized enterprises, which all employ 88% of the private workers, have received only EUR 1.3 billion of this money, and three hundred large businesses with over 200 fifty employees, who employ the remaining 12%, have received EUR 3.7 billion. This explains the answer given to some small businessmen who went to the banks to enter into a law or benefit from the measures you have announced, "Let them go, they are already exhausted". This unequal and clearly unfair distribution clearly proves the deadlock of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of growth for the country. This provocative and unacceptable policy cannot be seen as an antidote to the inadequate positive measures taken by the government at the time. The situation is exacerbated by the absence of alternative financial instruments in the financial system. HERAKLIS, as we predicted, had "closed feet" and the bad bank we suggested, is in drawers. In the meantime, you do not put any pressure on the banking system to finally change the tactics and help relaunch the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the general social budget does not have a place in the logic of government planning, and this is reflected in the state budget. For 2021, social expenditure is reduced by EUR 1.7 billion for the insurance funds and by EUR 1 billion for the OAED. The most unequal, and inequality, is for the ESS, which is a protagonist in dealing with pandemic, but poor relative in the budgets and 2020 and 2021. The ESS and primary health care, which are trying to deal with the crisis, operate at about the same levels of expenditure as in 2019 and with less staff, as evidenced by the daily data we submit to the House. This socially unjust and, to a large extent, irrational policy proves the true nature and identity of the conservative government. It is no coincidence that in your programme texts, but also in the draft presented by the Pissaridis Committee, there is nowhere a sense of social justice, the interest in having a fairer distribution of wealth and income in that country. That is why the positive measures of 7.5 billion in support of incomes and employment are impossible to replace this provocative absence of any social sensitivity and, of course, they are lacking in Chinese or social-democratic policies. I now come to a long-standing development. The obvious gap in any development strategy the Prime Minister tried to cover it by recruiting a communication firework. He tried to respond in advance to our criticism of a lack of the medium-term programme, as required by European procedures. It has therefore speeded up the Pissaridis report to the forefront and to present the proposal put forward by the country to the European Commission for the Recovery Fund and the use of resources. I must tell you that we have carefully studied both texts in the Change Movement. We didn't get anything new, special, innovative. In fact, I am going to tell you that I am truly impressed by the profound analyses that fill in the printed and electronic press on the Pissaridis report and the so-called originality of the positions that have been put forward. It is a sum of proposals, objectives and priorities, most of which are found in party texts and programmes and, indeed, in a different social or ideological position. I must say that many of these proposals could also be signed by us, particularly those who are proclaimed and are facing real problems. We don't hide the head in the sand, like the ostrich, in front of the problems. We can find solutions. And some of them, in some areas in particular, have them in the Pissaridis report. However, it hides the real substance of its contents. Who could, for example, disagree with digitalisation everywhere, which is an undeniable necessity of the time, but which is not, brother, garnish on the plate you serve for every disease? Who could disagree with the national objective of increasing per capita income to 80% of the European Union average over the next decade? With what subdivision, however, to deal with huge income inequalities? Who could disagree with teleworking, telecommunications as a normal development of the 4th industrial revolution, if it were not accompanied, of course, by proposals for the dismantling of institutionalised industrial relations? Who could disagree with the uniform taxation of incomes from each source if he forgets the internal fair scale of burden-sharing? Who could disagree on the need for an insurance reform on the basis of intergenerational solidarity, if there was not, at the same time, a complete deterioration of the public security character? However, to return to the state budget, what are the hints linking these proposals of the report to the specific options for 2021? They are indiscreet and in no way an organic whole. Here the questions are catalytic, gentlemen of the government. What are the economic and social priorities of your policy and how are they illustrated in the budget? Undefined! What are the structural changes provided for in the budget, so that the package of resources can be used unnecessarily in a different way from the turtle speeds currently being done? Unexistent! With this state? With these banks? With this system of governance? What is the regional planning of resources and responsibilities, and in particular the decentralisation of decisions, so that both the regions of the country and the development institutions do not grow? It's lost on the horizon! How? With today's bleeding of self-government? By marginalising each representative institution? With the deeply centralised nature of the way of governance? What is the state's separate social budget and the planning of civil protection, which will enable the government to cope with the dismantling of the social state and the asymmetric threats? Only voids of content! With the fate of the ESS and the health staff in dealing with pandemic and natural disasters? We are not going to be disoriented from the opportunistic communication strategies. The reality is that neither this government has the will to develop a credible, comprehensive and broad democratic legitimisation plan for the use of available resources. And, of course, we cannot accept that so far management is only the result of failures or uncertainties. It is mainly a consequence of the structural inadequacy of the conservative governance model chosen by the country's specific party. Ladies and gentlemen, before I finish, I would like to say that this criticism does not begin with any opposition. We do not have the illusion that in the next few years the country may have balanced budgets. Not at all. The budgets will be deficits in order to address the depth and extent of the pandemic and economic crisis. We will support every effort to tackle this need at European level. We do not have the requirement that the government should deplete every group and allow the economy to run unreservedly and irresponsibly. However, your economic policy refuses to take advantage of the real opportunities offered by the juncture, but also to address the enormous social inequalities that are constantly widening and multiplying within the crisis. We don't even have the illusion that it can change the nature of the party it governs. It always remains a conservative force, as it appears in the governance model that it has chosen for the country. But you could contribute with a necessary minimum of national understanding, by accepting in time, and after assessing them, some of the proposals that we make and propose from the day you took over power in a systematic and continuous manner. You claim to return to normality. A normality at national level is constantly expanding social inequalities. We claim a new change that is fair and proportionate. You claim a European regularity in a European Union that is dominated by the policies of austerity and the divergence of levels of development between the North and the South and is unable to exercise a single geopolitical and economic strategy in an area of neuro-algal interests for it, such as the Eastern Mediterranean. We claim a new European treaty for a federal union that fairly shares its wealth among citizens, regions, Member States and at the same time strengthens its position on the global map and protects its members from threats. You claim the normality of a world where 2.8 billion inhabitants of the world have only half the property, from the one that accumulates just two thousand eight hundred twenty-five billion dollars, which have increased and won unconsciously in the pandemic crisis. We don't get comfortable with all this. Tell us romance, tell us refreshing, we want to change them. We don't think it's data. That is why we are formulating our own overall proposal, which is radically different from yours for the objectives, the preconditions and guidelines of a budget integrated into an integrated development plan for the country. A plan that clearly analyses how to trigger a real development alarm, how to complete the modern infrastructure, how to make use of the available sources of new wealth production, how to create regional development poles that will give identity to each region of the country, how to create the conditions by changing the state, institutions, reorganising the social state, developing integrated productive reconstruction plans. All this will be done with an interim programme to keep society up and the economy alive. A real-start program that will mark a wider regenerative course for the site. A programme based on real structural changes, progressive reforms and necessary modernisations. A programme that is not sufficient to deal with problems is not enough. It treats them structurally and contains hierarchical breakdowns of available resources. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government, another type of state budget is required to serve the objectives of repairing the place. The one we are talking about today, obviously, does not serve them. That is why we are voting against it, in addition to the defensive expenditure which we voted against last year, because you had it much smaller than the previous year and you blamed us for it. This year, fortunately, you have predicted something more about them and we are forced to vote with our own will.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u25	The general rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikos Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. The state budget for 2021 is being discussed in the midst of the second wave of pandemic with the government to cultivate fruits hopes that, thanks to the vaccine, we will also have a rapid return to normality, when the government - and not only - is aware of the deep causes of the crisis, which is a crisis of overcompensation of capital at a global level which cannot be invested by ensuring good profit rates for capitalists. There are examples of many, such as negative global interest rates on borrowing, global public and private debt, which is three times greater than world GDP. The government is aware - and not only - that the slowing down of the economy in our country, but also at European Union level and internationally started before the pandemic took place. For example, the industrial production index in the European Union and in the eurozone has been recording a fall since the end of 2017, that is, two years before a pandemic occurs. Of course, the pandemic also acted as a catalyst, played a role in the time and depth of the crisis. The various restrictive measures, such as partial or total lockdown, negative economic and social effects, are not due to an objective need due to pandemic, but are the result of the sad world-wide situation at the level of developed capitalist economies of public health systems. This sad image of public health systems is a result of its commercialisation. The competition for the medicine and also for the vaccine that occurs and is unfolding over the last few years shows nothing but the basic mark of the parasiticism of the system in which we live. The profits of the pharmaceutical industries are a priority at the expense of health. In vain, bourgeois policy tries to find the golden incision between reopening and taking restrictive measures. That is why the Government has also created such protocols, which were 'elastic', adapted to the needs of business groups or to the needs of the tourist current. It is therefore no coincidence that large workplaces proved to be fuss matrices for the outbreak of the pandemic. And from this point of view, these "cool" protocols have led to the second wave of pandemic. And that, of course, is not Greek originality. For example, today we see Germany moving before holidays in a general lockdown. The government is also aware of the estimates and forecasts of the depth of the crisis. For example, recent OECD estimates say that in 2021 the recovery in Greece will reach 0.9%. Nevertheless, it is delusional that, with its policy, the interests of all will be safeguarded by great state intervention. In these aspirations, the government has the useful opposition of SYRIZA, KINAL and other parties, for precisely all these parties agree on the cause of the crisis: it is the pandemic! They also agree on how to manage the crisis. State aid is said by everyone together in business and workers, that is to say, by reproducing the unfaithful finding that we are all on the same boat, putting water on the mill of national unity, in other words calling on the people to put back on the rescue of businesses, once again sacrificing the satisfaction of their own needs on the altar of capitalist profit. At the same time, all these parties know that there are no unlimited opportunities for state intervention. They know very well both the government and SYRIZA and KINAL and the others that these limits are determined by the high state but also private debt that exists in our country and the European Union. In addition, the Eurozone's internal dispute is fading for the management of government debts, because for the next period there is a return to budgetary discipline with the people being called upon to pay the broken amounts of this budget diversion. A state intervention, of course, which seeks to prevent the rapid deterioration of the position of the populace, from preventing the rapid increase in unemployment by temporarily suspending its manifestation for the next few months, for the new year, to temporarily prevent mass bundles of professionals, traders and self-employed. Instead of now opening up small retail outlets in compliance with all protection measures, the government proceeded to click away. We must say here that this is an intelligent one, because in essence only 15% of smuggling has an e-shop, that is, it can make e-commerce. And at the same time, there is a drop of over 80% in the small shops of the retail trade. So all these measures by the government and through pandemic are in the interest of the large trade chains. On the substance, the Government reserves mass padlocks for 2021. It is well known that the estimates written in "KATHMERINI" that in the first months of 2021 we will have over 2,000 small and micro-enterprises in the first few months of 2021. While the fatality of state funding, but also of European funding, will go to the major business groups. At the same time, the government is making use of State intervention to impose new counter-measures in the name of labour protection and we are now suspending contracts, we have rotational work and work, we have reductions in insurance contributions, we have reductions in wages - the 'COMPANY - WORK' programme is called - but also cover for pay and insurance expenditure on the part of the State with the benefit of business groups. We have recycled unemployment with these active employment programmes, such as the EUR 200 grant programme and for six months of the recruitment of long-term unemployed and the cover and insurance contributions. So, for free, the long-term unemployed will work for business groups. And at the same time, with the EUR 200, the average wage is even more squeezing. Of course, these measures are temporary. It will not last as long as the pandemic, as is confirmed by the experience of the respective Memorandum Laws, which typically ended the Memorandums, but all the Rival Memorandum Laws remain. Of course, these are for today. It is of even greater value to see what the government is preparing for the next day. The government is preparing the ground for new worse measures with situations and conditions which come to the detriment of the working class, to the detriment of the self-employed, to the detriment of the small and medium-sized farmers, to the detriment of the young and the women of the populace. The anti-grassy content of the Pissaridis project was based on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan for the use of 32 billion of the European Development Fund. At the heart of this project is the green and digital transition that in essence seeks to support major investment projects, providing a large number of tax and financial incentives, making it easier to concentrate the land on less and less hands, to change the use of land, as the new spatial plan does. The new bankruptcy code facilitates public-private partnerships to create the necessary infrastructure and support this transition path in the green and digital economy. In other words, commercialisation plays a greater role in infrastructure, expands trade as in the health sector, speeds up the privatisation and exploitation of public property. At the same time, this project goes on to adapting the labour market to the new needs of business groups by flexibly focusing on the time-tier in the name of adjusting working time and, at the same time, reducing insurance contributions and strengthening the capitalisation of insurance as a saving instrument to finance new investments. So the insurance funds with the capitalisation system will be donors and sponsors of monopolies and multinationals as they become. These reversals in the labour market and in insurance are not today. They have been politely sponsored by all previous governments and the government goes a step further. The consequences of this plan for the next day are very specific. The concentration of the economy and the sectors of the economy will be even more accelerated in ever less large business groups. We will have a great reduction in the number of small businesses, a deterioration in working-class life, an increase in exploitation, and an increase in productivity and work as a key tool for this increase in exploitation, in addition to overturning, increased productivity and labour. We will have additional destruction of productive capacities for which the big capital is not interested because they do not guarantee high profitability. For example, the extrovert that you are all talking about, the use of comparative advantages for business groups, which you are all accepting, tourism, green energy, investment in the RES, the transit centre is a plan and model that all governments have served and serves today. This very model is responsible for the deeper manifestation of the capitalist crisis in the Greek economy. We will also have the widening of the ladder between the possibilities and the extent to which people's needs are met. For example, liberalisation of the electricity market, combined with greater involvement of RES, leads to more accurate energy by multiplying the risks of energy poverty. The government plan is not the result of New Democracy's ideas, nor is it a Greek peculiarity. This meets the requirements of capital, but also the guidelines of the European Union for the promotion of restructuring that will shield the competitiveness of the economy in conditions of hard competition with other imperialist centres. That is why new supervisory mechanisms have been decided to monitor the progress of restructuring in order to allow the funds of the European Development Fund to be disbursed, the creation of which has been the result of a temporary compromise within the European Union and the growing competition within the European Union. These are contradictions relating to the way the damage is shared between the Member States and the profits from the crisis. I would like to point out that it was not expressed by any government, regardless of whether it is liberal, social-democratic or central-left, any objection at all to the anti-linguistic content of the restructuring that is going on in the European Union. In this territory of the European Union, the New Democracy's policy with that of SYRIZA, KINAL, Mer25 is being met, with their agreement on green and digital transition as a common component. The state budget, ladies and gentlemen, is a redistribution tool - and this has always been - for the benefit of the few. He takes it from the many to give it to the few. Within this framework of government policy in pandemic conditions, the state budget for 2021 is also included. The evidence confirming its anti-grass and classic character can be very specific. I'll limit them so we don't get lost in the number of numbers. For example, tax revenue provides for an increase in tax revenue of EUR 3.5 billion, 8% compared with 2020. Of these 2.5 billion are concerned with increasing anti-popular indirect taxes. In other words, we have a further deterioration in the anti-grassroots ratio of indirect and direct taxes. From 54.7% in 2020, we now go to 55.8% in 2021. It's a whole unit. This negative change in the correlation between indirect and direct taxes is the main indicator for confirming the anti-grassroots character of the tax system. In the context of this anti-grassroots character, it is also crucial to contribute to the measures to strengthen tax competition which creates more and more conditions of tax haven for investments and monopolies. The result of these tax havens is, for example, the "CAPITAL" post from "FORBES", which says that the three richest people in America and the world should not pay any income tax at all. I'll file it later in the Minutes. This is the result of tax havens. Tax competition in conditions of budgetary discipline and primary surpluses by 2060 and we see it will increasingly carry tax burdens on the backs of the people. This need to strengthen the competitive character of the tax system is another common component for both the tax system between the government and the other parties. A recent example confirming their common anti-grassroots logic of the tax system, in addition to the provocative tax exemptions for logistics, which all together refused to abolish Article 107 of the Constitution in the recent constitutional review or reduce tax rates for businesses and distributed profits, is property taxation. The main tax is HNVIA on real estate taxation, and each year, it pays tax revenues of EUR 2.6 billion. The basic tax exemption on real estate tax is the exceptions to Article 15 of Law 3090/2002, which are exempted from the tax on immovable property held by different undertakings, such as shipping or offshore. What is the amount of revenue, as calculated by the State General Accounting Office in the tax expenditure report? It's 3.6 billion on an annual basis. What does that mean? Instead of abolishing ENPIA, and New Democracy and SYRIZA preferred to maintain this scandalous discharge for the great real estate, the abolition of which would bring more to the public funds than HNPI. Let's go to the expense. We have a freeze and a shrinking of social costs, such as health, in the midst of a pandemic of EUR 572 million. Here there is a gloomy controversy between the other parties and the government on social expenditure. It is unfathomable because of their shared nature within the framework of the respective European Union policy on targeted policies for the benefit of vulnerable sections, instead of social costs that will provide free and upgraded health, education and welfare services for all the people. This logic of targeted expenditure together with the reactionary logic of freedom of choice is also the basis. Why, after all, do the unemployed or the low pensioner have any choice? To choose between private and public hospitals? Go to the best hospital abroad? No, of course not. This logic was therefore the reason for the continuing trade in social needs, for the development and action of the private sector in health, education, welfare, for the deterioration of the public sector, for the shortcomings in infrastructure, equipment and staff - and for the New Democracy and PASOK and SYRIZA have closed hospitals - for the overturning of labour relations, contractors, orientated, subsidiary and also for the creation of the financial area to support the competitiveness of the economy and investment. At the same time, armaments expenditure is increased by 400%. Of the 500 million reaches 2,500 for 2021, in combination with about 4, billion, which is our annual participation in Natali spending. These are equipment related to the imperialist American designs, which are part of the achievement of the objective of the urban order for the geostrategic upgrading of Greece, another common place of the other parties. And this geostrategic upgrade where does it lead? In gaining a greater share of the Greek bourgeoisie by the imperialist pits made at the expense of the markets, the wealthy sources and the peoples of the region. It is a fact which is also the factor of exacerbating the contradictions between the urban ranks of Greece and Turkey, undermining Turkish aggression. Do all of you really have anything to say about your allied guarantors after the summit, all those who considered the guarantors of the sovereign rights of the country and of the borders? Of course it is clear where the Council' s decision leads to maintaining the very large economic relations which have strong states of the European Union, Germany, Italy, Spain and Turkey, but that Turkey remain in NATO's arms. We have in the state budget accelerating privatisation, increasing government debts. So the nipple deepens in the neck of the people. They will, after all, be invited to take the chestnuts out of the fire, that is to say, pay taxes. And along with this anti-grassroots policy and its escalation, the political escalation of authoritarianism, terrorism and repression, employers in the workplace and state as well. Of course, neither is the government originalising here, but it goes hand in hand and copying what is happening in the European Union with very recent examples of Italy and France. They seek to shield the bourgeois state and protect the interests of the bourgeoisie against the people's challenge. They seek to slander, but also to suppress radicalisation. This road isn't a one-way road. It is not fatal to open the lanes globally between the possibilities offered by the new technology, but also the conditions experienced by the people's layers, insecurity, health risks and illiteracy, worsening the position of the people's layers, and the benefits of redistributing impoverishment. It is not fatal to concentrate wealth on a handful of people. There is here the recent post from "THE VIMA", where 1% of the world's richest population owns 43.4% of the world's property, while, on the contrary, 53.6 of the poor owns only 1.4% of the world's wealth. This accumulation of wealth in less hands is precisely the result of the capitalist way of developing the economy. That is why the response of all, Europe, the United States and Greece to this huge increase in social inequalities is globally what? Poverty management allowances. That is why you have drafted them, because they will mark wide popular strata. Learn him to live with mere poverty benefits while wealth in the hands of a few is growing, growing. It is not fatal, we respond as a JRC, new technology and increased productivity of work to lead to increased exploitation of the working class, to create new hardships for the working class, to loss of millions of jobs, to increase unemployment, to new alternative overturns. And it is right that the government puts in the rapporteur's report on page 15 that innovation is one of their imbalance factors. You recognize it, but you can't deal with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u27	Mr. Comrade, you see the time, don't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u28	I'll be done in a minute. Thank you very much for your tolerance. You cannot deal with it because this is capitalism, unfair, parasitic, with crises and wars. What's the answer? Socialism. Because in socialism, when it is social property, the means of production and the achievements of technology, then we will have the freedom of workers. They'll work a lot less hours and be paid a lot longer. They will have extended their leisure time, so they can make creative use of it. This demonstrates the pragmaticity, but also the supremacy of socialism. The workers who are today in capitalism will be the true protagonists of developments with active participation and decision-making and power, but also the control of decisions. Central scientific planning, social ownership in the European Union-release means of production will contribute to the organisation of production by exploiting all production capacities to meet social needs. On this path of overthrow, we call on the people to walk on the road leading to social liberation. This is where the wages, the protection of the unemployed, the support for self-employed, must be converged in order to ensure a satisfactory income in poorer-sized farms, the debt relief and health and safety protection, on the road to the real adversary, a wide-ranging social alliance can be created. The real rival is monopolies, it is the power of capital and not just the government. We're projecting radical wrestling targets.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u29	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, I can't give you any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u30	One more word, Mr President, and I'm done. We need to get rid of imperialist designs. That is why today is a one-way for the people to fight for Greece and for the Europe of socialism. With this, Mr President, we say that the JRC is voting against the State Budget of 2021.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u31	Good. Mr Villiardos will now be given the floor from Greek Solution, then Mr Arsenis from Mera25 and I would like to inform him that the Minister for Finance has asked me to make a first speech a few minutes after Mr Arsenis. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. We shall begin with our reference to last year's debate, according to which the government's budget at the time had no national vision and no economic planning, which is only one management tool for the control of receipts. Unfortunately, to our great regret, because what we are interested in is Greece and the Greeks, especially our children, we have verified in the worst possible way, although we did not know at the time that the government would be so fierce about the Greeks to vote for the bankruptcy law - an abortion that would give them the graceful shot. When the budget was drawn up in 2021, the preliminary draft of which was thrown into the trash in less than a month after it was deposited, making a record in our country's historical times, we have detailed our reservations as to whether it is realistic for its forecasts to be based on the wrong measures taken for our economy. We have also raised our objections to the logic of individual funds, as well as to our conviction that public debt is not viable at 208% of GDP now for the general government and at 227% for the central government, nor, of course, the red private who is alone in world history. It's never happened before. We will be tabling our own detailed proposals in the Minutes with their documentation, since it is impossible to mention them all in the minimum time available to us. Continuing, adverse economic developments and uncertain prospects are mainly the consequence of the government's lack of a serious economic programme, despite its pre-election announcements of six hundred thousand jobs, where the only ones we have seen were the staffing of the state in the State. It was now understood that there was no plan to tackle the pandemic, apart from the media premium, when we had not yet had many cases, while, when tourism was opened with few ICUs, without controls and problematic software, after the proven pressures exerted by TUI through the German Government, the situation deteriorated considerably. The unsatisfactoryly planned and inefficient lockdown, imposed, together with the regressions in the masks or opening of schools, have had a horrifying effect on both our health and our economy, and will cause medium- and long-term major problems in education in the mental health of the population and so on. Generally now, the government has adopted its policy of'seeing and doing', while it applies the troika's directives faithfully, as concluded by the evaluations of enhanced supervision, which, if you read them, predicts the future without having to be a dissident. With loan money it subsidizes the economy and moves the country's obligations into the future, with the illusion that Greece will return to a normality of business, despite the radical change in the global economic environment. Besides, it does not realize that low interest rates and easy borrowing have an end date. So he has taken no measures so that our economy can cope when this time arrives. On the contrary, after the EUR 22,8 billion loan needed in 2020 to cover deficits and interest without even debt, it plans to borrow about EUR 23 billion in 2021 for the same reason, although it will need more that it may find, simply because the European Central Bank will continue to buy Greek bonds, according to yesterday's announcements. With regard to repos for the first time in 2014 to 88.5 billion euros and to their over-estimating prediction of a reduction to EUR 725 billion in 2021, when 2020 was a total of 1.2 trillion, the Minister has declared that the reserves of the public agencies are being used, which means that the pillow is non-existent, since the remaining 15.7 billion cannot be touched without the approval of the ESM. More generally, however, the government's forecasts are really tragic, such as the recession, where, while we forecast it in -10% since April, the Minister said -4% and today -10.5%. Also, on the level of deflation, it puts it in the budget at -1.1%, when ELSTAT announced -1.8% annually in October and - 2.1% in November. This means that the real interest rates that our country pays are corresponding to SYRIZA's times, unfortunately, while the government is proclaiming the names, to substantiate its supposed success and supposed confidence in the markets. Finally, we must refer again to the preliminary debate on the adoption of the 2018 Balance sheet, because it gives us the picture where we are, while the budget to where we are heading. Obviously, if we do not know where we are, as is concluded by the brutal errors and omissions of perforation at the Court of Auditors, we are not going anywhere, since we are literally heading blindly. Therefore, drawing up a good balance sheet should be our first and main priority, and at least the German war loan, which is undeniable, should be registered. Why don't you do it? Furthermore, our economy with the appearance of pandemic has highlighted its structural weaknesses: its great dependence on tourism, the twin deficits that have reappeared, the lack of marketable products, the unsustainable public and private debt as a result of monuments, the lack of liquidity and the failure to carry out domestic investments. Under these circumstances it is almost impossible to recover and exit the ten-year crisis, and what is envisaged is the accumulation of even greater debts, for which we will be asked to be even more painful exchanges, as the delivery of Macedonia's name against the extension of EUR 95 billion to after 2030. The German-German attitude of the German Union to Turkey is clearly stated yesterday. We will be asked again for national exchanges. At the same time, through the seizures and the auctions of private property - yesterday I looked at it was over eighty-five thousand posted seizures - if there is no serious deletion of private debt under income physical criteria, the country's property regime will change, with the Greeks transforming them into cheap debt slaves and guests in their own homeland. However, the only thing that has been served for at least the last 10 years is the maintenance of the political and economic status quo, namely those who have been bankrupt and continue to suck off Greeks, i.e. the oligarchs and foreigners, at an exorbitant cost. [[At this point the B' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Incidentally, Minister, have you reached a compromise with the 'FRAPORT', as we will be tabling in the Minutes? If so, when will you bring it to the House? Continuing, Greece had the lowest economic performance in the third quarter of 2020 at a growth rate of more than 11.7% compared to the corresponding 2019 quarter on an annual basis, as well as just plus 2.3% compared to the previous one. At the same time, the other European countries - even with significant tourism - have recovered, while the Eurozone averaged 12.6% compared to the previous quarter. The losses of the Greek low income classes in 2020 reached the scary but 12%. All of what we say here is documented with sources and tables, which we have in our proposals and which we shall be tabling in the Minutes. This fact substantiates our country's excessive dependence on tourism, especially from the cheap mass. And obviously, tourism will not return in 2021 to the levels of 2019 if it never returns. Even worse, according to the forecasts of the World Health Organisation for a next pandemic, our economy must be prepared immediately, and our economy must cease to depend on external factors, especially mass tourism, which, in addition to many of its disadvantages, carries pandemics. In any case, the virus should not be treated as a problem, but as a window of opportunity, of changing our wrong economic and tourist model. Our country's productive weaknesses seemed clear when, in the midst of a pandemic, the government was not at first able to launch domestic production of first-needed items, such as masks, protective costumes, plastic gloves, antiseptics, tests and respirators. Today, of course, masks are being produced, which is relatively simple, but the rest continue to be introduced, with the result that there are deficiencies and revaluations, which have led to the imposition of tests, a kind of liberal statement, as is seen by the hundreds of thousands of civil servants who have been hired since 2014, which has no logic or is not possible to apply to all the other products found to be horrendous, such as in the foods of supermarkets that have been expensive by almost 40%. What is needed is a change in our production model, which clearly precedes the increase in exports proposed by the Pissaridis study. The main reason for this is that exports cannot increase significantly when market goods are not produced, let alone internationally competitive prices. In particular, the study proposes exports to the industrial sectors. On what products, though, when our industry has collapsed to 8% to 9% of our GDP, with the European Union being at 15%, with the aim, as we all know, of 20%? With domestic investment in the range 14.3% compared with 2019 in the budget? You are using the strange logic of basing our exports on the performance of countries of a similar population. But how can Greece, for example, be compared with the Czech Republic and Portugal, with countries of similar size, when these two states produce cars, which are a large part of their exports, while Greece does not? The Portuguese automotive industry accounts for 4% of its GDP and 11% of its exports by 25 000 direct jobs. As far as the Czech Republic is concerned, it is the basis of the German automotive industry. On the contrary, Greece is the only country in the European Union, along with Malta, which has no such production, while cars are a key part of our timeless trade deficit. In our view, therefore, we must first create a production base and then set ourselves the objective of increasing exports. Unless, of course, the European Union is committed to importing Greek products so that our debt can also be repaid, as had been done with the regulation of German debt in 1953. Greece, however, has never had a targeted development programme and a national vision since its accession to the European Union and to its economic convergence that has been completely lost with the memoranda. As regards the economy as a whole, it focused on consumption by credit, business interests, imports and tourism, which was an easy solution. Shipping and shipyards were lost by Greece in relation to its capacity, as well as the once powerful textiles, the clothing sector, the steel industry, electrical consumer products, footwear, the automotive industry, etc. The final result, combined with the incorrect macroeconomic policy that continues, was deindustrialisation, bankruptcy, deinvestment and the fleeing of our young people abroad, and even when labour costs were reduced through internal devaluation, Greece has never recovered its competitiveness. In this context, our original proposals on pandemic were aimed at using the money that has been productively spent, to subsidise labour and not to promote sustainable development, since at some point the money will be finished. In conclusion, we will only mention in summary our proposals later, starting with the budgets, where instead of giving the job suspension allowance of EUR 534 for six months by summer, it is better to use the same total amount as a wage subsidy for the whole of 2021 at the same cost. At the same time, other benefit recipients could be encouraged to integrate themselves into appropriately established public services and business support programmes so that they do not lose contact with society and with the labour market. In our calculations we have included a small provision of about EUR 2.7 billion for tax and deferred contributions. There will be one, one must foresee them. Also, a second, in the order of 1.76 billion, for the only partial solution to the major problem of post-dated cheques. The solution we are proposing is to provide state guarantees for the securitisation of these cheques with a view to their gradual liquidation. As far as loans to the real economy are concerned, we believe that more needs are needed, because demand and needs are much larger, while banks do not provide the funding they need. Besides, she's being absorbed by the state, by the state. In view of the fact that small and medium-sized enterprises do not have access to funding, we propose that they should be given a loan from the 32 billion-dollar recovery package of the European Union, particularly to innovative ones, of those committed to digitisation and green development projects. In addition to loans, they should be given other facilities such as the suspension of municipal fees, traffic charges, etc. For our health, our proposal is to increase the funds - on 2020, but not what is planned for 2021 - by 200 million for the hospital sector, for equipment and for allowances, as well as for the EUR 100 million for free tests of the whole population and tourists. On the other hand, production should be supported, considering it unacceptable to increase the price of oil by the end of green energy, especially for farmers, rather than seeking to reduce it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need three more minutes, Mr. President. With regard to the increase in revenue from taxation - we have seen the paradox of increasing VAT in the budget when GDP was lower - our proposal is to repatriate Greek companies mainly from Bulgaria, where there are six thousand productive Greek companies employing fifty-three thousand people and having a turnover of EUR 5 billion. As an incentive we propose that they be given a lower rate of taxation for five years, like the Greeks abroad, to return. Really, Minister, what is the progress of the REBRAIN GREECE programme? We haven't received any information at all. Furthermore, a solution needs to be found for the large companies that have been transferred to Luxembourg, Belgium and elsewhere, such as ‘BIOHALCO’, ‘FAG’ and ‘TITAN’. Most importantly, however, it is the increase of the Public Investment Programme to EUR 11 billion from just EUR 6.75 billion planned, with its disposal only for productive investments, as well as for the provision of basic needs in our country, such as loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, environmental protection, etc. With regard to the recovery package of 32 billion, our proposal is instead to make available for the digitisation of the public sector, for RES and for related projects, such as the connection of Crete to Attica, which serves specific business interests, to be used in the following: For digital projects in high-tech agriculture and national security, for green investments in the electricity supply of the primary sector, for biomass facilities and for energy savings. This is because many jobs can be created which Greece absolutely needs. In relation to the fair transition plan, we propose that the money should be used for other green investments, such as for the production of energy saving electric vehicles and reducing pollutants, for production, not for import. Privatisations should not be carried out under the present conditions, while national resources other than those mentioned above must be made available to the following, which I will mention briefly only, due to a lack of time. First, in the primary sector. Secondly, in the defence industries. Thirdly, in the pandemic problematic businesses, not those who work, not those who close, in the interior tourism that needs to be increased to at least EUR 300 million from EUR 100 million last year, in the productive core of electricity mobility and high technology, and finally in shipbuilding and shipping. In addition, hydrocarbon deposits surveys should be accelerated in the already auctioned areas, as well as competitions for the remaining, at least south of Crete, should be launched. Finally, the partial deletion of the private debt against the public debt, which is not recorded in its assets, and also in banks which have already created forecasts for more than 60% of their claims. In conclusion, I would like to say that if our proposals are implemented quickly and correctly, the growth rate in our economy could reach at least 10 % in 2021, with great benefit both for the public and for the private sector, creating more than three hundred thousand jobs. Why, gentlemen of the government, do you not allow Greece to have this development that is entitled to? Can't the Germans allow you to steal what we have? But why do you keep beating your head? Are they blackmailing you? In what way? Of course we will vote against the budget for all the reasons we have just mentioned, except for the defensive expenditure which has finally increased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u33	Thank you, too, Mr. Villardo. The rapporteur-General of Mera25, Mr Kriton Arsenis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we should speak in every budget about climate change, this great crisis that threatens our production, our lives, our society as a whole. But what climate change does this budget not even talk about the health crisis, which does not give elementary answers to this huge crisis - have we reached over a hundred families every day mourning our people - a budget that reduces health expenditure? I feel awkward to be here in front of you and discuss this budget, a futileity, because we all know that it is a budget that is not to be implemented. The government knows, the Minister knows. The ministers know that this budget will never be implemented. He was ready at a time when the government announced to us that he would stop the lockdown in December. It is based on assumptions that are different for the recession, different for the economic collapse of family businesses, for the health crisis and for revenue. The government tells us that this was a given, there is great ambiguity, all the countries are like that. Is it true given the situation in which we have arrived? Is it a given that this lockdown would be done anyway? Was it inevitable? In the first wave Greece was lucky. We have had a very small report in China and in the countries from which the coronary was mainly spread. You did not take advantage of that, ladies and gentlemen of the government. This grace period was not used to prepare the Public Health System, but you proceeded consciously in opening Greece to the exhibition through the opening to tourism. As a result, it was wrong to open up if we put down the revenue and the victims we are mourning at the moment. But beyond that, at the summit you did not have the courage to negotiate anything. We saw Hungary go through what it wants in practice and Greece gets nothing. Just like this summer. The multinational tourism has come and you have been told "we will come to Greece only if you have no protection" and you have accepted it. In fact, no checks were carried out, just sample checks, with a algorithm that was what? A scientist wrote to the Prime Minister an e-mail. The Prime Minister found this experimental method very interesting, he promoted it to Mr Chiodra and the infectious and the Committee on Logistics approved a mathematical algorithm, without any mathematical and statistical in there. That was the protection measure in the summer. You continued, of course, because as you left the country completely unprotected in the first real exposure to the coronary, at the same time you did not take any health measures. At the moment, the House, with 8m euros, made a fifty-pound MF in "Salvation". Think, then, of what you could do with EUR 400 million. You could do two and a half thousand I.T.s, Minister. But why don't you just move on to recruitment? Why don't you get on with the equipment? Why don't you move on to the necessary units? Because you do not want to deviate from your basic objective, which is to privatise health. With a strong National Health System, privatization would be unjustified. You want to avoid that at all costs. Of course, I would like to tell you that in the name of the Members and the House you must not continue with these toys. We saw a radiologist leaving San Savva penalisingly because he reacted as president of the employees in the SADs that you put the doctors and sanitaries who glued the coronary, and sent him to the Savvas to the "Save". The radiologist at the "Saint Savva", who is an anticancer hospital, saves lives. In "Save", where you send him punishment, it will work as an unskilled doctor. And, of course, we heard things that are not standing, from Mr Petsa, who told us that thankfully you didn't invest in the ICUs, to Mr Gerapeitris, who told us that the countries that have more ICUs have more dead. Things that constitute lies, leaps of reason. Obviously anyone who sees the evidence will find that countries that have a better response to this health crisis are those who have more IF per inhabitant, who have strong health systems. But what was the public health system in which you chose not to invest, not to strengthen it to privatise it? The Greek health system for which between 2007 and 2018 expenditure fell by 43%, when the largest other reduction in Europe was in Portugal by 8.7% and Spain followed by 1%. All other countries increased expenditure, with Germany increasing by 40%, France by 25%. If we go to medical products, machinery and health equipment, our country reduced expenditure between 2009 and 2018 by 54%. In this country you have come not to invest in health and prepare yourself for the coronary. But why are we talking about the coronary in this budget? Because this is now the cause of additional recession, additional unemployment, additional dismantling of our productive tissue. In this context and with all your intentional oligopoly, your oligopoly strategy, you come and reduce health costs. In the Ministry of Health the ceiling on expenditure from EUR 4,83 billion is reduced to EUR 4,26 billion. We wonder why. Do you think the health crisis is over? You invest too much that the vaccine has solved everything when you know that any result will take months. And you want to tell us that you have ensured that the health crisis is over, at the same time that people who lose their lives every day, at the same time as raising the defence ministry's costs from 3.9 billion to 5.5? You want to tell us that you are fighting with Turkey, but not with the coronary? Is that what you tell the citizens? Also, your budget is based on irresponsible assumptions. Good from the bad scenario in this budget is 1% of GDP, when in these cosmo-historic times good from the bad scenario can be 10% to 15% of GDP. He said, of course, that "you know, our creditors and rating houses will also read our assumptions and take them into account in their evaluation". It is not possible for the country's budget to be based on realistic forecasts for any reason. I move on to page 39 below for the formation of fixed capital. In 2021, ladies and gentlemen! - it will increase by 23.2%. Is that really something like this ever happened in Transmolitan? Tell us countries that have managed to increase by 23% the formation of fixed capital, when it is estimated that consumption will increase by 3%. Why so unscrupulous predictions? But for a very simple reason: because you anticipate - and you are committed to this, Minister, and to the Eurogroup - that 2021 begins austerity and proceed to privatisation, the reduction of deficits, etc. is beginning. It is your commitment to Eurogroup, Minister. There is a commitment to Eurogroup for primary surpluses since 2021.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u35	Where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u36	We've told you, we've brought it to you, I've read it both in Greek and English. You may not remember, but the citizens and the Minutes remember them, though. Privatisations. Here are indeed stripped of all the governments that promoted privatisation. We see that the concessioned road networks and the concessioned airports, in these businesses, are giving hundreds of millions of euros. If the roads were public, would you give these amounts to public airports? Who? No, of course not. You wouldn't give it to me. Here, you received 80 million from the privatisation of "OLYMPIAKIS" and you give "AGEAN" to its market in the final, 120 million euros. We now know that at times of crisis all privatisations and PPPs prove to be a great fiasco. Long-term evidence of a large loss of revenue, a multiple-type loss for the public sector. You, of course, now also proceed to the PPPs with guaranteed quantities of waste, overcompensated. The commission has come to tell you about the PPP in the Peloponnese PPP that it is, due to over-division and over-cost, illegal state aid to a private company. That's what you're moving on. But we'll agree on a number with you. Poverty in 2019 reaches 42%. 42% of our fellow citizens are at the limit of poverty. A shocking number. It's really a confession on your part. Tell us, Minister, these poor fellow humans, how they will pay back the'sustainable debt' you are considering in the budget. You see that it is sustainable and that in the near future we will be able to repay. How exactly will this public debt be repaid by these people? What we should see in this budget are essential measures for climate change, with a steep subsidy for energy communities, for the installation of photovoltaics on each roof, small wind turbines on each roof, so as to strengthen the incomes lost by this huge crisis. In health we have the opening of hospitals that you have booked from 2013 to today, with IF, with recruitments that will help not only GDP, but will support employment at a moment that is our big bet for the next day. In education, to stop PPPs that increase the fixed costs for the budget. To be recruited in the establishment plan, which will help GDP and employment, which is our bet for the next day. To protect citizens from bankruptcy, by abolishing the "HRAKLE" and the 12 billion guarantees, by abolishing the Banking Code and protecting private property, by supporting the income of citizens who are currently losing their jobs and incomes, who lose their businesses, with employment, work and production at the centre. Instead, we see the great social hole you create in western Macedonia since liberation. That is what we support. But without a special transition plan, Minister? Any "abnormality" you include instruments for mass development of RES from three major companies in practice and the funding of what you propose will be approved in 2022 and you will have to implement them all in 2023, even the ones you are going to implement. How will you manage the full production of this area in one year? It hasn't happened anywhere in any country. In no country such shocks have been overcome faster than 15 years. How are you gonna make it? Go over there to create a social hole with a complete collapse of employment, along with the end of the fur that has come. And that's not why you're getting ready. And it'll hit Castoria and Siatista in full. In other words, the blow to Western Macedonia will be completed. We invite you to stop these waste, too, which will increase the cost for families. You want to invest? Investment in recycling. Make the trash financial resource. At the moment we have recyclable waste, which we have no structures to recycle, we do not have structures to turn them into revenue. Do this. You are, of course, telling us that you have no money for all of this. Really? Remove HARAKEL, release the 12 billion guarantees. Really, don't you have any money? Add tax to the large internet colosses, 4% on Facebook, Netflix, Amazon and so on. Most citizens now, staying at home, have been connected to Netflix. From the money they pay to Netflix, no drachma goes to the Greek State. From the money they pay to Amazon to buy products that compete with our small businesses and does not go to the Greek State. Is it possible, once the Greek businesses, small shops, have to pay their taxes? On Facebook the content is produced by the people involved and this production, this good produced, is also not taxed. Why don't you make a 4% tax on the cigarette? It will lead to revenues of about 1 billion a year. It will cover the ICUs and staff recruitment at hospitals forever. It'll meet so many needs. Why don't you move on to this? Other countries in Europe have done so. Tell us why you don't move on. We call on you to bring a budget with realistic estimates, which responds to the health crisis, which responds to the abolition of production, employment, which responds to bankruptcy and poverty. Yours turns the crisis and all these sufferings into a terrible opportunity for the very few you serve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr Arseni. The Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have listened very carefully to all the rapporteurs. I'd like to submit enough evidence. I believe that it will be a 'food' for fertile debate and I hope, from now on, that we will at least exchange mature views and discuss on a common basis away from triumphs, but also from dangers, with realism, responsibility and modesty, presenting the whole picture, not fragments and, of course, from aerial and irresponsible auctions. I heard the last colleague say that we are committed to primary surpluses in 2021. But the budget has primary deficits. What are you telling us? We have agreed on fiscal flexibility at least in 2021. But other budgetary flexibility and other financial derailment. I heard colleagues from the Opposition suddenly remember only the third quarter of 2020. They'll have the whole picture. Why did they forget the image of the first semester? First of all - all of all - I will put it out in the Minutes - because for the first quarter Greece was finally having a positive rate of growth when people here in the Chamber were talking about recession. See where the other countries are. Why did they forget the second quarter? Because in the second quarter Greece was again better than in Europe's average than in all the countries of the south. Indeed, the third quarter was an extremely bad quarter for the Greek economy. You asked why. If you saw ELSTAT's evidence, they say so. The third quarter was exclusively due to the sharp decline in exports of services due to the degrading of tourism. We won as a country EUR 3.5 billion in the nine-month period from tourism, while last year it was EUR 16.1 billion. Again, however, at the level of nine months Greece's image is better than the European average. I have heard that Greece is borrowing at a lower cost because it is the PEPP of the European Central Bank. In October 2019, when we borrowed a ten-year bond with a third of the costs that last borrowed the previous government had a health crisis, did we have a PEPP? So let's talk responsibly. Obviously, the PEPP and the European Central Bank have helped to continue lending at low cost. But the main factor in reducing the country's borrowing costs is confidence in the government and its policies. I have heard that we are regularly reviewing the evidence and that I said in March that the country will have development. Apparently, I did. The European Central Bank said in March that it will have growth throughout Europe. The European Commission has said the same. France said "zero" and went to minus six, minus eight, minus ten, minus eleven. I'm sorry, but you're out of place and time. Everyone is reviewing their assessments, because very simply no one knows the intensity and extent of the economic crisis. And they don't change it marginally, they change it significantly. Therefore, the data supported by the Ministry of Finance from the first quarter are combined and accompanied by the general course of European economies, based on the development of the health crisis. I have heard that 'you are so unreliable as an economic staff who are changing the figures even between the preliminary draft budget and the budget'. We've been through this in committee. They are written by the budget and you do not read them. It's obvious they changed the evidence, first because we had a second wave of pandemic, which I don't think anyone knew about his tension. We needed to take it - you were asking for it and we did it, not because you were asking for it, but because we had secured the resources to do so - to support the economy. Also, something you systematically ignore. I told the committee. On 16 October ELSTAT reviewed the data for the past. You left, as shown here in the figures, EUR 5 billion less wealth. So we had to revise the figures and learn that from 16 October, between the preliminary draft budget and the budget. In any case, the Qualified Opposition cannot speak of failure in the predictions. There was no one year since 2015 after falling into estimates and forecasts for growth. All the years out. All years have been below the targets set. By the way, the last year we caught the targets was 2014 and I'll testify to that in the Minutes. Health expenditure. That's very interesting. I heard it today. I have heard repeating, in particular, a study by the OECD which says that in the extra health costs we are soaring, we are the second worst country. I have heard the honourable Member, Mr SYRIZA's rapporteur, today and Parliament's representative repeat it today. We replied that this is obvious because the figures used for Greece were for 29 April. They didn't hear it or they didn't get it. They repeated it today, despite the fact that we were talking about it. They had to at least see that the OECD updated them today. The OECD has updated the data and we are not the second worst country. So you should at least read the OECD update today and not stay on what was a few months ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u39	What position do we have?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u40	I'll come back to this. So it comes up and adds resources that are important that were given from April to 21 September.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u41	What's our turn?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u42	It's improved by six seats. Improved by six extra posts. I'll put it all in the Minutes. Watch out. So far, you've been telling us...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u43	Don't interrupt, please! Mr. Philly, you'll be talking in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u44	So far, and today, you've been telling us that we're the second worst. And the evidence that doesn't show that we're the second worst.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u45	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u46	Mr. Philly, I'm warning you that this won't happen either. Because I will submit for the Minutes, as I did in committee - and Mr Xanthos has asked me for the information - all the additional resources that the Ministry of Finance provides systematically from the country's reserve, outside the budget, to the Ministry of Health. Every week we give extra resources. We gave 783 million out of the reserve, except for the budget. Full transparency! We gave February 26th, March 17th, March 20th. We gave up to 11 December. We are constantly giving additional resources to the Ministry of Health to support health within the health crisis. I will put this in the Minutes so you know exactly what resources we give. And I commit, we commit ourselves as the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance that what the Ministry of Health needs to support, support all of us together, the battle to tackle the health crisis, will have it, as much money as it takes in 2021. That's why we built the reserve in 2021. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I will add the table tabled by Mr Tsakalotos to the committee. I'm sorry, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u47	That's a big difference!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u48	I'd hope you'd testify, because it's about your days. The actual health expenditure for 2014 was 4,750 billion. In 2015, Minister Tsakalotos - he was 4.415 billion. In 2016 - Minister of State, Mr Chakalotos - was 4.377 billion. In 2017 - Minister Tsakalotos - was 4.321 billion. In 2018 - Minister Tsakalotos said "to support public health - it was 3,849 billion. Down the street. In 2019 it was 4,041 billion. And now it is 4.829 billion, with the 786 million that we are giving from the country's reserve. I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. Now let's go to the other chapter. Here, really, science raises hands up. I have heard the rapporteur repeats that “the measures are not 24 billion, they are 6 billion.” "Reading..." - says - "...and I put it in the Minutes about the implementation of the state budget." All countries in the world are evaluated for the general government, the rapporteur remains in the state budget. In other words, it lives in government spending. However, I shall submit specific information. Firstly, I will submit the budget table itself, which says that the measures are EUR 24 billion this year and EUR 7.5 billion per year. It has the measures code-code. You don't believe us, I guess. I will present the seventh evaluation report - not the eighth, the seventh - which at the time said that the measures are 20.4 billion. In the Seventh Assessment Report, two months ago. And we added the measures that make EUR 24 billion. I don't suppose you believe in the European Commission either. I'll testify to it in the Minutes and at some point you believe it. I will be tabling what we will be discussing in one week at ECOFIN and Eurogroup, which is the report on the budgets of all the countries of Europe. And it says that for Greece the measures are 7.6% of GDP in budgetary terms and 4.7% of GDP in liquidity support measures. And that's what it's doing 24 billion. You don't believe that either, I guess. Uh, then let's go tell you more. I will submit to the Minutes how much money we have paid back by the county and citizen. We gave 5.5 billion euros. I'll testify in the Minutes how many of the Greek citizens went to the wallets from the repayable advance. That's the one. I will submit to the Minutes the special-purpose compensation per Member State and citizen, as we have given it over the previous period, EUR 500 million. I will submit to the minutes the special-purpose allowance for workers, EUR 1.9 billion per code, per county. It's full analysis. I'm going to testify in the Minutes how much we gave TEPIX and Guarantee Facility per county, another 5.4 billion euros. All in the Minutes. Full transparency! How much does that do, Mrs. Ahchioglu? He's doing 13.4 billion euros. Only what I gave you is EUR 13.4 billion, without unemployment benefits that we have systematically given for months, without other costs, without the December measures and without the revenue side. And this is where SYRIZA's arithmetic begins. Here's what Mrs Ahchioglu said today. "Revenue does not count on measures because the citizen does not take the money in the pocket." He obviously doesn't take it. The measures, however, usually count. When we zeroed the tax advance in 2019, did the state funds not miss EUR 2 billion? Shouldn't the country's fund have put 2 billion euros to pay pensions? When we reduce VAT to the focus - and it remains reduced - do we not lack revenues that we need to make up for pensions and wages? When we make suspensions of tax and insurance obligations, are there no revenue that the country's fund should cover to pay wages and pensions? When we reduce insurance contributions, when we dismantle the solidarity levy, these are all not measures, interventions that lack income, help the citizens and the fund must come and add resources to support expenditure, i.e. wages and pensions? Isn't that all breathing to households and businesses? Does not all of this deprive them of resources that the country's fund should cover? Let's talk a little bit seriously! And because I have heard the argument that measures are less than what Europe takes, take the comparative tables that show what Europe has done and what Greece has done in budgetary measures. And for my basic speech, on Tuesday, I will keep what will be made public tomorrow that is a country - and it proves this and many other interests. Last point. Unemployment, employment and studies that have seen the light of publicity very recently. You know, the effects of the pandemic on the labour market have two key variables. I think we should agree in this Chamber. One variable is unemployment - employment and the other variable is labour incomes, so how much the citizens who work, as they work - take care - before and after the introduction of support measures to deal with the impact of the coronary. So let's start with the first one. Has the government succeeded or failed on the side of the containment of the growth of unemployment? I don't think I can hear you talking here, probably because it worked. Who says that? EUROSTAT itself, invoking anti-population officials, says Greece had a comparatively smaller rise in unemployment in Europe in the second quarter of 2020. I shall submit the relevant document on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u49	Please, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u50	I shall conclude in two minutes, Mr President. VoxEU comes and acknowledges - I will submit all studies in the Minutes, not a page, all studies - the effectiveness of government measures in favour of jobs and workers. I'm going to testify this for the Minutes too. ELSTAT comes and says in September 2020 unemployment is less than in September 2019 and 2.7 points less than in September 2018. September 2018 government SYRIZA, September 2020 government of a pandemic New Democracy and unemployment is 2.7 points lower. I shall submit the relevant document on the Minutes. And the European Commission comes and says that in 2021 - estimates by the European Commission, not the government - Greece will show the second largest decline in unemployment throughout Europe. I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. So I think we can agree on at least one part that, in the area of employment - unemployment, the government has done well. Indeed, yesterday, a study of EUROSTAT, which I will present in the Minutes, not like some who draw four tables on Facebook, came yesterday. All of it! This study, what does it say? It says, in fact, that there are considerable losses in Greece for labour incomes before the measures to assist workers are implemented. Does that explain? It is explained by the study itself, page 2 and page 3. What does the study say? It says that there are great losses of income, especially in countries with high dependence on focus and hospitality. So it is no surprise that Greece had a greater exposure to the loss of income than the pandemic, since tourism and focus are two of the most important branches of employment. But it also makes sense - as the tables themselves say - to be disequilibrium in the thirteenths, because very simply in tourism they are known to be involved - because they are lower in specialization - people who receive smaller average wages. So both of these phenomena, before government interventions, are absolutely expected and reasonably interpreted. Interesting, however, begins on page 9 of the study. What does study page 9 say? It says that, now, we are going to assess the measures taken by each government. First of all, because it is interesting: the SYRIZA account says, "Give all wages back to the workers". What does page 9 say? It says that no country has paid all the wages to employees. It has examples of all countries. SYRIZA's account goes. By mistake, SYRIZA posted her too high in public. The basic account, which I have heard from the rapporteur, is therefore being abolished, 'Give the employee the wage back.' No country gives him. No country! And no country has covered all the incomes. The second interest, however, he says, is that Greece has managed to protect the labour market and the workers. And how does that prove? It turns out that by the measures we have taken, with the compensation we give, we are not only limiting the loss of income but - most importantly - doing what the Left should have done, if he believed in that, to greet us. But because we really believe in social justice, we do. We have the third best performance in Europe in covering the incomes of low-wage workers. So we come and help the low-wages more than all the other countries in Europe. And you come and you're judging us about it? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Here's the painting! In other words, we are doing what you should have come here and say 'a good thing that you do' if you believed in it. But you don't believe. I could say a lot more. I could say, for example, that, according to the Bank of Greece figures, household deposits, you know, increase, consumption in the third quarter increased over last year and so to see total household income. However, because I have made great use of time - but I wanted to give all the information, for all the modules discussed - I will close with this: it turns out once again that the economy is not the Asset of Officerial Opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u51	Parliamentary representatives will be given the floor. First, Mr Chakalotos has asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Chakaloto, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u52	Mr President, I am asking for the floor for a two-minute speech, and I am in a position to repeat what I said in committee. And I am in a position to do this, because Mr Stavros told us to have a serious conversation and then he accused us of being irresponsible. I was in the position of Mrs Ahtsoglou for three years between 2012 and 2015, and I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that I was an opposition to Mr Stournara, an opposition to Mr Hardouvelis. Such abuse of evidence I've never faced. We had very big fights, very big attacks, but I have never met this before, nor the abuse of evidence, nor will he answer and say the same thing again without any exchange of arguments. He told us we don't know how to read the paintings. Here I have the painting that says how much the middle income fell. We were in second place by the worst, and now he tells us that after the measures, we are the third worst, that we are taking a position. There she is! Here's the boogeyman. The boulder, when you see it, is how much the income falls after the measures. Can you tell us, Mr. Stakoura, when will you be a success? When will you be the twenty-seventh Minister of Finance in yields, twenty-fourth, twenty-first? How many should you have underneath to say you're successful? And when you talked about health and asked you, "And where did we get up with these 700 million?", which we discussed in committee and explained to you about these 700 million and how much it is about the premiums, and how are they not going to affect so much, why are other countries spending after April and asked you by Mr. Friend and I think Mr. Xanthos to tell us how much we went up - three, four? - you didn't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u53	I said it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u54	You didn't answer! So you're pleased that you're the twenty-first, the twenty-second, the twenty-third?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u55	Don't interrupt. Minister, you will be given the opportunity to reply. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u56	What's the success? You've abused all the evidence to prove you're doing well. I have too many tables, but the President will not allow me to talk any more, because you have a tolerance of the time we have never met with a Minister of Finance. You keep talking twice and twice as much time as you are. But I will tell you this: I really do not know whether you have abused the position of the Minister of Finance or the position of the university professor. Because both Mr Stournaras and Mr. Hardouvelis and I would be ashamed to do what you are doing, to bring evidence that is misleading, evidence that is stolen at percentages and changing the image. You really should be ashamed of both qualities and more like a university, why would I be ashamed to go to my students, ask me "Why did you say that?" And I don't know what to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u57	Wait a minute. All right, now, Mr. Chakalotos doesn't use such expressions. When he said "be ashamed", he meant it was inaccurate. And we fix it, Mr. Chakaloto. I mean, you are not used to using such expressions and the expression 'feelings' should not come in, but 'it was inaccurate'. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u58	Mr. Stavura, Minister of Finance, I do not want to blame you. And I think a year and a half now as a Parliamentary spokesman for the opposition party I have shown no signs of intent to blame you or, at any rate, not to respect my words and criticisms of the government and you personally. You're diligent and the evidence you brought here doesn't have time to question them or say it's right and good. I'll see. I have already asked the workers in this House to give them to me. However, a question is born to me. Why do you have rapporteurs as a government party, Mr Stakoura? Why did you have to say that here and your rapporteurs have not used it in the Standing Committee for so many weeks and today, Mr Papadimitriou and my next colleagues? Why did you guys have to get up? To impress? I do not think you can impress anyone other than the Members of the Chamber who are looking through the difficulties of the juncture for some information to be kept. I don't understand you. What kind of practice is this? These should be data from the conversation. Are you bringing us now? And if you think that this is how you create a climate of satisfaction to the Members of the Chamber or to those who are listening to you, I will tell you something else and take it into consideration. When the Statistical Authority of the country records that this year is closed with eight out of ten companies not having profits, but having losses, that is, when it personalises how the recession is caused and what the consequences are, what one would expect in a budget debate from the Minister of Finance when it comes to taking the floor, is not to make comparisons, and through these comparisons something is trying to say, but to explain, to state, to describe, to speak about what is to be done in the year 2021. To say about what is to be done in an economy whose public debt, that is, the general government debt is escalating to more than 200% of GDP - based on estimates of 205% or 207% or 210% - and the general government deficit reaches the limits that led the country to quasi-equity bankruptcy in 2009, namely, 8%, 9%, 10% and see where it will be closed. When these components of the national and private economy exist, then what one expects from you is the prospect, so the budget. It's not the billboard acknowledgments. I, Minister, would like to have this information in our data, also to have the debate on it. I don't like the impressions, I don't challenge them, nor do I use them as a tactic. But I have to say that we are waiting for you and not what you are doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr Arsenis has the floor, because the parliamentary representative is missing. But you have time from your main speech. You have asked for the floor for a minute. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, you tell us that the deposits are increasing and unemployment is falling. It's actually obvious - because you're talking about today - that you're living in a different world than citizens are experiencing, perhaps in a different round. But as much as the "populars" and if you share, you cannot convince the citizen who is hungry that everything is going well, that is suddenly filled, you cannot convince the unemployed that they are busy. But I want to talk about numbers a little bit. Between the first quarter of 2019 and the second quarter of 2020, indeed, in numbers the workers have increased and the unemployed have fallen. But listen to this. Workers have increased by thirty thousand and the unemployed have fallen by thirty - nine thousand. How can the unemployed be reduced by a hundred thousand in practice and workers increase by only thirty thousand? Answer that. Prove it's not a migratory outflow. Answer that, but don't be proud.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u61	Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr. Spilios Lebanese for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Very briefly, Mr President, I would like to say and remind the House that we are at a very difficult time - let us not forget this when we are up to talking - and the government's effort is clear in maintaining a balance between the capital that today is to guarantee public health and to strengthen the economy and especially the low strata. At the same time as the budget - and this has also been expressed by our rapporteur and will also be expressed by the special speakers of the New Democracy - he will also give the signal of hope for the next day. Dear Mr Colleague, representative of KINAL, Mr Papadimitriou has obviously tabled information which is useful for the dialogue. It's a whole package that I think you took. I hope that colleagues in the Staff Regulations will also have it. Special speakers will do the same. And obviously Mr Staikoras, like the Deputy Minister and the State Secretary, have submitted to the committee information. Some of the things that the Minister of Finance has submitted today, we know. These are the evidence we have come to discuss here. With all due respect for the New Democracy, to all colleagues and to the former Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakaloto, I would like to say - and I say this in good faith, so as not to continue this four-day period - that I understand that the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has been irritated by the presence of Mr Staikoras who is speaking in particular. I am sorry to say this, but I think - and that is how all the Greeks have understood - that you have a personal insight and that is why you are attacking a personal level and not with arguments against the current Minister of Finance who is doing his job.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u63	I have science.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u64	It comes here and is placed with data, numbers and tables. And because you lose battle on numbers and tables, you come and do something worse. You're trying to speculate and politicize the debate. The worst thing you do is not for us, it's not for Greek citizens, it's for you. Because you are also losing the battle in the Greek political dialogue and the ideological battle. We will be asking you - and not we will be provoking you - as a majority today in this House, because we have four days in front of us and because we have a critical time to continue this debate on these figures, all of them - as the Minister said - and not on plates that we take from dozens of studies, to come and talk about numbers. And because if we've understood you're also a philosopher, follow Marx and make a real war of ideas, war of ideologies with elements, in points of view, and tell us where you'd like to apply. Because this government comes and gives evidence of applied policies that they yield. You're talking in the air, and when you were in the government, you broke everything up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u65	Mr President, I would like to testify because I forgot...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u66	Yes, testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u67	I would like to table out the table showing how much incomes are falling before and after measures, the table that says what is and what happened in the nine months that we are not posting. Because he said so and I just didn't testify. That is where you will understand, Mr Colleague, that I have nothing with Mr Stavoura. I have science and don't abuse the evidence. He does so systematically when he refuses to answer and says the same arguments. Another one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chakaloto. The Minister has the floor for a minute's clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u69	First of all, I wonder how one makes selective use of evidence, Mr Colleague, when he gives all the studies. I don't go to Facebook to give four paintings. I'm giving the whole study. So how do I use selectively when I testify in the Minutes all the study? Secondly, Mr Colleague of the Change Movement, Mr Parliamentary Representative, obviously my key speech will have these features, in 2021 and in the future. But I have to put forward a great deal of information to inform the whole House about many things that have emerged today. That is, for example, the EUROSTAT study came out last night. Last instalment for the refundable advance, we paid it last night. So there are up-to-date points today. What I submitted for the State General Accounting Office for the Reserve every two, three days pays the State General Accounting Office the Department of Health. So we have to inform the House of everything. I close with this: you know very well that all these years in Parliament I respect and appreciate colleagues. I've never made 13 years of personal mention to anyone. I haven't made 13 years of personal mention. Mr. Comrade, but you made two personal references to me. The first time you said when I would feel like I was a successful Minister of Finance. When it is not the Finance Minister my country will grow when Europe has 8%. Because then it would be the appointment of the failed minister. So I wouldn't want to be Mr. Chakalotos. Two percentage points in four years and eight percentage points in Europe. We, on the basis of the tables I have presented, are going well. And before the coronary crisis, Greece was in the first quarter plus 0.4, while Europe --3,3. So, yes, I feel proud, because citizens with their sacrifices - the citizens are all due - support the Greek economy. Secondly, you insinuated something about my university status. You know, I'm proud of my academic quality and evolution. And you know very well that universities are evaluated by students, by their colleagues and by the international community. And whenever you want, everyone can come in and see my reports and yours. Then talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u70	We're entering the list of special speakers. The Conference of Presidents has decided unanimously that the time should be strictly respected from now on. There was a derogation from the general rapporteurs. There will be correspondingly to the leaders of the parties. I would ask that the 12th minute be observed so that the special rapporteurs can be brought to an end today. First special rapporteur from New Democracy, George Amyras. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me first to make a small comment to say this: in the six years that I am a Member of Parliament, I have never seen the Vice-Presidents make a fuss about the reason that the Minister of a government is giving evidence, studies and documentation of what he says. Usually, the return was happening. And to refresh your memory, I'll just say two examples. First, the superstition. When, on the basis of the Memorandum of Tsipras - Kammenos, we were talking to the Committee on Finance in the Senate, we asked the then government of SYRIZA to present us with the annexes of the companies - the public property - of the Greek State which would have the jurisdiction of the superstition. You didn't even have the parliamentary emotiveness and order to inform us and the Greek people about which of the gold and silvers of the Greek state were going under the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. So I don't remember the other one. Do you remember that study of the Florence Institute for the Channels? Let's go later now. Clearly, the Minister of Finance, Mr. Stavros, gave evidence and catalytic answers to all these distorting arguments that are heard in this Chamber by the Civic Opposition. So I come to the question of the State Budget of 2021. We are discussing a state budget under national trial conditions. The second wave of pandemic certainly hits the whole of Europe, and our country, of course, and our thoughts can only be in the human potential offered by the National Health System and make a titanic struggle to save people's lives. Therefore, doctors, paramedics, administrative staff, owe much. It is our duty - and we do so - to support them in every way. Every prediction and every estimate, as we are already spending the tenth month of this pandemic, is risky. There is a great deal of uncertainty as, according to the World Health Organisation, there may be a third wave of COVID pandemic. However, there is light in the tunnel. The sanitary nightmare will end. Science already gives solutions. And finally, we're closer to the clearing to leave this world nightmare behind. All things have to be done, the vaccinations will start from January to January throughout Europe, of course in our country. And it is very good that the Ministry of Health has already drafted a national vaccination plan in which party or party and parapolitical controversy no longer exist. This means, in practical terms, that we still have a period of great difficulty before us. That is why the new budget has been drawn up with these precisely assumptions. The issue is, in 2021, how to maintain the jobs that are already clearly in ice, and there is an uncertainty about the future, but also how to take a look at the recovery of the Greek economy for a growth and recovery that will cover the losses of this year. Efforts are not easy, then. However, the state budget for 2021 lays the foundations that will lead Greece to convergence with the rest of Europe. Balance is thin. And thankfully, the financial staff very clearly responsible and with a perspective of things differently, seeing the pandemic, did not hear the screams then of SYRIZA, the Officer of Cyprianism, who said at the beginning of the pandemic: "Kyriako, give them all here and now." In this context - Mr Stakoras said so just now - in 2020, this year, 24 billion euros were given to keep households standing, to keep businesses and the economy up, while the budget we are debating now provides for 7.5 billion euros for 2021. As a result of this prudent attitude, what I will say to you is that the Minister mentioned just before - Greece has the second best service in the European Union in the field of job conservation. I'll say it again. Greece has the second best service between the countries of the European Union in maintaining existing jobs. And that's not all. It also has the second best performance for 2021 on the basis of the Commission's study on the reduction of unemployment. I'm saying that again. Greece will reduce unemployment in 2021 on the basis of the Community's forecast and will have the second higher performance than in all the other countries of Europe. In addition, I remember that SYRIZA, the Qualified Opposition, said mainly: Go forward to four thousand healthcare recruits. We've already made seven thousand recruitments. I didn't hear anything about that. As also, in support of public health, we have the reserve of EUR 3 billion for 2021. I have heard Mrs Ahtsoglou before saying: 'Tell us where these 3 billion go.' We're telling you. They're going to support the National Health System. It's a prediction. The budget is entered in the State Budget. We can't tell you where she's going. We're waiting to see how the pandemic turns out. But the money is there. There's a compost. The reserve is worth EUR 3 billion. And I now come to the real annual needs of the economy, to small and medium-sized enterprises and to professionals. The measure of the repayable advance proved effective because it kept the backbone of the economy alive. May I remind you who had increased the company tax advance from 50% to 100%? It was SYRIZA. The total support of the Greek economy by TPIX, the Guarantee Fund and the repayable advance is therefore expected to be set at EUR 12 billion this year. In December alone, nearly 2.5 billion was granted through the repayable advance, half of which -notice - 50% is a net grant, while the measure will continue in January. No one can of course claim that the state will cover all household and business losses. It has, however, covered a competent section of them, so that everyone can move forward the next day. More than three and a half million private workers received financial support through the employment contracts, without losing the slightest insurance and pension rights. It is another possibility, yet another success, to say it, a feat in this pandemic, in this wave, in this fire that they maintained their insurance and pension rights to these three and a half million workers. The "ERGANI" system, which was so warped by the Acoustic Opposition, acted with credibility, offering solutions for business and employees while justifying the effort of the Minister of Labour, Mr. Yannis Vroutsi, to establish and enrich it. And then all the time. The cover of insurance contributions for the creation of 100 000 new jobs is already being implemented, and special-purpose allowances are also granted to part-time workers, which is not the case in most European countries. Also, with regard to the social policy of the Mitsotakis Government, OPEKA's actions were strengthened to support vulnerable social groups with increased allowances of 600 million under the budget for 2021. It is also granted in advance, i.e. an extended heating allowance, in order to facilitate vulnerable households. Let me remind you that the heating allowance for SYRIZA was cut to half. In addition, temporary and regular unemployment benefits are extended. The unemployed are vulnerable, we are not leaving them out of sight. While a State grant programme is being implemented in the monthly loan instalment for vulnerable information and non-domestics, giving December additional aid for beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income, as provision is now available for each household. Ladies and gentlemen, under conditions unprecedented for the economy, the government operates with budgetary responsibility and social solidarity without hiding the problems, the difficulties that exist. Within a context of increased uncertainty there are policies which are not influenced by the health nightmare or by European developments, but are implemented in the light of the directions of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The abolition of the solidarity levy is not a virtual reality, as SYRIZA said, but a tangible reality. It is done as of January 2021. The reduction in insurance contributions by three percentage points for all employees is not a virtual reality, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. It is a reality that you, of course, have shown yourself negative toward it since you voted against it. You voted against the reduction in insurance contributions by three percentage points, which, of course, would increase the wages of workers. The reduced VAT from 24% to 13% for transport, transport, coffee, for the tourist package is not a virtual reality. Just to remind you, SYRIZA's dear and fellow Members, that it was you who took VAT from 13%, you took him to 23%, and then all you went to 24% together, in fact ejecting the vulnerable people, the people whom VAT clearly, as far as fair and unrighteous, is concerned. Also, the significant increase in funds for the minimum guaranteed income, child benefits, housing allowance, is not a virtual reality. It's the real reality. It is appreciated, of course, by the people who perceive and accept this help in these difficult times. The first home subsidy for borrowers affected by the COVID pandemic at a cost of EUR 280 million is envisaged and already applied. The GEOGRAPHY programme has proved to be the most effective protection for hundreds of thousands of households. These are not virtual reality. It is the truth, which many of our fellow citizens perceive. Also from next year, on the basis of the budget, the reductions in personal income tax already voted in 2019 will apply. I would remind you of the first tax rate is falling from 22% to 9% for annual incomes of up to EUR 10,000, while the reductions also exist for higher incomes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u72	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u73	Give me, Mr President, your tolerance for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u74	If we give each of us, we will not finish at twelve.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u75	Yes, Mr. President. HISFIA, this unfair tax, which does not just change, has fallen by 22% and has been abolished for the inhabitants of the small remote islands as well. May I remind you of this favourable measure that SYRIZA has not voted for? So where's your social sensitivity? The tax on legal persons' income was reduced to 24%. VAT was suspended in the new buildings. Incentives are provided for investment in a green economy, energy and digitisation. I could tell you more. But I would like to end by pointing out this: we have not only had the pandemic. We remind you: We had the facts in Evros, this peculiar invasion. We had events in the Southeast Mediterranean. We had the increased flows in the Aegean islands. Nevertheless, we have succeeded and neutralized these threats and Erdogan's war plans.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u76	Mr. Colleague, please. If we're all talking all this time - I'm not saying it for you alone - the last ones, like Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, Mr. Katrinis, will not speak
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u77	I'll be done, Mr. President. I'll be out in a minute. I'd be done and you take my time. The policies of the Mitsotakis Government, far from populism and unsuccessful recipes of the past, are therefore recognised by the European Union. We had EUR 19.5 billion and the possibility of loans of EUR 13 billion from the Recovery Fund just yesterday. However, these policies, above all - and I shall end, Mr President - are rewarded by the citizens of this country. Citizens are the supreme judge. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of the 2021 budget, which is the basis for Greece to be able to create jobs and incomes, covering rapidly the lost territory of the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u78	What I'm saying, Mr. Amyras, is none of your business. It concerns all colleagues. So if he eats two minutes more, we will not finish even at twelve today. From tomorrow it's at 10:00 at night. Today, all the special rapporteurs will be finished. Please respect your colleagues. The last three won't talk. I don't intend to turn off the microphone to anyone. You're the only judge on your own. Mr. Friend from SYRIZA has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in May 2020, the United States recorded the first hundred thousand deaths from COVID. At that time they had lost 0.03% of their population. It is known that the disastrous management of the pandemic by the Trump government had caused indignation within the country and had played a decisive role in defeating the presidential election. In fact, then, the ‘NEW YORK TIMES’ had created a historical headline with the names of the victims, while criticizing the government for its oiling. In our country the media, fed by the 'Petsa list', consider the debate on government responsibilities as an opposition to bodies. Nevertheless, in our country the dead have now reached three and a half thousand and as a percentage of American May 2020. We have unfortunately lost 0.03% of our population from COVID complications and the situation will deteriorate until we have the possibility of mass vaccination of the population, which we all hope will bring the end of the pandemic at least with the acidity we have known. Meanwhile, the domestic "NEW YORK TIMES" that will remind the victims in Greece are being sought. Ladies and gentlemen, the resources provided for in the regular section of the budget for education are reduced by 1.77%. The government simply goldenens the pill by predicting increased resources from the Public Investment Programme. That's funny, of course. The Public Investment Programme relates to projects budgets by the NSRP and other financial instruments which are in effect usually names of projects even immature. That is why you planned for 2020 EUR 510 million in the Public Investment Programme, so roundly. And this year, for 2021, you forecast 710 million euros. Question: How many of the 510 million did you implement last year? This is what we want you to give the House, Minister for Finance, and you, Minister for Education. With regard to the regular section, which deals with the main operational costs of public education, we have a reduction on the reduction, since according to all indications the 2020 budget is implemented with a serious downward deviation, less EUR 125 million according to the report itself. And this is when, because of COVID, the needs of public school and university have grown. Instead of using the grace period of the first quarantine to improve the infrastructure in schools, you are undermining the budget. I ask: what is the result of this failure? Because failure is the under-utilisation of the budget. Is it because you did not do the assignments in time for special treatment? Did you not manage to appoint general education teachers in 2020? Didn't you hire extra subsidized teachers to break higher grades of primary, high school and high school in few sections, with all that means in the negative course of the pandemic in the country? Did you not pay to have the poorest children's equipment and good connections to participate in teleworking on an equal footing? Didn't you make sure you rented space to house the classes and parts that would break down? Did you not provide sufficient support for the entire school network and stayed in the so-called free invisible contract with 'CISCO', with all the problems that students and teachers have each day? Let us see specific figures from the budget: 0.69% reduction in primary and secondary education. Reduction of 33.38%, i.e. from 85 to 56 million in vocational education and training. Why? We heard yesterday that the draft law on vocational training was tabled. To close, you go halfway to the public IEK, for the degradation of OAED's professional schools and apprenticeship schools. But where abandonment and financial deterioration are culminating, it is in higher education, where, given the shortcomings after a memorial period, you cut 7.77% compared to last year's budget. We are talking about 20 million less about universities, which are squeezing behind the lack of resources, even in elementary such as heating. Of course, you won't hesitate to give money to new police stations inside the universities. You distributed the day before yesterday that you would give additional EUR 30 million to the universities. A simple comparison will be made. You give 30 million for the care, as you say, when you gave 54 million last year for the writings and 104 million euros for the operational costs of all the universities in the country. After abolishing the asylum claiming that it was the occasional and, of course, condemnable acts of violence, you have used another single and convicted event to announce police departments within the universities against the university authorities. Why didn't you stop that? You've turned the country back to the era of security faculty at universities. Do you remember who dismantled the Great Security? I hope the Members of the New Democracy will read history. Of course, the struggle between students and society for democratisation has abolished it in post-collection and the Karamanlis government has ratified this decision. You're on the wrong track. You have targeted youth and education. Media and social media have now been flooded with acts between police violence against young and social minorities. Now, will you send extra uniforms with clubs and cuffs to universities? Haven't you been taught anything since 2008? Teachers, workshops, funds and research. Teachers need universities, not police officers. In conclusion, in education this year you choose to spend less, less money in the public school, meditation to depreciate and shrink, so that private education can look better and find customers. On the contrary, we should commit ourselves to a national plan with guaranteed funding. A common and agreed objective should be the convergence of our country's funding with the European Union's average and 5% of GDP for education. We need immediately fifteen thousand teachers' appointments. The SYRIZA government had provided tens of thousands of delayed appointments. On the contrary, today prioritises appointments to police, even from universities. Finland has thirty - five police officers per 100 thousand. Greece has five hundred per 100 000 inhabitants and is the second in this negative record in the European Union after Cyprus. We're talking about it again. We want first teachers and not police officers in education. Ladies and gentlemen, while we are discussing the budget, the government has quickly brought the draft law on vocational education and training to the committee. This is a strategic issue that needs to be linked to the country's productive reconstruction, not with self-interested business interests, but with national economic priorities. The SYRIZA government had upgraded professional high school and managed to increase the number of children attending them from eighty thousand to a hundred and twenty thousand. The new PCA principle was rewarded as good practice by the European Union. Our main aim was for children to complete their circular studies, for them to study in the PSAs and for them to get a qualification at the end and then a apprenticeship with salaries and insurance. This is an option that strengthens the whole education of children as a democratic citizen and their integration into work, which requires strong technological knowledge in a period of major technological change and professional flexibility. Thus, we had managed to reduce school leakage in 2017 to 6% compared to 10.6% in the European Union. On the reverse of this choice, you're the one who kicks the kids out of school. You are pushing the 15-year-olds into the so-called early specialization that means uninsured and unpaid work and, furthermore, you are trapped in this downgraded and cheap specialization and ultimately, in jobs of the leg. This is a hard class choice that reminds us of what Mr Mitsotakis said in the election. You also marginalize the OAED and give private centres the definition of skills for training and training itself. This is a conflict of interest. There is, of course, a prize of about one and a half billion euros from the Recovery Fund for continuing training programmes. This is public money, which will be directed mainly at private IEK. Another proof of the unjust and state-owned capitalism on the road that opened the "helicopid scare". This bill substantiates vocational training in the interests of enterprises and the market. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget is being sealed by the multiple uncertainties, by the pandemic, by the additional social inequalities, which, in the case of education, are undermining the future of an entire generation: closed schools, refusal to take the necessary health-care measures, telematics being dragged, by countless children - and here, in fact, since you have not recorded them yet - without tabs and computers, to participate in telephony, an abundance of electricity from PPC to families that do not have to pay for the bill, so that these children also remain out of digital order, like others, those thousands who fight with their mobile phone or on squares to connect using the cafeline network. And you've been laughing about sharing a computer for eight months. Shame on you! And that is not all these discriminations are enough. The other day, you sent a circular to run a web-based exam. All you're thinking about in school is exams, exams again, when you should have given priority, especially in today's conditions, to re-learning lessons. You did not think about reducing the matter, although last year the children lost at least three months and this year at least two others, while a huge number of children did not participate in teleworking. You did not think of a reasonable extension of the first four months so that there could be a repetition or even a re-education within the classroom of a large part of the matter and that the pedagogical method of evaluation should be followed rather than the glutton of the final examinations. It doesn't even pass through your mind not to file a first quarter rating. On the other hand, you are obsessed with promoting the theme bank and reducing the number of importers in the higher institutions. You're not conscious. You can't feel that for children who can't do a telefacing course it's not their own incomplete effort, but your own provocative indifference and you insist that such points be assigned to the dismissal for access to universities. This is the path of your minor effort and class division! We ask that the duration of the first quarter be extended immediately, that the curriculum be adapted and reduced, and that the schools be reopened, taking the necessary health measures, what the EGE has indicated and you have ignored. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of education is a matter of democracy. Along with health they make up the heart of the social state. The pandemic has shown market boundaries, asymmetrical neoliberalism. The role of the public in productive reconstruction is central. So public school, with the necessary public credits that reflect the interest of society and the commitment of politics. But that is what your policy is all about. Only a radically different programme for the democratic regeneration of the country, focusing on the environment, work, rights, the social state, can give way to the vicious circle of the memorandum policies that you bring back to the country. Only a programme that inspires and is inspired by the social struggles, which give answers realistic but also at the same time joins in a prospect of overcoming the unjust social system of capitalism. Furthermore, a programme that will impose taxation on businesses, which, in the present pandemic, has launched over-profits. The Pissaridis project proposes, despite the deadlocks created by the memorials, again. They're not neutral, they're class policies. We are faced with 'technicalism', with the effort of conservative governance to convince us that magically the enormous social inequalities which, however, we are told, are a natural phenomenon can be tackled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u80	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u81	I shall conclude, Mr President, thank you. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance is voting against the budget and especially the funds for education. Our differences are not quantitative, they are qualitative. It is not a party competition, it is an interest in the future of the country and the new generation. We say this again: the question of education is a question of democracy. It takes those parties that are not subject to neoliberalism, as well as teachers and young people, every good-for-nothing citizen to work together for the common good, not in the interests of the few. Forward for education. Forward for democracy. History teaches it over time, regardless of conditions. 15% dowry for education. Bread, education, freedom. I'm not assimilating different historical periods. History is not repeated, but it inspires. Forward for education, forward for democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u82	Thank you, too, Mr. Philly. The first two speakers have spoken for fourteen minutes. I would ask the next ones to keep the time. Finish as early as you can. Mr Georgios Arvanitis, a special rapporteur from the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, in discussing today the first day of the 2021 budget, I fear that we are in the same work as the New Democracy Government has prepared for the difficult year ahead. The roughly prepared for the second wave of pandemic, which knew it was coming, the more we see preparing the budget, repeating gaps and oligopoly in view of the second wave of economic hardship in 2021 below. The Government has delayed to take measures to protect the citizens and support the ESS after the first lockdown, and now we move from a dictionary to an extension of the restrictive measures with Thessaloniki and northern Greece to be in an extremely difficult, marginal situation. The same delay we see the economic support measures coming, with insufficient and insufficient measures to protect the middle class and vulnerable groups. That is why we are going from revisions to revisions. And while the ESS was and is the great protagonist in the pandemic, in the 2020 and 2021 budgets, it becomes the poor relative, as it will operate in 2021 with about the same levels of expenditure as in 2019 and with much less staff than in 2019. Unfortunately, the government insists on adopting over-optimistic projections and scenarios for economic developments in 2021. These optimistic summer night scenarios will unfortunately end in the wake of the deadlocks of the real economy, deadlocks that have been formed, not only because of the pandemic, but also because of the economic policy pursued by the New Democracy Government for eight months before it broke out. I will not question the particular circumstances created by the coronary pandemic, but the essential signs were beginning to appear long before the pandemic. Already before the coronary pandemic in the fourth quarter of 2019, we had a decrease of 0.9% of the country's GDP. The first quarter of 2020 also continued to shrink by 0.7%. In the first quarter of 2020, the government had already managed to have more than three and a half billion deficit in the budget. In simple terms, the magnitude of the recession will not only be due to COVID -19, but also to the underlying illness of the bad economic policy pursued by the New Democracy in the pre-COVID era. The 2021 budget will prove to be an inappropriate equation that will not come out, not because of COVID, but mainly because of your economic policy being pursued. Unfortunately, it is in your paradoxical DNA the beauty, exorcism, the revision of predictions and data, the lack of planning and vision, the absence of a radical productive reorganization. And this DNA doesn't change with the political vaccination you attempt from other places to the government, no matter how hard the Prime Minister is trying. Unfortunately, the 2021 budget will remain incomplete. And when the government finds that they do not come out, it will invoke the pretext of the health crisis and will obviously have to revise it again. We told you two months ago, from your preliminary draft, that the government has been moving outside the current reality. The Financial Council and Parliament's Budget Office have told you that, describing your budget and forecasts as optimistic. The difficulties were known, and now they are. Two months ago with the new lockdown at the door, the government sent the growth spring account to 7.5% for 2021. Today you are talking about 4.8% growth. Unfortunately, only a few days ago, the OECD published its forecasts of the Greek economy's progress, mentioning a growth of 0.9% for 2021. I say this - I know that you do not share these views - because in July 2020 the OECD anticipated in the basic scenario for Greece 8% recession and if there is a second wave, 9.8%. What tools? How were they able to make a real prediction near the actual OECD numbers, and we cannot? Two months ago the government didn't want to admit that the recession would be doubled. Today, it reviews estimates for the third time and provides for a recession of 10.8%, of course, after today's announcements on how the retail trade works - we know how important this period is for our GDP - to see what levels that figure will move. Today the government is warming up the plate with the Pissaridis report and the resources of the Recovery Fund to cover the decisions of the European Union summit that came without sanctions for Turkey. But the Pissaridis report, with which, although the social dimension of development is completely absent, does not tell us how these resources will be used effectively. The Change Movement says that the Greek plan for exploiting these resources must be the result of a wider political and social agreement. This plan must be aimed at green development, but with production in our country. We need many green investments now with great added value for the place, with co-productions of Greek companies with foreign companies and the development of new innovative small and medium-sized enterprises in the areas that we have a comparative advantage, in the agri-food sector, in the energy, shipping, repair, health, in particular in the field of artificial intelligence, so that we can enter the 4th Industrial Revolution train. We can. Perhaps this is the last national opportunity to fill the gap between us and the other industrialised European countries. But how's that gonna happen? With what state? With what state? With what structures? What timeline? What procedures will we come to assess investments and proposals to make use of these important resources? Ten billion a year must be disbursed. Can we do it? How do we do it? With the final state of Mr Hatzidakis, who does not even apply the proposals of the Pissaridis report itself? We've been through the law on spatial planning recently. The Pissaridis proposal says that the Environment Inspection must become an independent authority. What did the Minister choose to do? Load her more with bureaucratic responsibilities. Do you follow the report and directions or not? The final state of Mr Hatzidakis with his amendments to nothing but five? By "seeing and doing"? By "writing" and by "wrapping" by changing rules? Within eight and a half times the rules on the RES market have been changed, which will eventually bring universal lockdown to the energy communities and small and medium-sized RES producers. Or is it going to do so with the final state that is delaying interfering with the failures of the target model, causing side effects on growth and the economy as a whole? Since the beginning of the crisis, we have told you that it is very important to strengthen the liquidity of businesses, professionals and farmers in order to compensate for the fall of their turnover and to have movement capital for growth when the relevant restrictive measures are lifted. What did you choose to do in 2020? You only gave EUR 93 million to over one million free professional farmers and individual businesses and EUR 1.3 billion to the approximately twenty thousand small and medium-sized enterprises, which is estimated to account for 88% of private sector employment. At the same time, you have channelled some 3.7 billion liquidity for the around three hundred large businesses in the country, which accounts for 12% of employment. And as if that were not enough, half the increase in the financing of large-scale businesses by the banks was absorbed after March by only six companies. This, however, is a definition of conservative and class policy, which unfortunately is your main choice. You did this in 2020, and unfortunately I predict that you will continue to do it in 2021. Apart from the padlocks that the new Banking Code will bring, you are planning to increase tax revenue by EUR 3,57 billion, that is, 8.1%, which will basically be from indirect taxes. The government tells us that it expects to increase tax revenues in goods and services by EUR 2.4 billion and increase income tax revenues by EUR 1.1 billion. Now, how with 4.7% GDP growth - if it comes - we will achieve an 8.1% increase in tax revenue, only New Democracy can explain it. This will, of course, be a leading historical paradox, which only the New Democracy, again, had attempted to appear in world economic history, with the famous 'zero plus zero, equal to fourteen'. You keep reminding us of your story and your evil self. How do you expect to collect increased indirect taxes from a winter economy and from citizens, unfortunately, unable to pay their current obligations and constantly accumulate? Of course, the unfair distribution of tax burdens began on SYRIZA, leading the ratio indirect to direct taxes from the historical low 1.15% in 2014 to more than 1.40% in 2019. This is why 2020 reaches 1.5% and is now getting worse in 2021. This relationship between indirect taxes and direct taxes is unpopular, conservative, because it burdens the many and the weak. Ladies and gentlemen, last spring, when the country entered the coronary condolences, the Change Movement, but also the other parties, 'we set back'. We supported the health measures recommended by the experts. Besides, the situation was unprecedented for everyone. The Change Movement throughout this pandemic held a responsible attitude. We have tabled documented proposals and have not been lured from the temptation of populism and dangerous doubts. But what we cannot accept is the way the government uses pandemic to go through measures and policies for a few and selected, fair and fast track measures, with a substantial bypass of Parliament, which has been condemned to a sterile role in the procedures followed. The pandemic brought a health and a new economic crisis. It must not also bring about a crisis of democracy and social cohesion. Things will be very difficult in 2021. We should prepare and support those affected by the recession, keep the economy alive and the society upright. And here is the huge problem of understanding the government, which seems not to understand the difficulties and is planning the course of Greece in a virtual environment. I hope that, when you see the scale of the problem, it will not be too late again for the country. Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the inclusion in the budget of the proposal, which we have tabled for months now from the Change Movement, for the 'practice' of the budget, in the assessment of state expenditure as a friendly and non-environmental one. It is a good thing that we also have European obligations, but it is not enough. We are asking for the budget to be incorporated horizontally, but also into every government policy, the provisions for the recovery of climate change, and that is why we will present proposals for a Greek climate law. So it is not just the green wrapping of the budget, it is also its green content, but green content with the benefit of many and not the few, which you are unfortunately promoting with this budget. That is why we are voting against the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr Arvanitidis. The special rapporteur for the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Diamanto Manolakos, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u85	The budget is presented at a time when a new deep global economic crisis is taking place, which is exacerbated by the pandemic with consequences for peoples' health, which is the first and most important, but also to strengthen the economic crisis. It is obvious that the inability of capitalist countries, with their public health systems, to deal with pandemic, since the trade in health and medicine shows the nature of the rot and the limits of the capitalist system, with tens of millions of patients and over a million dead. The consequences of the economy too. The economic crisis occurred in early 2020, before the pandemic. It is synchronised and internationally larger than 2008, but also larger than post-war. Moreover, the recent OECD estimates also give economic levels of recession minus 7.5% for 2020 in the Eurozone. For the Greek economy, more than 10% is estimated for 2020 and an extremely shallow recovery in 2021, just 0.9%, while you say 4.8% of GDP. For 2022 there is a recovery of 6.6%, but the curse will not be replaced by any recovery rate of the next two years. They propose anti-grassroots measures, what the government is doing today, with the pandemic, the expansion of teleworking, the bleaching of popular strata, green carpets, easier and faster redundancies, lower wages. You started it by compensation for the suspension of contracts. From 800 euros you make it 534 euros. That's how you protect the workers. Shame on you! We are also talking about extending part-time and temporary work, that is, flexibility is expanding everywhere, as is privatisation of insurance systems. Young people are doubtful to see a pension. So what do you propose in such circumstances with the 2021 budget? All the above measures of the OECD in the Pissaridis finding, which strangles people's income to finance business groups. It even characterises the need for a public free health system and proposes its vulnerability to strengthen business activity. That is why you are reducing before and above all the health resources to strengthen, shield businessmen from losing their profits. It's challenging, unacceptable, irrational, medicated, barbaric! The new cuts to the expenditure ceiling are over half a billion, while from European funds nothing goes to health, but to support entrepreneurs. The government lies when it calls for health as a priority. Your priority is capitalist profits, and in the midst of the pandemic you do not hesitate to ensure warm money in clinical units for ICUs, as well as the costs in hospitals and in HSYs and in HSYs have a reduction of 1.5% in 2021. The state budget confirms that above all you are putting the profits and not the health of the people. It was confirmed by the opening of tourism in the summer, putting people's lives at risk, until the lack of controls at workplaces like minefields, while northern Greece and, above all, Thessaloniki reached the edge of the cliff, many lives were lost. The West Attica is in the same situation. Here's what they say and what the workers experience, what they actually live. I will submit today's Western Attica union announcement for the Minutes. The pandemic appeared on the ground of almost nonexistent public health structures, health centers of a lousy public system, which was formed over time under the responsibility of the governments of New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA. In the 2009-2019s public health expenditure fell by 44%. No one can now be innocent pigeon! You booked ten thousand beds and public hospitals with an alibi that were counterproductive and cost-effective. You left closed ICU beds and without essential primary care for the people and hospitals and health centres with incomplete staff. The new reductions are added to those made in recent years with the alibi of the memos. Thus a degraded and merchandise system was formed where two diseases do not fit. Now you are trying to hide your heavy and great responsibilities behind the various vaccines that are ready to be licensed and of course people need them. However, there are still strong monopolistic and geopolitical competitions behind them. Cultivate that everything ends when the vaccination begins, so as not to make the necessary recruitments of health and real demands, instead of strengthening regional medical services, health centres that are deceived, so as not to collapse the public health system, leaving health services intact. You also seem to exclude vaccines from public expenditure. In total, you face health expenditure as a cost and an obstacle to capitalist development. This means that, and when the pandemic is overtaken, at whatever cost, workers will continue to have a degraded and inadequate health service, which will pay more and more expensive, and the Minister will say about increases. The same is true of course in the field of education. Funding has been reduced for years to be degraded by cuts in education, with problems of accumulated time over time. Expenditure in the last ten years has been plunged by EUR 2 billion. This means there will be further deterioration and when the schools open. Of course now students, parents, instructors are resurrected waiting for the link to the class, as infrastructures are not guaranteed and major deficiencies remain in permanent training staff. Also, axes fall in OAED funds by 38%, with a possible impact on unemployment benefits, but also discounts, such as excises, for big business only. You don't give a shit about the farm and the self-employed. Especially the farm is fully acquainted with abandonment. Only a small section of farmers joined the beneficiaries of the repayable advance, while the appropriations for the agricultural sector were less than 0.5% of the total package, i.e. crumbs! And don't say they have subsidies, because you're taxing them too. A tax reduction is made only to the main occupation of farmers. To poverty, no discount! In the field of local administration, the grant by the Central Autonomous Communities to municipalities and regions is 2.5 billion, when staff remuneration is calculated at 2.6 billion, i.e. the CFPs do not even cover staff remuneration. In addition, in the municipalities for school wheelchairs, for "Help at Home" and for cleaning school units there will be a 15% reduction. In the municipalities, of course, it exceeds 210 million. And as a compensation, the government is looking forward to an increase in own revenue. So the revenues from charges, fees and taxes are increased in storage areas, garages, etc., and a regulation adopted by the SYRIZA, supported by the current government, too. The cultural sector for 2021 is sinking into the degrading amount of 0.04%. The orientation is the establishment of Greece as a destination of high cultural interest, that is to say, at the service of the tourist industry. So in this damaged sector too, the consequences of the pandemic and the way the government has placed itself on its problems! But your statements on the 'green dimension' are hypocritical. It is a support for monopolistic groups that invest in the green capitalist economy as a way out of profitability in accumulated capital. The programme "PYROSTECHESSIONS" shows political repression rather than forest fire prevention. Forests are not fully protected since you have the cost-benefit logic and you grant them as cheap land to entrepreneurs. You are indeed strengthening the suppression mechanisms instead of prevention. You support the Forest Service, but you give money to buy vehicles of the type "Aidas", not for the Firefighting, but for the suppression of popular mobilizations, as you did on the anniversary of the Polytechnic. Shame on you! You are using them against the enemy - people and not the enemy of forests, or fires. However, your hypocrisy is great for the so-called management of infectious waste, when you put your back on the Chinese monopoly in Piraeus by subsidising you and the previous SYRIZA government at 95% the project it builds on the southern pier, destroying the Pirate. It is an environmental and cultural crime, since no protection measures have been taken, although it was committed to the burial monument of Themistokle. Over the last few days due to weather the impurities have been scattered near the monument, polluting the sea. Many are residents' protests, complaints with monthly reports. We testify to them because the government is deaf. Its environmental and cultural sensitivity ends where the profits of monopolies begin. So your budget is classic, anti-grassy, unfair, at the service of capitalist barbarism. The criticism of the other parties is based on the insolvency of assessments. So there is no philosophical management within this rotten system. You do not guarantee permanent and stable work to workers or exclusively public and free health for the people and education for their children, although the development of science and technology allows it. Nor do you ensure cultural and sport and public centres or welfare and social services, cheap energy and modern and adequate mass transport and so many others that the socialist societies had won, because your inhuman system has a god for gaining and marketing human needs. And you're the profit of businessmen you're strengthening. There is one solution in these deadlocks: the break and the overthrow of capitalist barbarism, because then there will be zero unemployment, hunger, homeless, uncertainty and insecurity, because the centre will be man and his needs. This is socialism, popular prosperity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u86	I would ask that the Step be prepared to get the floor for the Greek MP, Konstantinos Hetas, for twelve minutes and stress it. I stress this, so that you do not go beyond it, because we need to close the circle of rapporteurs and special rapporteurs tonight. Mr. Heta, you have the floor for twelve minutes. Once you're through, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u87	Mr President, thank you very much. Mr. Ministers, it is really a pity at the altar of your political controversy and the steadfast fights in the House to sacrifice the dignity of the Greek. Because that's what happened here a while ago. The parliamentary representative of your party cannot "hand us" and tell us, Minister, that the juncture we are experiencing - now he remembered the juncture - for Greek citizens and to pay attention to what we say from this Step. You can say this to your ministers, Mr. Parliamentary Representative. Why, Minister, is it not possible in this Chamber, with the image of the economy out there - are you going out there? Do you guys have any fun? I do not know where you are - with the image presented by the Greek and Greeks at the moment, with the businesses, the padlocks, the lockdown, speaking and listening in this Chamber that you have managed to protect the labour market, to hear such things in here, first and foremost. How did you do that, telling him that "you're going to sit at your house, you won't be working, I'm going to give you a little allowance"? And then 'protect the labour market'! Listen. To come here, in the most difficult budget of the century perhaps, and to see how we can help these people out there, beyond party controversies, stationed fights and anything else, or who is a better scientist, Staruras or Tsakalot. That's not what the citizen cares about. He wants to eat. He wants to work. His dignity to recover wants to be restored. He doesn't care about anything else. You must say that it is difficult, not to celebrate and open'sampan's' for unemployment. Is it possible to say in this Chamber today that unemployment has declined while people outside have gone crazy? The Greek can't hear such things. Can this government celebrate that it has reduced unemployment? I have heard today from a first-class member of the government saying: 'One million euros the fines'. Are you celebrating that you've put a million euros in the Greeks for the masks? Are you celebrating that so many human lives have been lost less than others? Are you celebrating that you're taking care of the low-wages? Is it possible to celebrate? The head has to bend, not celebrate, let's do something for these people. Are you celebrating household deposits increased? What are we talking about, who are we addressing? It's hours of responsibility, it's no time for a political controversy. It's time to show the human face to the world and society, because what you're saying belongs to another virtual reality sphere. The virtual reality - I'm sorry to say - means lie. It's not the real picture, it's a virtual reality. It means you're pretending and lying. You're lying to me. And your budget is a lie is, a government in "triangularity", with many bounces on your journey as a "capitan", Mr. Stakoura, but it's in "triangularity", in "future" great. You've been making mistakes for a year. It is this government that the Chief told you to the Greeks that for the eruption of the coronary was not responsible for the opening of tourism. Which "before a mockery speaks three", Minister of yours admitted that you fell out as a government, you. You're the one who gave tens of millions of euros to the media. You're the ones who throw away 4-5 million euros for the big walk. You wasted another EUR 6 million on the masks - parachutes for children. With all this money some "wonders" could have been done, small but really miracles. Not like the "wonder" of the one-digit recession that you had predicted a year and a half ago - two months ago. Because there was another miracle, unbelievable. Even the first year of economic schools could tell you that the recession in 2021 will move to two-digit percentages. The worst thing is that in an already bankrupt country - because you are entering some comparisons, Minister, with other European countries, whose GDP in previous years has been increasing, there has been no 25% reduction - which comes from memoranda of ten - eleven years we also have this recession. It's over! It's over! In a bankrupt country minus 10% means double the damage, Minister. In fact, minus 10.5% realistic is minus 17%. You know that, because you're experienced. And the recovery will come, though, in 2030 and put it in. So we have this budget in front of us. It will remain in history, not for its effectiveness, but for the frightful failure of your ultimate policy. I cannot explain otherwise the fact that while the country is sinking into recession, in pandemic, restrictions, insecurity, you see the Santa's bag full. Unbelievable! How is that possible? Where exactly does it turn out, to understand that the economy in 2021 will increase by 4.8%? Where does that come from, so I can understand it? Do we live in another country? But are we seeing numbers? Are we talking to other people? How does it appear that Greece's debt in 2021 should begin to fall to 199 % of GDP? How do you claim that unemployment is projected to fall by one percentage point to 17.9%? How can you claim that investments are expected to increase by 23.2% in 2021, after precipitation of 14.3% this year? What dream of these tax revenues? Because as long as you, Minister, have dreams, we have nightmares. Your dreams are the nightmares of the Greeks. It is certain that neither the challenges of the krone are responding to this budget nor to the additional challenges, which are economical and result from geopolitical tensions in the Aegean and from the increasing flows of illegal immigrants and from natural disasters, which, unfortunately, have often hit the door lately. Here lies the great difference between the Greek Solution and your own state, Ministers. For you, sustainable policy is the same as the figures and satisfaction of the lenders and the European Union, which - in introductory terms -'supports us'. We have seen them today, and we have seen the support. Erdogan corruption in favour of Merkel and the European Union! For us, however, Minister, sustainable policy means, first and foremost, anthropcentric policy, real and capable of alleviating the Greeks who are going through this difficult period. To offer them a decent living, a job, a prospect, a hope and not a share of crumbs, merciful, false promises. As far as tourism is concerned, we have said this from the outset that it is a mistake for our national economy, our country's national economy, to rely solely on a sector, on a source of revenue. We said that we should broaden our horizons, turn to other economic models, turn to neglected primary production, product processing, support to our farmers, support our fishermen, give incentives, invest in agriculture. That is where the so-called 'heavy industry' for you does not exist. Revenue has been dismantled. And if we calculate that 20-25% of our country's GDP is based on tourist revenue, then the recession will be launched further. That's why it's really incomprehensible that you claim tourism will recover in 2021. Who and, in particular, how many tourists do you think will come? Are we talking about domestic tourism, which has been a luxury for the Greek for years, anyway? That's how you budget, Minister? If so, then you're really all out of reality. Do you know how many tourist businesses they've put on a padlock? I was reading it a while ago. They're still waiting for TUI's money. Mr. Logiadis from Mera25, who'll talk soon, will tell us. Hotels have man. Lucetta! Unemployment! How will these people work? So where are you relying on unemployment falling to 17.9% in 2021? How do you plan to increase employment? What employment? Are there any jobs and we don't see them? How are these going to be? I really don't know. You know how many Greek families live below the poverty line and are, unfortunately, a reality. I wish I was a populist and I was lying. Unfortunately, however, I am telling the truth. I'm afraid so. People are leaving Greece, going outside. And those outside don't want to go back. How will they come back? A decent job they want. That's what they're looking for. Nothing more. No charity, they don't want any benefits. They won't open the catering shops - new, today - in the Christmas season. It's over! It's over, like the retail trade. The locks are gonna rain. We're talking about disaster. We are now going to the illegal immigrants who enjoy privileges. And while you ask for land and water, Mr. Minister, from the Greeks, to the illegally entering "investors", as you have baptized them, you offer to his feet in the promised land. You offer them legal aid, legal representation, health care, shelter, food, support from NGOs and the list has no end. And all that with the flows growing. And the cherry on the cake is the 2021 budget, which provides for 564 million euros for them. We're talking about half a billion. What we have given for our equipment in 2020. In 2020, we gave 500 million. Now we're going to give $2.5 billion and a good one. More, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, We are going to vote on this article on our equipment and on our defence. However, what we gave 2020 for armaments, we give for illegal entry in our country in 2021. We give 564 million of which - to be heard - 414 million is warm Greek money. Leave the European Union out of the way. Me and you and Greek will pay this 414 out of 564 million. There's money for them, not Greek! Let's go to tax policy. You'll drink the blood. The revenue provided for by taxes in 2021 is EUR 47,8 billion. It will be increased compared to 2020 by 3.5 billion. The income tax will reach 10.2 billion, increased by 163 million euros. VAT will reach 17.5 billion, increased by 2.5 billion over last year. The day before yesterday, we had the conversation about smuggling. It's 500 million a year from fuel, 700 million from cigarettes, 40 million from alcoholic drinks. About 1 billion a year from smuggling. Why? Because taxes are high and we are pushing Greeks into illegal and smuggling. What did we tell you? Traffic charge. Three to four months. Cut the amount. What are you doing? He won't pay for it now, he'll pay for it later. By postponing and transferring obligations and payments for tomorrow, you are not getting away with it. You hide the problem underneath the mess. You don't solve it. What makes you think that the average Greek, who doesn't have to pay now, will have in three months? How's that gonna happen? What would that man pay for first? For health, very quickly, Mr President, because I don't have time. Cut half the costs for the EEA, for health, from 608 to 300 million! And leave the 3 billion pillow we'll use, as my colleague said before. And of these 300 million who are ultimately staying for health - from 608 to 300 million - 170 million is spent on non-compulsory vaccination, as you say - we will see this - and there are 130 million left for the EEA. That's what's left of it. There's 130 million left. Finally - and I am closing down, Mr President - your budget is neither realistic nor effective. The worst is that it eliminates the Greek taxpayers, the pensioners, the unemployed and the people of the market and production. So stand by the Greeks and not the Greeks. Get out of the sight of your reversible fiscal policy for Greek citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u88	We are also grateful for the time approach. Please prepare the Step in order for the MEP of Mera25 to take the floor for twelve minutes. Here, Mr. Loyadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ending in a few days in 2020, we should first of all mention that this year we celebrate two and a half thousand years from the heroic battle of the Thermopoils with its eternal example and the epic battle of Salamis. Price, glory and pride. Ladies and gentlemen, I read from the draft report on the 2021 budget in chapter 1, page 22: "It is indicative that the percentage of Greece's population at risk of poverty for 2019 is 42%, based on 2008 figures." You are telling us that 42% of the population lives with an income that is lower than the 2008 poverty line. Acquisition to the ultimate! We've been trapped in a huge debt prison that you've entangled us, you've put us in the last three governments since 2010, signing the memos. The debts of legal and natural persons to the public have increased this year and the debt of taxpayers to the public has exceeded EUR 106 billion, of which EUR 22.6 billion or 21.3% can never be collected. In 2020 GDP decreased, the public debt increased further, and the ratio of government debt to GDP went up. Here we must also stress that 2019 GDP has been re-estimated by ELSTAT by 4 billion less than the original government debt ratio to GDP and has become even more unbearable. Previously, Minister, you said five billion. Mr. Skulakakis told the committees about four billion. Decide. After ten years of destruction and depreciation of the country's productive tissue, as well as the escaping of its inspiring potential with the Brain drain, the coronary pandemic is increasing the destructive course of the memorial years. The 2021 budget predicts that tax collection will increase by 3.5 billion or 11%. Costs are projected to decrease over EUR 2 billion, and should normally increase drastically as a result of the pandemic. We, Mera25, have recently tabled an amendment to tax for very large companies, businesses, such as Facebook, Amazon, Netflix, Google. In England, France, Italy and elsewhere, such taxes have already been imposed. Why don't you do it? How independent are we really like Greeks? It is clear that the government has deliberately underestimated the obvious that the closure of the economy twice as far as tourism would lead to sharp and rapid reductions in GDP, with a corresponding fatal effect on the incomes of the population and on the budget. You, Mr Stagiora, said on 7 April 2020 in an article in "KATHMERINA": "In Europe, the individual societies are experiencing a lower or higher cost of this enormous health and economic crisis, whose extent and impacts are much greater than originally foreseen." In the House, however, at the same time you were enjoying the evidence. And you continue in your own article: "I believe that a catalyst move is needed that will offer a strong liquidity injection to the national and European economy, by issuing a common European account", wrote. However, by taking part in the Eurogroup on 9 April 2020, you obviously forgot what you had written in your article or simply loyally obeyed the orders from above, Brussels and Berlin. I would like to remind you of something historic. 'Actual unification of different states only takes place with a common debt'. Alexander Hamilton, the founders of the United States, had said so, Minister of Finance at George Washington. Do you have the courage and political will to do so? We don't see it. And the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Skylakakis, in every speech in the House, says that each euro is a loan and will be refunded with taxes. I read what he said on 10 September and 10 November in the House: 'We must calculate that, because we are making a deficit, all the money we spend is really loan. And it's not a loan from someone else, it's a loan from ourselves in the future. We take them from the markets, but we'll give them back. All costs therefore have taxpayers who will be invited to pay it in the future." Yeah, you're telling us. The fifth memorandum is already here. That is what we in Mera25 have been showing since the beginning of the crisis. And the head of the European Stability Mechanism, the ESM, Klaus Regling, swings your finger so that Greece doesn't get away from the narrow corset of budgetary discipline, while the economy and society are squeezing at the expense of the economic crisis. Mr. Pylakakis, you are sincere and fully compatible with your political position because you have time to say that the memorials and austerity are the only solution to the Greek problem. But you have not yet realised, unfortunately, that this is a global war that needs another response. Of course we know that at the end you will do what the troika will impose on you, because you have neither the courage nor the political will to stand up and veto such as Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland or the Netherlands at the Eurogroup in April this year. The only one who had the courage, but also the political will with 62% of the Greek people, to stand up was Yiannis Varoufakis. You also know very well that there will be opportunities to invest after the pandemic and especially the very big players and, as we have seen, the few rich will become richer and the very poorer. The ladder will open - the data show it - and the inequalities will increase. We, like the General Confederation of Professionals of Craft Trades in Greece, GSEVE, and many others, of course, worldwide, need to be deleted, because these are not sustainable, as was the case with Germany's debts after World War II, contrary to what happened with Germany's debts again after World War I. With regard to the Public Investment Programme, the main objective of the programme to achieve the 2021 budget objective is the full absorption and utilisation of the funds allocated with emphasis on those coming from the co-financed programmes. But we know that the absorption of these Community funds so far amounts to less than 30%. One very serious reason is that the LAGs do not have the proper technical services and infrastructure to achieve higher absorption. We therefore conclude that this objective is very optimistic and very difficult to achieve, essentially impracticable. The rapporteur's report, in the third chapter of page 99, states that "FAD participates with projects in a large part of the financial investment programme of the entity". Amount not reported. Is the ADP really so unaccountable and independent? With regard to the Ministry of Education: Minister, you detest public education. Ten thousand teachers were not re-entered this year because of the non-payment of a 3 euro trespass and you fooled them that it was a mistake of the system that you did not correct, as you promised. Teleconferencing in schools is crumbling, class problems are growing because, for example, not all students have the necessary means, tablets and computers. It should be noted that in my prefecture, in Heraklion, some seven hundred children are thus excluded from tele-education in primary education. There are many thousands of micro - debtors to PPC, where PPC goes to cut their current. It is well-known that the parents who ask PPC to leave them the current for an hour longer, to complete the teleconferencing conference at school. As parliamentarian of Heraklion, but also as Cretan, Mr Digalakis, I should like to denounce and burn down also that the recent Pissaridis report fails - deliberately? - the research and innovation system in Crete, Heraklion and Chania, which has the highest innovation index and has already exceeded the corresponding Community indicator. I read from the report: "It completely ignores the potential of the mature research and innovation ecosystem in Crete". At Heraklion is the University and FORTH, in Chania the Polytechnics School. This is despite the fact that according to the European Union's innovation scoreboard, the Region of Crete has the highest performance on innovation indicators in the country. HELL is global in scope, and I'm proud of it. So what development does this report mention when it overlooks the number one research and innovative ecosystem of FORTH and Crete? Regarding the Ministry of Health: In the regular budget of the Ministry, where appropriations are provided for the smooth and efficient functioning of the country's primary and secondary health care services and for transfers aimed at continuous improvement of the level of services offered, the renewal and modernisation of both medical equipment and building infrastructure, as well as ensuring the uninterrupted supply process with medical and other equipment, we see a reduction of EUR 4,76 billion at EUR 4,2 billion in 2021. Instead of increasing funds, which, on the contrary, both Italy and Spain, for example, have sharply increased their social costs in the areas of public health and public education. The programme through the Ministry of Health's Public Investment Budget, on expenditure on hospital equipment, on the operation of children's stations and old homes, on the creation of structures for the decommissioning of mental patients, as well as on mental health care facilities, from 70 million in 2020 to 60 million in 2021. The Government refuses you, thus, to support the public health system and primary health care after the unprecedented cuts in public health expenditure that took place in the last ten Memorandum years. Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs from 24.7 billion in 2020 will be allocated EUR 22.7 billion in 2021. Furthermore, the report states that there is a reduction of three percentage points in the insurance contributions of private operator employees. Good, but ashes in the eyes. It would be preferable for the healthy economy, unfair competition and smuggling, from which they live and reign and, of course, to combat undeclared 'black' work, particularly affecting healthy businesses. And I'm talking to you as an entrepreneur. Ministry of Development and Island Policy: The appropriations for the Ministry's regular budget relate to expenditure, for example, for the preservation of the maritime routes of entry into the country and to the provision of needs related to migration and refugee flows, maritime safety and human life in the country, the planning and implementation of the island policy. The 290 million 2020 will be reduced to 269 million in 2021, despite the enormous challenges and demands. The Ministry's Public Investment Programme on subsidisation of barren lines, the development of island areas and the coverage of local social needs, etc., from 165 million in 2020 to 140 million in 2021. Ministry of Tourism: The flagship of our economy, the lever of growth and the key to the success of the budget is revenue from tourism, which contributes approximately 30% to the country's GDP, in many islands over 80% of their local GDP. Beyond the economic size of tourism, we must recognise the value of tourism at social level, because tourism contributes, so that remote but also many small islands, are not abandoned or devastated. The tourism and focus sector fell the biggest in 2020 because of the pandemic. In 2020 we had a 97% reduction in revenue from Russia, 93% from the USA and 70% from France and Germany, without taking into account whether TUI paid its debts this year to Greek tourist enterprises. Prices internationally and in Greece, too, have been under enormous pressure and reductions. Greek tourism cannot compete with the low prices of third countries, cheap countries, such as Turkey, Tunisia, Egypt, which offer the same product or even countries of the European Union, such as Spain, with the scale economy that it has in tourism. Greece does not have a common border with the main countries of origin of tourism and also as a multinational country fully dependent on air connections, charterers and low cost flights. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The great international competition, the pressure on prices combined with the minimum negotiating power of Greek companies, the airlines which have also suffered enormous damage, the tour operators, where many of them are in bankruptcy limits after last year's bankruptcy of the second largest tour operator, Themas Cook - this year, number one, TUI - do not give us the optimism for the revenues of 2021. Greece, as a unique and boutique destination, must be detached from mass tourism, which leads to the degradation of the environment and the destruction of resources, we stress in Mera25, and it is necessary to extend the tourist season. In 2000 we had 12.4 million visitors with revenues of 10.1 billion and average per capita expenditure of 814 euros. In 2019 we had 31.3 million visitors with 17.7 billion euros and an average per capita expenditure of 565 euros. Despite these enormous efforts to be made in this direction, I see in the 2021 budget that the funds intended for the promotion of the country abroad, for tourism education and training and for the creation of new tour schools in Crete, Rhodes, Corfu and the promotion of development initiatives and others, from 89 million in 2020, have been reduced to 57 million. It's a huge 36% reduction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u90	Finish, Mr. Loyadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u91	I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, apart from tourism and its revenues, it is a very important component in the area of rural development. Like tourism, Greek agricultural products, which are unique and of high quality, cannot compete with prices of similar products from third countries. Top product olive oil accounts for 61.2% of the exports of the agri-food sector and 32.8% of the total exports of Crete. Prices for this product, as for the tourist product, are fixed by those controlling the promotional network of the product concerned. The Greek producers are herds of Italians and Spaniards who control the trade in olive oil. Therefore, another strategy, the creation of a body, a network to promote each product, is needed to achieve fair and sustainable prices so that farmers can ensure a decent living from work, as well as a greater specific weight in the value chain. There have to be support in Greece until now, such as the crowd farming which is a great success in Spain, Germany, Belgium and other countries. Four hundred European institutions request a link between direct payments and farmers' production...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u92	Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u93	...and not with the earth, not area support.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u94	You don't have any more time. I'm very sorry, but you've gone far beyond your time. Close with one sentence, vote or vote. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u95	I will close with the words of my compatriot, Nikos Kazantzakis, "Get where you can't." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u96	I would ask that the Step be prepared to take the floor by the Special Rapporteur of the New Democracy, MEP, Sophia Vultesis. Here, Mrs. Vulge, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In fact, the Civic Antipolitics must be in too much despair to continue to smash the dead of the coronary. Look, every man, every human life is valuable, has its value and is a value irreplaceable. Much more young people are lost, but also large people from those who have set up Greece on their feet more than a pile of ruins. It was heard in here that we have a mathematical downturn, not only mathematical mathematics, but also bakery. Only people die, Mr. Comrade? Aren't others born? Do you want to teach those maths to the kids? Isn't that why you're voting for the education budget? What are we listening to? Much more so if you see ELSTAT's nine-month data we have fewer deaths this year since 2019. I don't want to play with deaths, but you can't say we have a population reduction depending on how many people die like no one is born. What kind of statistic is that? Look there in Spain to your friend Iglesias, who the official national statistical agency has now pulled out that there are thirty thousand more dead coronary. No opposition parties in Europe treat as SYRIZA. He didn't just back off, but he didn't vote any meters, nor did the allowance for doctors...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u98	Your political party in Spain denounces killers...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u99	I'll tell you about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u100	Mr. Chakatte, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u101	The brother party...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u102	I'll tell you about that. You are not well read for Spain.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u103	Mr. Chakatte, your opinion will be given when you take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u104	Stop talking to you? I'll tell you about Spain to see what happened there. Well, the support measures of the European Union don't like you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u105	Huge opposition...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u106	Television education is shaking you. You only have the solutions from around the world. So what mistake has Putin made in Russia today announcing a record of the dead and the cases? What's wrong with Merkel announcing the same thing today? What is wrong with Costa, your partner in Portugal? No one talks like that, no opposition in these countries. Unless you want to go consult them, I've told you before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u107	Except the People's Party in Spain.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u108	Mr Chakatte, I'm sorry, this is not a procedure. They once respected you as a minister, as a Member of Parliament, as a speaker. You will respect when everyone speaks and speaks his opinion. Please don't interrupt again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u109	Lies have short feet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u110	It's not a lie ELSTAT's evidence. You don't know how to read them probably.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u111	We're talking about the People's Party.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u112	I'll tell you. It's getting saliva right now. Read "EL PAIS".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u113	Mr. Chakatte, you're not correcting me. Carry on, Mrs. Vulge.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u114	Listen, despite the unprecedented crisis, the 2021 budget not only includes no tax, but includes new tax reductions. We've been over and over in the committee. It includes a reduction in insurance contributions, abolition of a solidarity contribution, cover for insurance contributions from the State budget, extension of the VAT reduction to the persons affected until April 2021. And with regard to education - for which you are so much tired - the whole world gives the battle so that it does not end up being the great loser of the pandemic. Television education has entered the lives of all developed countries - unfortunately not all countries - but no new schools have been built or alternative rooms have been found because they fear earthquakes. It's very simple. In Greece, huge efforts have been made. In 2020 nearly fifty thousand additional teachers were recruited, additional funds were allocated for disinfection. Education funds within the corneal crisis have been voted by this House, without you, of EUR 318 million. Despite the memorialities and catastrophe Greece belongs to the countries that have achieved teleworking. All that is heard, examples from other countries, is simply not true. One example will convince the most misguided. I don't know if he'll convince Mr. Chakaloto. In Germany alone 14% of the students received the laptops from the much-discussed European programme, which you are constantly referring to. And there in Germany, the survey showed that 62% of teachers do not have the necessary technological knowledge. We have an increase in the education budget this year. You know the numbers. It's 5.6% versus 5.5%. You also know that the only time he had before the number four, that is, 4 billion the education budget was the 2016 budget that you set it up after 2015 for the memorial to be tombs and would be a dala noon and you would have made the seventeen-hour negotiation. As far as defence is concerned: all of us have recognised the great offer of the Armed Forces, which with effectiveness, consensus, high national minds, remain on constant standby and guard land and sea borders, preventing any external challenge. The conditions created in 2020 all Greeks recognise that it was war conditions in fact and that they highlighted the need to strengthen our national arsenal. So the National Defence Budget for 2021 is growing. It appears at around 5.5 billion from the state budget compared with 3.8 billion in the 2020 budget. And with the exception of expenditure on workers' benefits, it amounts to almost 2.5 billion from the total amount of 2,519 for the new armaments programme. And I don't think there's anyone in this country with all that we've lived for, and we're still living, who's gonna think we don't need to equip our defenses. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has plunged the global economy into recession. In contrast to what we are hearing here, it is only in Greece that this is happening, for example, that a record recession has been announced in Britain over the last three hundred years. In Germany, a record recession has been announced since 1970 and Austria the biggest recession since World War II. Japan and France announced a record of unemployment. South Africa, Africa's largest industrial power, announced a fall in GDP of more than 50%. The tourist countries have seen their tourist revenues sinking. The World Tourism Organization has announced a loss of EUR 460 billion in the first half of the year. It is the highest proportion of GDP since World War II. Yesterday, in Germany and France, the finance ministers announced an upcoming bankruptcy record. No opposition to any country was conceived of charging the recession to no government. So is it possible that no one on the planet has found the solution and only SYRIZA can have it in his pocket? And in any case, does anyone from the Opposition have to tell us why Switzerland is facing such a serious problem that it has had to bring the army into its hospitals to help? Does Switzerland have money for recruitment and intensive treatment units? So does Switzerland not have solutions and does SYRIZA have them? So let us not turn a global problem into a Greek problem with pheasantness. It's no less fighting opposition in the rest of the world. They are not foolish - and I now come to what we have said - in Portugal that the measures of the left government have also been passed by Central Right and Right. The Portuguese opposition is not foolish when it said that we now do not have the socialist government, we have the Portuguese Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u115	Salvini what did he do in Italy?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u116	He voted for the government's measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u117	Mr. Philly, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u118	Mr. Philly, you're not up to date.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u119	What's the status?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u120	He put the subject of choices in the pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u121	Berlusconi voted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u122	Mr. Philly, respect the process, as you were all respected when you were speaking. Nobody interrupted you while not everyone agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u123	He asked me, that's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u124	When you don't agree, you don't interrupt. Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u125	How uncomfortable the truths are for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u126	I had no reason to have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u127	What's the status?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u128	In Portugal we said, the Right voted for the left measures. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u129	In Spain?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u130	I'll tell you now. In Germany, the Germans are not foolish. They have all voted together, Christian Democrats, social democrats, Christian socialists, liberals and greens. Nor are the Swedishs fools who voted for the measures of the green-red government. And they are neither foolish - I come to this - the Spanish People's Party, the Spanish Right who voted against the motion of censure, against the Sanchez and Iglesian Government, although you know very well that he had every reason to want to cast a minority government, namely the people who had taken them into Parliament, without them having the majority. And the social democrats in Austria who voted for the right-wing Chancellor Kurts measures, along with the green ones, are not foolish. And it is not foolish to see the British workers who voted at the beginning of November for the measures of Conservative Boris Johnson and at the end of November for the new measures, because there was insurrection within the Johnson party itself. They made it easier for Conservative Boris Johnson to pass through, leaving the room. Britain's Workers. Of course, it is not foolish - I come to what you said - the three right-wing parties in Italy, namely Berlusconi, Forza Italia, Lega of the North with Salvini and the brothers of Italy who voted together with the left-wing parties, saying clearly 'We remain in opposition, we do not convene, but this is a vote of love for Italy'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u131	Well done, Sofia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u132	In short, not everyone else in Europe is foolish, and only the SYRIZA here thinks it is very intelligent to fight against the trenches of a blind opposition. Nobody understands you anymore. You haven't voted for anything. No suspension of taxes, no health benefits, nothing. There is no legislative act that came here in the House in the pandemic that was passed by you. You are 'no' to 'no'. Why is that so? You told us at some point that because it comes by legislative act, which is not a democratic one. Excuse me, gentlemen. In five legislative acts you closed the banks. And not forget that by means of an act of legislation you organised the ridiculous referendum - take note of this is institutional which you have done, serious - to shorten time in order to send people to the polls. So, because you know very well that I'm watching them and because you know very well that when I say something, I've crossed it from ten sides if you find me a country that has done better than we have done better than we have done better and done more, if you find a country - and look at you, I told you about Switzerland, which I don't think has a problem - then we should talk about it. And if you find me an opposition, which on this world war has acted like you, your opposition - like and not - then we will actually sit down and talk about it. I'm telling you, you won't find anything either case or case. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u133	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u134	Mr President, there is a serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u135	What serious matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u136	He talked about a ridiculous referendum.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u137	You don't have the floor, Mr. Philly. That's not why I'm here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u138	It's a disgrace to what you're saying! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u139	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u140	You made a fool of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u141	I would like to ask Mr Blonde, a special rapporteur for SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance to take the floor for twelve minutes. Invitation to all agreed or disagreed wings shall not interrupt the speaker. Hot request to all wings and you mean what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is ending and Mrs Vulture has made sure she is alive. So the answer is very simple. From the political party that made the political bombardment and the death-failing flag of opportunity to return to power, we do not accept this type of criticism. And as Eukleidis Tsakalots quite rightly said before your holistic party, the People's Party of Spain, as well as the far right-wing VOX, call Sanchez and the Government of Socialist Podemos killers. This is how the right parties treat themselves in this great crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u143	You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u144	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u145	Don't interrupt, Mrs. Swollen. Hot request.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u146	You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u147	Mrs. Vuldesis, please warmly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u148	The debate on the budget certainly also has the element of the confrontation of data, indicators and data. Mr Stakoras is not here, who unfortunately fell into two treaty lies. He showed us the table, and he told us that what we had presented, that Greece is the last country on the basis of the OECD table, but has raised six positions and that at that time it was at the end of April. So the six countries that were supposed to have passed, I will tell you exactly when they have reported and when they have informed the OECD about their costs. Iceland on 21 April, the Netherlands on 24 April, Denmark on 29 May, Lithuania on 1 July, Austria on 6 May, Portugal on 18 June. We've given it on September 21st. So this rise in the scale has emerged, that is, that the other countries have not provided data and that is the costs of three, four months ago. So leave it in history because, ladies and gentlemen, you are being exposed. I'm filing the table in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u149	Confess it! Confess to be a disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u150	Why such a turbulence?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u151	He also said Mr. Stakoras that public health expenditure on SYRIZA was reduced compared to 2014. Irresponsible lies. ELSTAT, Piraeus 31 March 2020, 2014: 8,088 billion, 2015: 8,182 billion, 2016: 8,805 billion, 2017 we have a small fall, indeed in 2018, but clearly over 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u152	How do you talk about 2018?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u153	I'd like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u154	Leave me now, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u155	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u156	And anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u157	Please! Please! When you get the floor, you'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u158	Where are these evidences from?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u159	From ELSTAT.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u160	Please! You'll answer as soon as you get the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u161	State Budget and social security contributions!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u162	Please don't embarrass me!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u163	Will you testify to that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u164	Please, Mr. Levane! Take the floor then as a parliamentarian and say what you want. You have the right to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u165	Of course I'll testify! I'm filing it now. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Xanthos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But in any case, the question is as follows: if public expenditure on SYRIZA were reduced, would you please explain to us how we have universally covered uninsured citizens and refugees from the health system? How did we open a hundred and twenty - seven new public primary care structures? How did we open a hundred and twenty extra ITH beds without having a pandemic? How did we make seven thousand permanent recruitments? The Minister for Health has accepted that. How did we do more than ten thousand contract hires? How did we open a closed hospital, the Patisian Hospital, which was closed by your own government? We reopened it as a civil-type health center. How did we do all this? Okay, we did an honest management, but I'm sure they needed more resources. So let these comparisons be made because you're being exposed. Let us go a little now and in the budget itself. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an evolving health tragedy in the country. That's the truth no matter how much you don't like it. You go talk to the doctors and nurses of the hospitals of Thessaloniki, Drama, Kilkis, Pierre and tell them we're doing better than other countries. "Learn to find us", said Mrs Vultesis, "a country that is better than us." Are you fully aware of the reality, yes or no? I'm not talking about empathy. Do you have any basic awareness? At a time when the health system is being pressed unbearably, while the epidemic wave after five weeks of lockdown is not bent, while hospitals have crashed in northern Greece, while doctors and people on the front are on Burn out, when society really lives a great agony, insecurity and uncertainty, you are bringing us a budget that provides for EUR 572 million less health service expenditure. At the top of the health crisis! Is this compatible with the reality of the health system and society? Is it possible for you to be so obsessed and idealistic? And you're telling us that we have three billion riders, which we need to spend. But that's the mistake. The wrong thing is that now that the health crisis is serious, instead of investing resources, instead of giving a sign of brave investment and intervention to the health system, to strengthen people's morality, you are starting to create the climate that a boor was and passed. "The pandemic is leaving, the vaccine is coming. Why spend? Yesterday I was in a conversation with colleagues from Pieria, from Katerina Hospital, and they told me that the commander - I may be wrong, may be from another, adjoining hospital - claimed 'we', why now take extra subsidiary doctors at this time? What will we do to them after the pandemic?" That is your opinion. It is a temporary, extraordinary treaty, which will end and therefore there is no need for budgetary support in the budget for 2021. I think you have understood nothing from this scanning, as the World Health Organisation calls it, a health crisis, which has created new needs, new inequalities and new challenges. What are these new needs? Strong primary care, decentralised public structures, institution of the family doctor and health team that acts and emphasises prevention, health care, community care, mobile units and home surveillance, to monitor the people who are at home today while they are in quarantine and no one cares with them. Here's a void. And other people who have severe chronic illnesses and avoid going to the hospital. Here is a void of care, which pandemic has highlighted. Nothing about it. Community services of mental health. Emergency medicine. Units of infection. Meta-medical care and especially post COVID follow-up. Medicines especially because we are dealing with a serious multi-systemic disease. This is the international debate. Rehabilitation. Geriatric. Occupational medicine. Precise medicine. Healthy of the environment. Counselling by doctors. And of course, reorganization of public health services in the country. Because that's the big bet. This is what we have all understood, that it is not enough for you to have only care services, but you have to have services that intervene, have strong epidemiological surveillance mechanisms, interfere in time with emerging threats, contagious diseases and protect the health of the population. So these are the priorities and the targeting of a new public health system. This is the great need, which arises from the pandemic. Of course, in order for it to be able to be implemented, we need additional resources and human and material. And of course, it needs budgetary support. We consider it to be a first-class opportunity now, on the occasion of the pandemic, to have in a short time two, at least three years' time, starting from 2021, convergence with the average European conditions for public expenditure in relation to GDP, namely to reach 7% below 5%, which we are today. To be recruited by permanent staff, fifteen thousand doctors, nurses and other personnel. It is a huge intervention of perspective that must be created as a reserve from the pandemic. And, of course, to reconstruct the rewards of the people of the health system that we all recognize today's excellent offer. Upgrade and infrastructure with a national health infrastructure plan, which will make use of financial instruments European, Recovery Fund, EU4Health Special Financial Programme, ESDP, to make a serious intervention and investment, and not to need the PPP line, in which you insist, i.e. public-private partnerships, which wants to open up the ESS to the market and private investors. And of course we must approach Europe's average not only in the IF beds, per 100 000 people, which has rightly been set up, but also in the number of doctors and nurses per bed, either a single bed or a IF bed, in the costs for primary care, for mental health, for oral health, for the rehabilitation, which has always been shortened by the system. That's the only way there's going to be a hold-up from this big crisis. Only in this way can new needs be met. Only inequality can be tackled. Inequality is the issue. This is the dividing line between the conservative and the progressive political plan, between the neoliberal line, which wants to give space to the market, and between the left and progressive concept, which wants to give space to people's needs. That's our main difference. Unfortunately, the country is currently paying the price of managing a major, major health, economic and social crisis, a political force that does not believe in the public health system, does not believe in the social state, does not believe in state intervention in the market, does not believe in reducing inequalities, does not believe in redistribution policies. This is the drama. The budget, therefore, in our view increases the insecurity of society and health and work and the income and dignity of this country. That is why we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u166	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u167	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u168	Because there are several questions, firstly, in the table tabled by the honourable Member - which I have to say to you that I respect his attitude and views - in 2018, which is the last few years, he has a lower rate of expenditure on GDP since 2014. But because expenditure is of some importance to where they come from, I will only read to you four figures. In 2014, the costs of the Ministry of Health: 4750. In 2018, the costs of the Ministry of Health: 3849. And two more numbers. Social security contributions for health, what people insured for health pay. In 2014: 3,771,000. In 2018: 4.638.000.000. In common, you have increased the contributions of people rather than public expenditure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u169	The insurance costs are not public expenditure? All over the world...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u170	Mr. Xanthi, you spoke. You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u171	The synergy between resources results in public spending.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u172	Mr Lebanese has asked for the floor. You want a little intervention, Mr Levane. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u173	Mr. Xanthi, we really respect you in the New Democracy, as the Minister said. Do not do this to us, because, although you are being lured into this form of opposition, then we will have nowhere to claim that there are serious people in SYRIZA. You are in a reasonable inflation in relation to the future. Whatever the New Democracy government does, you want doubling. Seven thousand hired. Fifteen want. But you come along and follow the same inflationist policy in the past, and that is not what we are surprised about. The Minister told you quite rightly just now that at the end of the day, what you submitted seems very well that since 2014, you have a fall in GDP. The second element I see from the figures you have given us is that in downward GDP there is a small increase in the previous three years on the percentage. That's obvious. The real money, however, is falling. And we want you to finally tell us, if not you other speakers...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u174	I really read you. I did not say any percentages of GDP.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u175	Mr. Blonde, don't interrupt. Why such an irritation? Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u176	You have submitted percentages of GDP, and we have the real facts, which Mr Skokakis has mentioned and are very specific. Let's see the numbers and the next speakers talk about numbers. Apart from the increase in household health services, you did something else. You have increased the cost of hiring ancillary staff and not permanent staff to health, who are coming and leaving us at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u177	Seven thousand recruits permanently.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u178	Mr. Xanthi, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u179	And finally, the evidence is relentless, no matter how much you yell.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u180	You're a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u181	But how are we lying? I wasn't a minister then. I have the evidence. Is the evidence possible to lie?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u182	Mr. Blonde, don't get upset. When they talk to you, don't get upset and don't answer that way. Respect Parliament, as the rest of you respected when you spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u183	Mr President, it does not respect us at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u184	Who? Because he doesn't agree with you, doesn't he respect you? Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u185	If you'll excuse me, Mr. President, to close. I'm never talking about faces and I'm never a cripple. So I guess you're saying I'm lying. I wasn't in the country's political life. I see the numbers from the Greek Statistical Office. You call me a liar and our resignation. It's not like that. Have a nice time to come and tell us specifically about the numbers. And the last thing is that not only did you spend less money than we have in the health budget this year, obviously because of the increased conditions of COVID, but you also had less than the last budget and balance of the Samara government. Without lies, without voices and without places covering the substance with insults, come and see the numbers and numbers of the Greek people listening to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u186	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u187	Mr. Blonde, first, all I recommend is that you put your mask on. Secondly, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u188	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u189	Mr. Blonde has no say. He said his opinion. He got the answer. People judge and take their own conclusions. Mr Tsakalots is a parliamentary representative and has the right to speak. Here you are, Mr Chakalote, now you have the right not so many times that you have interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u190	Mr President, we are not respected by the government and we are not respected by the Members of the Chamber. The parliamentary representative knows that Mr Xanthos spoke with absolute figures, how much he spent a year, the second year, the third year, the fourth year. It's not possible! Mr. Spokesman, I heard his speech, which said what numbers they were. But, Mr President, this is not the basic one either.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u191	That can't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u192	Can I speak and do not interrupt?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u193	There's never been anyone to get up before, and...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u194	I'm telling you they don't respect anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u195	Mr. Chakaloto, go on. Look at me. Mr. Catarini, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u196	SKAI, Mr President, is dangerous to health. Do you know why the ‘SKAI’ is dangerous for health and should have a health warning, such as cigarette packets? Because ministers and MPs have learned that they will never be asked a difficult question. Example. The government presents us with an answer to a table that says that we are second to health expenditure. It says the government: “Since then I have been up six countries. We have exceeded six countries." Mr Xanthos tells you that these six countries have been left two and three months ago and they have not renewed the evidence. So in the worst case you're back in the past, and at best you've been through one or two countries. And they won't answer. They don't have to answer, because they know that when you have journalists like Mr. Papademitriou and go to "SKAI", you won't be asking a difficult question, they won't tell you that Mr. Friend says that about education, that Mr. Blontheos says that about health, that Ms. Xenojaannopoulos says this about work. You can say what you want, and you say what you want. You don't answer the questions. You don't answer the boards. It is a disgrace to Parliament and that is why you see us in this way, Mr President. This is how you see us, because this is the first time that a government has such a disgrace for Parliament itself, for Parliament itself, for you, for the Bureau, for us in opposition. He doesn't think he has any obligation to answer anything. He can say the same arguments. He can ignore the anti-professionals. And that's dangerous. It is dangerous for the health of democracy, Mr President. And if you see us sometimes escaping, we escape because we have a great concern for this society and for this democracy. We have a great concern about what will happen after COVID and how we have trained a people not to have any arguments, not to have a public sphere of democracy and confrontation. Mr President, you too, as a Bureau and opposition, have a very great duty to support it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u197	Mr Kedicoglou has the floor, as a special rapporteur for the New Democracy for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr President. The fact is, SYRIZA doesn't do well with numbers. He has still not found an answer to the 10 billion ELSTAT found missing from his works and days. Ladies and gentlemen, a classic definition says that the budget is the government's roadmap to shape economic and social progress in next year. The unprecedented peculiarity, however, in the case of 2021, is that this roadmap must be done in uncharted territories, as the international scenery forms, under the conditions of the global pandemic. We are giving a two-front fight against two counter-objectives, two objectives with conflicting demands. On the one hand, we must protect public health, on the other hand, we must support and revitalise the economy. Looking for the golden incision is not an easy case, let alone when the enemy, the global epidemic, attacks by waves. The current course of Greece - whatever SYRIZA says - in comparison to the international roundabout has reduced the losses to a significant extent, both in health and social terms, but no reassurance is allowed. It needs constant vigilance. That is why the 2021 budget is double. He's both warful and post-war, if I'm allowed to parallel. This is why we must continue to strengthen the country's health and social cohesion. We are in the middle of the second wave of pandemic and experts say there can be a third wave at the beginning of next year if there is unjustified relaxation. Post-war, because we must quickly rebuild the economy. Besides, the economic downturn caused by the coronary is the deeper than the end of World War II, so the characterization is not paradoxical. Let's start from the first front, health, because, above all, life is. The health ministry's expenditure, in addition to regular expenditure, increased by 788 million euros in 2020 compared to 2019, an increase of around 20%. Almost all of the increase, the EUR 784 million, is due to coronary-related expenditure. Now, it is pointed out - let us say this once again, because the repetition is a mother of learning - that regular health expenditure had already increased to EUR 4,043,000 in 2019 compared with EUR 3,675,000 in 2018. And to remind again that the last Samaras government in 2014 had expenditures of EUR 4,750,000, with the figures of each year's budgets, as they were submitted to the House. In other words, the last Samara government has had almost one billion euros more spending on the Ministry of Health than the last SYRIZA government. And because the former Minister, I am sorry that he is not in the Chamber, spoke to us in the committee with percentages of GDP. But then he forgot that 10 billion euros were missing, according to ELSTAT's latest figures. Now he has told us about GDP in terms of health expenditure. It's 7.5%. You probably did not take the citizens' contribution into account. For 2021 - to look at the future - it is predicted that regular expenditure, excluding coronary, will rise from EUR 4,043,000 000 this year to EUR 4,126,000 in 2021. As the costs of the coronary are exceptional and unforeseen, a further EUR 3 billion specific reserve has been provided for this, which I will say more later. But since my deep belief is that the crisis must prove to be an opportunity, I would like to refer to the proposals of the Pissaridis Committee on Health and I am sure that, because it has been referred to the committee and the Minister, Mr Scullyakis, the Recovery Fund, these findings can also be used in the context of the fund. The conclusion tracks strangles and suggests solutions. For example, there is a lack of evaluation of the quality of health care, such as post-importation mortality, hyposecution and irrational distribution of health potential, the lack of an organised primary care system. The proposals of the Pissaridis Committee include: The increase in the administrative and financial autonomy of public hospitals. Strengthening the evaluation system. The streamlining of expenditure. The rational distribution of medical staff and incentives to cover positions in border and inaccessible areas. I have an example from my special homeland, northern Evia. It's hard for doctors to come. Positions are given and notices are declared barren. Incentives must be given. They're not citizens of a lower god. The public-private synergies. Development of primary care. I do not think there are any objections to these findings. The conclusion of the Pissaridis Committee on Public Health must be taken into account, even if there is a dialogue. I think we all agree that we need to improve the health sector. Now, the protection of health, life is the first, major issue. Immediately, however, her quality follows. The protection of social cohesion. The protection of those who suffer heavier the economic consequences of the health crisis. I would particularly like to focus on the special reserve of EUR 3 billion, which is provided for in the budget, because it links the two fronts of the fight we are giving, because it links the two counterfactual objectives. The special reserve is intended to address the consequences of the coronary for 2021, health and economic consequences. Its distribution - quite rightly - has not been clarified, because there has to be flexibility. It is clear, however, that the better we are protected in health, the greater part of the reserve can be made available to deal with the economic consequences, to extend employment support measures, to strengthen specific sectors of the economy, to increase the number of beneficiaries. Protecting our health, we protect our economy. This message has to be passed. In 2020, every effort was made to maintain social cohesion, to protect vulnerable and vulnerable people, to keep the economy alive. In a number of measures we supported enterprises with reduced revenues, workers in the affected sectors, with special care for seasonal workers and those employed in the tourism, culture, sport, entertainment and food industry, free professionals and the self-employed, unemployed, farmers, property owners for rent reductions, who indirectly supported the vulnerable tenants, borrowers, transport - air, coastal and land-based - as well as transport operators. A total of sixty-two interventions were made. Together with the special reserve, the total is EUR 31,5 billion for 2020 and EUR 2021, 24 billion for 2020 and EUR 7,5 billion for 2021. In particular, it provides: 816 million for the reduction of the insurance contributions by three units, 767 million for the suspension of the private-sector special-purpose contribution, 322 million for insurance contributions from the State budget and the EUR 200 per recruitment of a long-term unemployed per month for six months to create a hundred thousand new jobs, 439 million for special-purpose compensation and 301 million for its increase. There are also 800 million in non-repayable grants to small and micro-enterprises through LAGs, 78 million for the extension of the ordinary part of the unemployment grant, 280 million for the GFCF programme for borrowers. Take into account all 131 million for additional recruitments of temporary health personnel, the 3 billion billion of the special reserve, used at dock, but certainly within the first half of 2021. It's a brave attempt. We have made every effort, because it is a war and we are throwing all our strengths, ladies and gentlemen. As far as GDP is concerned, Greece has the highest percentages in the European Union for the treatment of coronary virus, with positive results and social effects, with unemployment restraining and protecting small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, we particularly care for the most vulnerable groups, with the main vehicle of OPEKA, while continuing to pay for the pre-emptive benefits and financial assistance that have been legislation on insecure over-ages, child benefits, the minimum guaranteed income, the EUR 2 000 for each newborn, the housing subsidy, the preferential cash benefits for people with disabilities. Especially for these people, the improvement of their quality of life, the enhancement of their autonomous living and the elimination of obstacles to their equal social participation are one of our main priorities in the field of welfare and social solidarity, together with the fight against poverty and social exclusion and the promotion of modern and effective family support policies. The role of the Social Security Institutions, which are being refined, streamlined and modernised by the Government's reform initiatives, is decisive. The balance of all these agencies is projected to be in a surplus of EUR 754 million, improved by EUR 578 million compared to 2020. We therefore have defence, strong defence, health and social. But on the basis of the mass vaccinations, which are expected at the beginning of the new year and whose costs are borne by EOPY, we must move to the post-Koronian era. We're planning the counterattack, the repair of our economy. The main aim is to create many good jobs. Because it is good that we retained unemployment in pandemic conditions, but we need to get to its drastic reduction. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Just a moment, please, Mr President. The key is attracting investment, because we need to bring new money to our economy and our brother is the fact that we have already built two solid foundations. The first is the increasing confidence our economy enjoys internationally, as demonstrated by the rapid fall in borrowing rates, the Commission's reports, the assessment of international houses. The other foundation is that we have created an attractive framework for investment, with labour market reforms and taxation, by simplifying procedures, by combating bureaucracy. The central factor is the management and exploitation of the property of the Greek State and the privatizations. And that's where we're going with a certain programming. A significant part of the management of the assets of the Greek State has been transferred to the Hellenic Company of Participants and Property. Its direct subsidiary is the Public Property Assurance Fund, TIADED and the Demilitarisation Unit, Mobile Value Management and Operational Planning Fund that monitors all elements. Already, the EMS has produced tangible results. Indicatively, its profits increased in 2019, the second half of 2018, from EUR 13,1 million to EUR 57,2 million, while the consolidated net profits of the SIPS and its portfolio companies, used in 2019, reached EUR 191,7 million against losses in 2018, with an improvement in the size of almost all companies, among them and many DECN. In conclusion, I would like to say that the 2021 budget is the best road map to win the war, so that we can all get out of the crisis together stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u199	The reason for this is the special rapporteur for SYRIZA - the Progressive Alliance, Mrs Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u200	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the 2021 budget today, which is inconsistent with the deep triple health, economic and social crisis that we are facing, but above all is inconsistent, as is the policies of the Government of New Democracy, with the great problems and needs of the Greek society and the Greek people. The Minister, Mr Staikoras, is not in the Chamber, but I have noted some information to mention to him in relation to his intervention. First of all, he told us that in spring, when he made the optimistic forecasts of the progress of the economy and the recession, that is how things seemed, as he said, that was climate and that everyone in Europe was forced to revise their assessments. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to remind you that from this step in April, when legislative acts began, we had warned in time. We then told you that the policy you are doing, the forecasts you are doing are inconsistent, that in a time of crisis there is the need to support demand, support public intervention in the economy, support small and medium-sized enterprises and work just so that the recession does not get worse, so that there is an obstacle to what seemed to be coming. After all, these were the messages from all over Europe and America. But what did you say to us then and what did Mr. Stavros say? That we were in danger. That's what he was telling us. He said we're destructive. Of course, now that we see the results of your policies, he says: “What happens? All over Europe, these are the results.' But it's not like that. They are concrete options, which led to the depth of the recession, both through the reassurance and by the strategic choices the New Democracy Government had. With regard to unemployment, Mr Stakoras said he was very pleased with it. I would like to know, because the Greek people are anxious to talk today about how much one can be content with the results of a policy, when at the moment, as we see with the OAED data, we have a hundred thousand more unemployed. With the current information system 'ERGAN', for the November figures, we have the worst nine months in employment since 2013. Is this a reason to say that unemployment and employment policy are positive? Of course, as our general rapporteur has pointed out, without taking into account this invisible world of unemployment, which is out of the system at the moment. In fact, again with today's data published by ELSTAT for the month of September, it calculates fifty-two thousand five hundred ninety-eight unemployed who are not seen are out of the system. They don't even look for work and they don't count on the system. It also referred to reductions in income. This information provided by EUROSTAT and by our parliamentary representative, Mr Tsakalotos, with concrete elements and arguments, is what we are living for, is what we receive from around us. We have seen the middle-stages constantly lose income and we have seen thousands of invisible workers - whether from culture, seasonal or tourism - who have a problem of survival and have no support on the part of the government. For this reason and in EUROSTAT, as Mr Tsakalots said, it is clear that the third worst position has been calculated, having regard to the measures taken in the first phase of the pandemic. That's the reality. Of course, let us not just stick to EUROSTAT. Let's see the elements of the Institute of Labour of the GSEE. So what's he telling us? That today one out of three employees is paid the minimum wage, that 85% of workers paid the minimum wage with too much difficulty can cope with the basic needs of their family and household. And the most shocking element, which is an element for the pandemic period, is that 31% of workers are paid under the minimum wage. That's the reality. They're paid for 200 euros. How, then, are you saying that with what we are saying, we are just making opposition to the opposition and is not the reality that the majority of the Greek people are living today? But you have followed another policy. You did not accept the reason we told you from April onwards. We presented concrete proposals with "We Stay Upright I" and "We Stay Upright II", and Alexis Tsipras here urged you to take measures, support with forward measures, with unrefundable aid to small and medium-sized enterprises. And now what do we see, because you are just another logic, a reasonable restructuring of the economy, and whoever survives? The powerful, of course, will also survive strong economic interests. We see that GSEW is now coming out, that the chambers are coming out, and they tell you that one out of three companies will not open after the lockdown. In fact, the Chamber of Commerce said that by the spring of the year a hundred and fifty thousand small and medium-sized enterprises will be closed, with all that that means to both the economy and the labour market. But there, where you have exploited and exploited the pandemic in order to pass on the obsessions of your neoliberal policy, it is the place of work. Besides, in this area, the firing began much earlier. From the pre-election commitment, which is one of the few things Mr Mitsotakis is doing on a work router, we saw immediately after the election one in one of the arrangements, which the SYRIZA government has restored after leaving the memoranda. Of course, when the pandemic began, from March onwards, the deregulation of both the labour market and the employment relations and the rights of workers began. You have chosen instead of supporting wages, demand and work, to subsidise unemployment. You have chosen to go to swampwork and wage cuts. We saw teleworking being imposed at the moment on 50% of the workforce without an institutional framework, while Mr Brutsi has been telling us that there is an institutional framework. Of course you don't. You do not bring it now that the need is and that half the workforce is on teleworking. In fact, in the Pissaridis report and, Mr Poutlakas, in the proposal, in the directions, which you have presented to the European Commission, you mention teleworking as a flexible form of work. And, of course, we have seen the first of these, which is, of course, - if you like - the precursor to what is coming, for those workers who are forced into quarantine in the middle of a pandemic, which is at least a matter of sick leave, for them to be forced by an amendment that came in September to do compulsory unpaid overtime. Of course these are scenes from the future. In this difficult December you give the workers the gift of Christmas. While we have told you that you have the possibility, you have the budgetary means to cover it fully on the basis of nominal wages, to support small and medium-sized enterprises as well. You only give a minimum of 54 million support for the minimum guaranteed income when the SYRIZA government in the most difficult memorial periods gave a dividend of over 700 million and you also support - and you do well, you cannot say 'no' - in 30 thousand long-term unemployed. The question, however, is: Are the remaining seven hundred forty thousand long-term unemployed registered in the OAED invisible to you? They are invisible, as are all the others I mentioned earlier, who are in this displacement between work, despair and unemployment. Specifically, forty thousand should be supported after the pressure exerted by SYRIZA, the Anti-Policy and the world of culture to get even these 534 euros, but ultimately with the record that opened in the Ministry of Culture with barely if the eighteen thousand have been taken. But what is the reality of the 2021 budget? The obsession with the same policy. No support for small and medium-sized enterprises and work has been recorded, and it is clear that we are entering in a few days' time into 2021 under very unfavourable health, economic and social conditions. In addition, you tell us in the budget that two are the major reforms that you will bring, of course, on the line of the Pissaridis project and the proposal you have put to the Recovery Fund. The first major reform is the change in work. This means a complete dismantling of working hours, the introduction of unpaid overtime, the complete abolition of the basic trade union rights and freedoms of N.1264/1982, which is a democratic conquest of post-multition. Of course, what we have read in the Pissaridis report means a low minimum wage, because only then can competitiveness and productivity be supported - and without any discussion of collective bargaining - which will also define it as a committee of experts which the Minister will obviously define, and not even legislation, because it cynically says the Pissaridis report - so that we know what is the background of the 2021 budget and what comes to us - that legislation favours weak and that is not productive. Of course, the second major reform is the privatisation of subsidiary insurance, which you have already put into the proposals from the Recovery Fund, but without saying in the budget, neither is the cost nor who will pay it. You're just writing it. We have heard Mr Tsakloglu say that he does not know what the cost is, that he expects the studies. However, he knew that Mr Tsakloglu would be paid by the dividend of growth and by the state budget, i.e. the burden on taxpayers, the insured, workers, young people, precariously, resources from development should go to support society, the economy, the regions and green transformation to support this counter-reformation. Of course, in the air and Mr Brutsi's statements with the change last February, which told us that insurance is now sustainable by 2070. The result in the Pissaridis report and in Mr Tsakloglu's statements that the system has a reciprocity problem means that the first line of your priority is to strike low pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this budget is also unsocial and is inconsistent with the needs of the Greek society today. It's a period of turning into society. People are fighting. It must not turn to social introvertism and individualism, where you want to push it. We believe that another way is both feasible and necessary and with our proposals we will give hope to a new progressive social alliance in the world of work, the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship of young people, the productive forces of the country. Because this is the moment really, and these proposals will also bring you to the Recovery Fund, but also to the future of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u201	The special rapporteur from the Movement of Change, Mr Michael Katrinis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today, on a difficult day for Hellenism, we are discussing a budget which, for the first time in recent years, has been raised before its vote, indicative of the lack of credibility of the government's financial staff, but also of the government itself. On page 138 of the explanatory statement, ‘EUR zero’ is entered in the code of the repayable advance of 2021 when the next stage of the return is announced at the beginning of January 2021 by the Minister of Finance. I submit to the minutes and the code and relevant publications. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If, in fact, this cycle is concentrating on the interest of the fourth cycle of November, it is a question of whether they will finally get over one and a half billion out of just three billion with which the government thinks it will face all the financial consequences of the coronary in 2021. All this, despite the fact that thanks to the European Central Bank's PEPP programme, which will reach EUR 1,85 trillion by March 2022, the Greek State can borrow at no cost and, indeed, at a negative interest rate. It is a real paper budget budget, built only to pass a management image on the markets and rating houses and based on uncertain assumptions, such as that they will incur 3.9 billion in total from the Recovery Fund, while it is certain that the first and only disbursement for 2021 will take place after the first six months, with a possible absorption of 3 billion. Secondly, that the economic consequences of the pandemic will end at the end of April and that rapid growth will immediately begin. In fact, total interventions for the coronary fall to half, at EUR 6.5 billion in 2021 of EUR 13.3 billion in 2020. Third of the budget is that revenue from tourism will reach 60% of the 2019 receipts, when air transport is difficult to normalise. In fact, as soon as the country's central airport, Athens International Airport, passed SOS without having received support so far from the Government. It is a budget that says that it will receive 3.5 billion more revenue from last year, which will, in fact, result from the smaller revenues declared over the past twenty years, with reduced tax rates and the dues of the third quarter to exceed EUR 2 billion. The Government, of course, celebrates the additional 90 million received from the CRL. Also, the overall expenditure shortfall for 2020 exceeds EUR 10 billion and is the largest in recent years, including the years of the memorandum. At the same time, overdue public debts are increasing. The Government has set up a broad plan of action in October 2019, with the aim of minimising the government’s outstanding debts now we are discussing. The truth is that since 1,326 December 2019 they were launched at 1,699 in September 2020. Unknown how much they'll close at the end of the year. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a real heart knife budget for people on the market, since it is initially 8.25 billion, now with the transfer of traffic charges, EUR 9.35 billion in the first two months of 2021, more than the corresponding two months of last year. Also, EUR zero for the special purpose compensation of enterprises with a government mandate, EUR zero from TIPS II and the Guarantee Fund, EUR zero for employers' contributions, EUR zero for scientists. Normally the payment of the tax deposit of 1.6 billion. Myon was last year. No suspension of liability payments to IAS and insurance funds. No discount on municipal fees. I put forward the table of many zeros, so that the government can see them, and the entrepreneurs and professionals can know. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, it provides for the implementation of the bankruptcy code from 1 January 2021 to the top reform of the government of Mr Mitsotakis, when in France and the rest of Europe they are taking steps to avoid massive bankruptcy. Small businesses did not see the color of money in 2020, after only 2.4% of the money from the liquidity instruments, with bank loans directed to large companies, as the recent study by the Bank of Greece confirms. Moreover, access to bank funding and high borrowing rate remain the most important problems of Greek businesses, despite the fact that banks have raised EUR 40 billion in liquidity from the European Central Bank and have increased deposits of 11 billion since the start of the crisis. The banks close the roundabouts, as, as indicated in the explanatory statement to the budget, they estimate that the economic situation will deteriorate, consumption will decline and unemployment will rise. All of this, while the government expects unemployment to fall in 2021, which, of course, disguises the market, since, in a recent study of ManpowerGROUP, 74% of the employers expect to maintain the existing situation, at least for the first quarter of the new year, in terms of work. So what is it waiting for the people of the market after 1 May 2021? The old obligations of the first quarantine. The obligations of the second quarantine, with the suspensions that will total EUR 1.57 billion, current payments and, of course, the deletion of bank instalments. How will people pay all these obligations? At the same time, in Europe, the debate on haircuts has started, especially when they are consistent and they are paying their obligations in time. Let's see if this conversation is mature enough to finally take place in our country. For workers and the unemployed, things are not better than the budget: EUR zero for seasonally employed in tourism, EUR zero for unemployment benefits for long-term unemployed. Minimum contributions from the OAED, which in 2020 paid EUR 932 million to combat unemployment due to COVID -19. Minimum for 2021. Just 10% of the money needed to extend unemployment benefits and just 25% of those paid for special purpose compensation. I am also tabling the table on workers. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All this with the market being closed - unknown when it will open and when it will be smoothed - and with the workers in full insecurity whether they will be able to continue and have their jobs with the same wages. For farmers and farmers, both in my home country of Elias and throughout the countryside, things are even worse: EUR zero from the Mitsotakis Government for compensation for their products in 2021. I'm filing the relevant table. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, they are waiting for the damages to be paid for 2020, but also for 258 million euros less than the ELGA and OPEKEPE balance. At the same time, no provision by the government for farmers and farmers, for the people of the primary sector, for the suspension of credit, tax and insurance obligations. In processing, while in Germany and the other European countries we have had an increase in orders, Greece has seen the fastest decline in the responsible procurement ratio in the processing since May 1999. So back we went. For the social state, a concept that is incompatible with New Democracy, the forecasts are not the best: EUR 100 million less for sickness benefits from the EEAS and EUR 367 million less for the support of the EEAS, EUR 392 million less for COVID -19. You are planning to continue a programme of support for teaching, Minister, but in schools they are still waiting for the teachers of the two phases of parallel support, with thousands of children staying behind in their education. And you haven't done anything in all these months. In the tourism sector, new tour schools are being set up in Corfu, Rhodes in Crete, but not in Ancient Olympia, but in which the "MICROSOT" will invest. Ladies and gentlemen, the government may not do well in the figures, but many in this Chamber will say that it is making reforms and changing the country. It is, though, isn't it? Greece is 156th in ninety countries at ease of business, according to the World Bank's annual report, under Somalia, Cambodia and Uganda. It is, of course, the last of all, among the OECD countries in the relevant indicator. I'll testify the painting. Greece is 27th in the twenty-eight countries of the European Union in terms of digital maturity and digital transformation, according to the BSE survey, while still pending - listen - a hundred twenty ministerial decisions of the Digital Governance Code. I'll testify to that painting. Only 3% of businesses in Greece make use of artificial intelligence solutions, compared with 45% worldwide, according to a BSE study. I'll testify to that painting. While only one in eight enterprises is classified in the advanced digital preparedness stage, according to the IAEA's electronic commerce laboratory. I will testify to the relevant investigation. And all this, while a significant part of economic activity is being transferred to the digital world. In fact, on the basis of this, you also took the current decision that you exclude a large part of small retailers, since the searches at the 'GOOGLE' for e-commerce increased 30% for the period of the first quarantine in our country. What else does the budget we are discussing provide for? It provides for a 23% investment recovery for 2021, when in the first quarter of 2020, before koruna, there was a 43% reduction compared to the last quarter of 2019. While based on OECD figures, foreign direct investment in Greece accounts for only 16% of GDP and 60% of GDP in the eurozone. I would even like to mention that the strategic investor of the Scaramaga shipyards, announced by Mr Mitsotakis in his speech at the PPC, today tabled a proposal for the acquisition of the Scaramaga shipyards for just EUR 15 million. This is the strategic investor that Mr. Mitsotakis promised! For property owners, a big lie. It says that the Government will reduce property tax in 2021 when objective and commercial values are harmonised and will be included for the first time over four thousand areas in the system, with price evacuation in the province and in the people's regions of Attica and with EUR 160 million in addition to being paid out of the declared squares. The new red loans touch 10 billion, the private debt to the banks 100 billion, with the servicers not being part of the loan suspension scheme. For borrowers, it is estimated that only 15% of GFCF grants will be for red borrowers. Are all the rest of them biscuits, or are they just not income, gentlemen of the government? What do you think? All of these are expected to be seized and auctioned with the opening of the courts. Where was Mr Mitsotakis' commitment to suspending auctions - I will present it - one month before Parliament? Will it be regulated in the House, or will it be behind the joint ministerial rulings of the courts? The bright exception to this year's budget is payments for the equipment programmes that appear to be increased by EUR 2 billion, which justifies the stance of the Change Movement in the last year's budget. Ladies and gentlemen, the government supports the budget that we are debating that the health crisis has prevented the development prospects at the end of 2019. Did Mr. Stakoras understand that on 9 February when he told "SPIEGEL" that the Greek economy would be moving at a growth rate of 2.8%, saying that the difficult times have passed? I'll submit it to the Minutes. It is the same intuition that led him two months ago to say that we will have growth of 7.5% in 2021, but that he will budget for this year 100 million for the administration of the vaccine, because he was obviously persuaded by the Prime Minister that 40% will have been vaccinated by the end of the year. Today Mr Mitsotakis said he hoped that the vaccine would be approved on 30 December. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude, Mr President, and thank you for the tolerance - the government has been unsuccessful for several months in seeking an unsuccessful balance between the functioning of the economy on the one hand and the protection of human life on the other. We are discussing a budget that predicts that we will soon return to economic normality when it is evident to everyone that the Greek economy will come seriously injured by the crisis. In order to save the economy, gentlemen of the government, it is essential that people be saved. The government does not understand that, and that is why its budget will fail against the citizens. In spite of the comitology of the government and Mr Mitsotakis at the end of 'vincit omnia veritas'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u203	We are completing the cycle of positioning the general and special rapporteurs with the special rapporteur for the New Democracy, Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis. Mr. Tsavdaridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in unprecedented pandemic conditions, but in the light of health redemption, the New Democracy Government is now bringing to the vote the budget of 2021. It is a budget which, on the one hand, contains measures that will strengthen our society and economy in the new year and, on the other, makes the financial, investment and labour market a reality for the gradual return of Greece to normal conditions and for sustainable development, without demanding austerity measures. A development that will come from a state that supports healthy entrepreneurship, educational innovation, fair tax and insurance, but also stable labour relations, as the New Democracy Government sees it and is already doing so. A state that, with a weapon of serious reforms, which even in the pandemic era, has never been interrupted, as has also been underlined in the eighth enhanced surveillance report, will open up new optimistic recovery prospects for the Greek people. After all, this recovery is not only announced by the government, but it is seen mainly by the international markets that give our economy a vote of confidence, through the historically low yields for the titles of all duration. A recovery which guarantees the absorption of the EUR 32 billion of the European funds for the recovery mechanism, whose contribution is expected to reach 2021 to 2.1% of GDP. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are debating in fact has to deal with the uncertain horizon of the end of the health crisis, which forces every serious government in the world to adjust the quality targeting of the forecasts and of its actions accordingly. This self-evident review, however, has unfortunately not been made by the Qualified Opposition, which has come to blame the Government for unreliability because - he says - changed the predictions in relation to the preliminary draft budget. The Civic Opposition, however, has deliberately changed, because after the draft was tabled on 16 October, the Ministry of Finance was informed by ELSTAT for the first time the downward revision of the level of GDP for the period 2015-2018 means, in order for the world to understand us, that the period of governance SYRIZA left Greece with EUR 5 billion less wealth than the one formally announced by the SYRIZA Government in 2018. The Civic Opposition also takes into account that the forecasts have changed, because the second biggest wave of pandemic and the need to take new restrictive measures have created significant macroeconomic effects, which will also be carried over to 2021. And do not cause, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, speaking of credibility, you who did not execute a single budget based on the forecasts you voted on from 2015 to 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 budget is a budget for the rational, prudent and qualitative utilization of each euro, a budget that catches the thread from the strong support package for the year 2020, 8% of GDP, when the corresponding budgetary measures in the rest of Europe reached 4% of GDP and lifts the same impediment to the major economic deadlocks of the affected citizens and businesses and in 2021. It is a budget that, in addition to tackling the health and economic crisis, has as main priorities support for vulnerable social groups by increasing the paid allowances from the OPCF, strengthening the Armed Forces by increasing expenditure by EUR 2.5 billion in 2021, strengthening education through the recruitment of permanent teachers. And while the major problems of the crisis call for maximum social confrontation and political converging, the Protestant Opposition chooses a reason deeply divisive and a stop-by-step. On the one hand, it accuses us of wasting funds from the "cushion" of liquidity to support households and entrepreneurship, and on the other hand it accounts for us giving supposedly crumbs, demanding that all cash be used up ahead without any programming. And, of course, recently, they have put in their mouths and the caramel of the allegedly criminal inertia of the government for the financial support of citizens and the timely enhancement of public health. So let's see who's talking about this and who's talking it to. You say it, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, to a government that since March 2020, with the appearance of the pandemic, designed and implemented sixty-two groups of measures to support society and the economy of around EUR 32 billion, measures that SYRIZA has certainly voted against in Parliament when we introduced them. You say it, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, to a government that strengthened the National Health System at approximately EUR 800 million in 2020, which created a thousand two hundred ICUs, when, in the days of SYRIZA, it was only five hundred, which increased the staff of the National Health System to over 100 000 workers, when, over the days of SYRIZA, they were not more than eighty thousand. You tell a government that has strengthened - and will continue in 2021 to strengthen - the liquidity of businesses both with the repayable advance, through which EUR 5.2 billion has been made available to businesses to date, as well as with the programme for the provision of loans, working capital from TPIX II, through which more than EUR 5.3 billion has been allocated to date. You say this to a government that has supported employment by nails and teeth, permanent and seasonal as well as by the unemployed. Half a billion has been committed to special-purpose allowances in our country and another 1.5 billion euros has been paid as a special-purpose allowance for its employees. Only in the Prefecture of Imathia - my place of origin - more than EUR 40 million was granted to over six thousand three hundred beneficiaries through the repayable advance, about EUR 52 million as loans through TPIX II, about EUR 5.5 million for the region's businesses as special purpose allowances and about EUR 9 million in equivalent allowances to the workers of Imathia, money that was deep breathtaking for the real economy in the region in times of difficulty. You say this to a government that reduced in 2020 a series of taxes and social security contributions, which will certainly also apply in the coming years. You are also talking about it in a government which, like the second half of 2019, and 2020, but also in 2021, does not provide for a new tax on the budget. And who do you say that? You who, without pandemic in 2018, added twenty-nine new taxes, brought EUR 10 billion new austerity measures and proceeded to seventeen pension cuts. SYRIZA chooses to characterise the 2021 budget as a monument to social analgesia, a budget of which the positive actions for 2021 relate, among other things, to: the suspension of payment of the special contribution of solidarity to the private sector at a cost of EUR 767 million, the cover of insurance contributions from the State budget for the recruitment of unemployed persons and the grant of EUR 200 for the recruitment of long-term unemployed under the programme for the creation of 100 thousands of new jobs at a cost of EUR 322 million, which SYRIZA again has not voted for. They also concern the grant with the "GEOFHYRA" instalment of the first home for borrowers affected by the pandemic at a cost of EUR 280 million, the extension of the reduction of VAT and the suspension of charges to various categories of goods and services affected by the pandemic until April 2021, at a total cost of EUR 113 million, and the promotion of the OTA repayment programme of approximately EUR 116 million, which will give a breath and stimulate the self-sufficiency and social policy of the municipalities of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA chooses to blame the New Democracy Government for neoliberal obsessions. Obviously, he considers neoliberal obsession to ensure the development prospects of our agri-food sector thanks to the 19 billion that the New Democracy Government has secured to the world of primary production for the 2021-2027 programming period. This is EUR 19 billion 'hot' Community money for actions to assist in the integrated development of rural areas, while the SYRIZA Eurogroup in the European Parliament opposed the whole proposal of the European Commission for the new CAP. The New Democracy, in addition, has effectively demonstrated its support for the country's agri-foodstuffs sector, approving exceptional financial support of up to EUR 7 000 to the COVID farmers affected, giving extensions to the payment of the insurance contributions to the ELGA, including to the CARs all the productive branches for the receipt of exceptional allowances, speeding up ELGA and OPEKEPE payments, speeding up the activation procedures for the financial instruments of the Ministry of Finance to support the implementation of investment projects in the primary sector, but also bringing to the House an amendment to the full, 100% financial compensation for the losses suffered by the country's producers from 'Januan', which SYRIZA refused to vote on. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has chosen a budget that is realistic, social law, entirely reformative and highly pro-investing, because it is a government that responsiblely designs the future and implements the interests of its country and its citizens. In a persuasive sense of criticism and the total absence of opposition, he chooses to leave SYRIZA in his policy misery and to focus, in essence, on producing reliable proposals and solutions for Greece of the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u205	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S2-commons.u206	With the agreement of the House at 0.24' the meeting is closed for today, Saturday, December 12, 2020 at 9.30', on the subject of the work of the House: legislative work, continuation of the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2021", according to the agenda distributed.
