ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum: "Structure of the Agreement on the headquarters between the Hellenic Republic and the European Asylum Support Office (EAASO) on the operation of the EASO Operational Office in Greece". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, only those who objected to the ratification of this agreement. If there is any objection, of course, to this House - we have said so many times, not to repeat it - it is the highest body, it can change it and so on. If there is any objection, we shall apply paragraph 4 of Article 108.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, our rapporteur has not come...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u3	Parliamentary representatives will be speaking. Of course, once the parties' leaders have spoken, the parliamentary representatives will not speak. All the parliamentary representatives, the rapporteurs and Members of Parliament will speak against.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u5	Let me finish, Mr. Vitsa. New Democracy, SYRIZA and the Change Movement have voted for the bill, during the Communist Party of Greece, the Greek Solution and the Mera25, and so are the MPs who object. Does the House agree after what we have said, in accordance with Rule 108? As far as I can see, this House agrees. He couldn't agree to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u7	Here you go, Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u8	Excuse me, Mr President, but how can the House not disagree? First of all, you say that it is Article 112, which says about Article 108. Firstly, there is a question of whether this is an international convention. It is a Greek state contract with a Service of the European Union, which is one and the main. Secondly, to go to Rule 108, you must have a decision and, indeed, a unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents, which does not exist. The third, however, and the essential thing, in order to be okay with this, is that the Minister in the debate in committee said: 'Okay, of course, we can discuss this -'for this particular agreement, which SYRIZA and the New Democracy want it - I do not know if there is anyone who disagrees with it, perhaps the JRC etc. - and to broaden the conversation...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u9	Yes, there is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u10	Anyway, there's a majority, let me say it like that. The main issue is that the debate can be extended and take part for a five-minute period - as laid down in the Rules of Procedure - and the Members who want to do so, of course, on the basis of the agreement we have made at the Conference of Presidents on how many Members can speak, so? And this deal we've made is up to forty-one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u11	Listen, then, to get in touch. We'll give a clarification. We will see whether this is a contract, to have a similar application of Article 28 of the Constitution, etc. It is a simple agreement, which comes under the procedure laid down in Article 108, as many years have come. We will therefore not deprive any of the Members who have chosen the parties, the parliamentary representatives, the parties' leaders and the rapporteurs. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u12	All right, open up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u13	Parliament decides that, and we apply Rule 108(4) and (5).
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u14	We don't disagree with what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u15	So Mr. Tsigris has the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u16	The MPs won't talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u17	Members will speak from every party opposed. He'll talk to everyone. Is that right, Mr. Vitsa? How do we do it? The rapporteurs will also speak. It's a deal, it's not a contract. You'll see there won't be a matter, they'll be exhausted...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u19	But I want to talk? Can I speak? That's my question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, what article does this procedure provide for? Can you tell us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u21	Minister, have you asked for the floor? Here, we're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u22	I think I will make it easier for this procedural debate simply to remind the House of the common perception and conclusion of the debate in committee. As you say, this is a debate on the ratification of an agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the European Asylum Service with regard to its seat here. However, since the opposition parties - and I will add correctly - were considered to be an opportunity to have a wider debate on the international aspect of immigration, which Parliament did not have the opportunity to discuss in earlier relevant debates on immigration, they accepted this proposal. In fact, I asked the Bureau of Parliament to take this common view into account, so that we can have a debate today which will allow for the flexibility needed and the ratification of the procedure provided for, but also to have a broader debate. I sincerely tell you, Mr President, that this debate is necessary and it is an opportunity to take place today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u23	The Minister is excellent!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u24	I am therefore in your hands and at your disposal and in the possibilities provided by the Rules of Procedure, in order to achieve this double objective: and to discuss ratification of the agreement, but also to extend the debate on a crucial issue for the country and its immigration policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u25	Mr Vitsa, you will remember that the Conference of Presidents has repeatedly said that, as long as the Coronovirus lasts, the parties will be proposing Members and no registration will take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u26	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u27	Wait a minute, Mr. Janakopoulos. He has not proposed any parties. Of course, as I said at the outset, it says the Rules of Procedure for the Vice-Presidents and they have appointed their parties who will be the Parliamentary Representatives and the others. So there is no problem. What can we do? Take the floor from one of your colleagues to speak. What can we say now? We'll say the same thing. This thing has been decided with agreement from all parties. We're wasting time, Mr. Vitsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, I do not want to make it difficult. I'll agree. You can confirm by a call to the SYRIZA Secretariat that yesterday I went to the secretariat on this matter and to the Party Secretariat said what you said, but wrongly - you did not say it wrongly - that the article is in force and that if they want to speak to Members, they are registered to speak with Mr Psychoyos and the suspected, anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u29	As you know, the parties send a list of speakers and they're registered. I do not have any speaker proposed by the parties here. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, the party is Mr Janakopoulos as Parliamentary Representative and Mrs Anagnostopoulou as rapporteur. It's not the party services. We are going to say the same thing again, like the Member who said to me, 'to keep the order that the services say.' Hey, presiding the services to finish! They should come and talk to the services. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u31	Now we're having a theoretical conversation, but you know very well that it's limited...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u32	Theoretically, if they'll talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u33	She and the parties are sending a list. That's the way it always happens. And this agreement at the Conference of Presidents between all the parties was to be made without...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, I do not understand now why, for two speakers, in fact, more than I can see - I do not know what may happen - we are making such a fuss. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u35	We'll see how the conversation goes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u37	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u38	SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Mr Janakopoulos has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u39	I do not want to comment on what the Conference of Presidents decided, nor on what moves were made at service and service level yesterday. At the moment we have a very clear position of the Minister, who says that it is appropriate to broaden the discussion. The question can be solved very easily with a simple demonstration of flexibility on the part of the Bureau: to submit the political parties - if they so desire - now in the Bureau - during the introductions - a list of two more speakers in order to be able to discuss the issue throughout the range, which I think is necessary, in that we really did not have the possibility - and I fully agree with Mr Koumoutsako - to highlight the international aspects of immigration throughout the previous period. Mr President, I do not understand why you are insisting on a meticulous, in any case, way in which the process has been carried out at the moment of the previous period of enormous flexibility and flexibility in the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, so that the needs arising from the pandemic can be met. Show corresponding flexibility in a treaty that the opposition is asking you, in agreement with the government position, to have two or three more speakers. It is not so dreadful, nor do I think that the process will be brought to an end through a demonstration of such flexibility on the part of the Bureau. It's simple. From there on, I don't understand why you insist.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Janakopoulou, I said what was going on and what was the deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u41	What deal? We don't have a deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u42	At first, in Mr Vitsa's first speech, I said that we will see and that if one, two to speak, the world is not lost. But I said what is predictable. And SYRIZA and New Democracy and all other parties didn't bring us a list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u43	What meticulousism is that, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u45	Let us move on and see, because we are wasting time for no reason. Let us move on and see how the debate goes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u48	Here, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u49	As a movement of change we want to place ourselves. We have no objection to the procedure that you say, Mr President, nor, of course, will we insist. The question, however, is, Mr Janakopoulos, why you did not raise this issue in the Conference of Presidents. In other words, the other parties are surprised, and this and on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the House, we should...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u50	No party has been surprised.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u51	...at the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u52	We've been telling this thing for three months. Your party should have brought us a list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u53	This was also the case in SYRIZA, Mr. Janakopoulos, but the other parties are also surprised at the moment. To know and to have one class. To know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u55	Didn't we agree? We said we'd see how we're going...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u57	Mrs. Ignastopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, because I was in committee - and the Minister said so - the chairman of the committee, Mr Charakopoulos, committed himself to the end of the committee's work - because the Minister also accepted it - to extend the debate because ratification is an opportunity to discuss it. He pledged that he would take it to the President of Parliament. It didn't happen? But that is not the responsibility of the parties. We were here. It's registered in the minutes of the House. You can see it. Now, if two, five more Members of Parliament are asking for the floor, that is wrong by the chairman of the committee, and the Minister himself, as he said now, had consented.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u59	I said at first there would be a tolerance. Why, then, do we repeat? The rapporteur for the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, I have been asking for the floor for some time now. Are you ignoring us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u61	Mrs Manolakou, you're right. I'm sorry. I'm not ignoring anyone, and you know it very well. I simply said, at the edge of the speech, that the rapporteur in the New Democracy should take the floor. I will gladly give you the floor, but do not say that I am ignoring you. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, we want to confirm what the Minister said and what the honourable Members said. We agreed to open the debate, both with the Minister and with the parties. That is why the Minister has also sent us notes in particular with regard to the developments in the European Union. It's in the Minutes. You can consult them. You can also ask the chairman of the committee, Mr Charakopoulos. If you wish, we thought that this has been decided, so on today's plenary agenda, it writes 'draft law' and then 'declaration', so it 'opens' a process as if a bill was being discussed and not a ratification. That is what I wanted to say to you and we are asking to go through this procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u63	Mrs Manolakou, we do not disagree with what you are saying, except that none of this has been recorded in the minutes of the conference. None of the parties said anything. The introductory document, which comes to the Bureau, says nothing and, in any case...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u64	Does the Conference of Presidents commit Parliament's plenary?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u65	Let me finish, Mr. Janakopoulos. No party sent speakers. However, since the first intervention by the Vice-President, Mr Vitsa, I said there would be a tolerance for one, two people. The world isn't lost. But what does this debate need? I said what the Rules of Procedure say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u67	The President of the Greek Solution Mr Velopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, we have had a half hour. If I were in my business, I'd have fired people now! We had a half hour, and we didn't agree. If what you said is true, those who object. Isn't that what you said at the beginning? So the JRC's gonna talk, us and Mera25. If the other thing you say is true, we start at the beginning. But say what's wrong. I do not understand what is the case, Mr President. I say, therefore, that if you want to apply what you said and the Rules of Procedure, they speak of those who object and end history. If that's not the case, we're all going together. But make up your mind. I think the half-hour we've been eating now was unnecessarily reason and cause. They'd have spoken five, six.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u69	I think I made it clear. Mr. Bougas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, I think that your position was correct, given, of course, the will of the government. The Minister is present and he told us what the will of the government is. I shall refer to what was said in the committee and confirm what my colleagues have said. It was decided that the debate would be general, so that as many colleagues as possible could take the floor in order to give the international aspects of the immigration issue. That is why, on the New Democracy side, we are proposing - without, of course, being abused - that the rapporteurs, the parliamentary representatives and, in the context of the enlargement of the debate be defined, of course, as the Bureau is responsible for the enlargement. Because you have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u71	What is being done exposes the functioning of the House. But we say here, but at the Conference of Presidents...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u72	At the Conference of Presidents...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u73	We're exposed! In total, we are exposing ourselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u74	Madam President, the Conference of Presidents has decided to hold an enlarged debate. The Bureau will therefore set the limit for the enlargement of the debate so that no one will be deprived of the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u75	There must be better coordination! Now it's a mess. But the Minister says, but the conference, but the President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Gregoriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, I too would like to speak. I haven't spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Gregoriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, I shall speak very little. Look, we have to respect it and if it is not up to us to put the conditions from the outset. The services of this House have informed us yesterday that, while we disagree, we will only have reason to speak as a parliamentary representative and Mrs Bakadima as a special buyer. We exceptionally accept that the parliamentary representative and the SYRIZA rapporteur should speak, since we are not anti-democratic, but if other Members enter, there is a question of parity and parity. We have no more Members here to speak. We are the two of us, because Parliament's services have told us that we only have the right to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u80	It's a travesty.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u82	That's enough, Mr. Vitsa. I'll see you now. I understand that. Let me just say something. First of all, you must know that the Bureau and not just the President-in-Office now, but all the Presidents have a tolerance and flexibility in the discussions. No one ever cut colleagues, no one ever ruled out. I said what the Rules of Procedure say. I was not in committee because I am chairing now. And I have not seen any documents from the parties that have proposed an extended debate with the submission of a list of Members. However, we have said from the outset, there will be a tolerance to speak. It's not the point of two coming in. Because if we go in proportion, they can't go two to all the parties. They must be notified and there must be a proportionality. However, one or two MPs from each party, if they need to speak, will speak. We've lost half an hour to say the same thing. We will not discuss this again. Mr Tsigris has the floor as rapporteur for the New Democracy. The five-minute time will be strictly respected today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me first and foremost to begin by wishing all the candidates, Greeks and Greeks a success, who are taking part in the exams and the next days in the pan-Hellenic exams and, of course, in their homes, in their families, who have a difficult time and support for their children. Thousands of families are in this worries right now, and it is good that we all fight to tell them that from the Greek Parliament we are sending our best wishes to succeed. It's not the first one, it won't be the last chance they have in life. The most important thing is that they don't put it down and defend themselves with nails and teeth their dreams, because they're the ones that will make them stay young forever. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a very important bill today, which essentially shows the internationalisation of a major problem for Greece, Southeast Europe, Europe, all over the world. Immigration and refugee is the most important problem facing the European Union today. So today we are debating the ratification of the agreement on the seating between the Hellenic Republic and the European Asylum Support Office, for the operation of its operational office in Greece, something very important. This organisation is now fully integrated into the European structure, having legal personality has administrative and financial autonomy and autonomy. The main purpose of this service is to facilitate practical cooperation between the Member States in the implementation of the common European asylum system, but at the same time it contributes substantially to the area of operational support from the most pressing Member States. Our country is under the greatest pressure along with Cyprus, Malta and Italy. But first and foremost Greece. This draft law is essentially in line with the basic prerogatives and immunities of the institutional international entities. In other words, the basic rules of international law on the establishment of a seat are being harmonized. In particular, the draft law provides judicial immunity, ensures the inviolability of buildings and archives, tax and customs exemptions and ensures freedom of communication. Nothing more and nothing more than what applies to all international organisations. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill also comes at a very important time. The next time, in the summer, Europe is discussing the new Migration and Asylum Pact. It is a great opportunity to integrate European immigration policy. Finally, Europe, the European family, the European Union can acquire a common immigration and refugee policy, a common asylum policy. With the new asylum policy adopted by the government, we take the first step. Greece has the opportunity through this agreement to benefit, it will receive a very large European dividend in the forthcoming European negotiations on immigration and asylum. By voting on this agreement, the negotiating power of our country is increasing. Greece has already demonstrated that it can manage the migration flows properly, and effectively protect the European Union's external borders. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, is the five minutes you give very little to the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u84	It's five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u85	So I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is almost drowning us. In three years' time in the European Union some two million asylum applications have been filed. Within less than seven years, from June 2013 to February 2020, Greece accepted approximately three hundred thousand asylum applications. The European Asylum Support Office will help to better deal with these applications. It currently has five hundred and fifty-eight staff. By the end of the year it will be more than a thousand percent. It is therefore being created in our country, a European agency, which can help effectively and give solutions to the huge problem that we are facing. The refugee issue is a matter, which concerns the protection of human rights, human dignity, the basic principles of the rule of law in relation to its international obligations. Greece has shown that it can defend its national borders, can give citizens pride again, by adopting an effective asylum policy that will be inherited in the next generation and will be a convincing response to the suffocating problem of the time. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u86	Mrs Anagnostopoulou, because we have delayed a little, the Rules of Procedure say that the rapporteurs and the special speakers are being exhausted first. There's a problem with the President of the Greek Solution. With your tolerance, can the rapporteurs precede this?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u87	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much. The President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to thank my colleagues for their tolerance. I would like to start with something very unpleasant, which no one - I imagine - was not informed, you did not want to be informed, but it was done today. I read the statement by the Greek Prime Minister from Israel: "We will always pursue peace, while respecting international law and applying it, as when we signed an EEZ with Italy, a few days ago". Mr Mitsotakis told Israel today. So this in my mind is interpreted as leaving gaps to the Greek EEZ in other areas. Because in Italy we have left the influence of the intersectional islands and the strofed islands outside of EEZ. I'm not talking about fishing, I'm talking about the French overseas islands. It is a criminal error and only as a statement from the Greek Prime Minister who prejudges the evolution that comes. And the evolution that comes, I imagine, based on his statement, we will do the same thing and apply the same thing as in the Ionian Sea, it will be applied in the Aegean Sea or in Kastelorizo. I'm sorry, I'm sad, but repeated mistakes are not a coincidence, but they're symptoms of a predetermined national crime coming. I also state the Prime Minister's statement in the Minutes. I didn't really expect it. I thought it could change course, but it doesn't change the course as it turns out and the course is to take the national topics on the rocks. After the deliberate issue which has been resolved but not corrected by the New Democracy, SYRIZA has resolved it anti-nationally, in our view and I will say that they have committed a crime with the shameful agreement, we are now going to Greek-Turkish. Now we're going to EASO. I have heard the rapporteur, the man of goodwill, that EASO will resolve all the issues. We found the ace with EASO! That is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. Europe has left us alone. Again this morning they came to Lesvos, but seventy. Who are we mocking in here? And most importantly, we've been closed down on the north border and not left alone, we're closing up the north border, we're gathering people, on the other hand, we're going to be in stores of souls and downstated - if you want - poor people - you want - yes - but among them there are many who want to do other jobs and I'm going to say them below. I am going to the subject of the European Union. It does not accept that Greece is not the first host country. Europe does not accept that. It gives us a typified financial support and it shuts us down, but it doesn't really help us, it doesn't have an army, it doesn't have a police force to guard Greece's borders, since they are common borders. He did not impose sentences on Turkey, no sentences, for not complying with the agreement with Turkey in 2016, not a single sentence. Instead, he's giving her money. She's still talking about joining her. He talks about a barbaric regime of fascist, Nazi Erdogan, he talks with this barbaric regime, the world-slave and world-slave slaughterer on all aspects, from Africa, Syria and anywhere, with the Kurds and anywhere, Europe talks with this Nazi, the authoritarian, the slaughterer of people. It's unbelievable! She continues to finance funds, in white and her own contribution, of the New Democracy, Turkey. It continues to finance non-governmental organisations, which are slave trades. Not all of them, but a lot of them are slave trades and you're not shutting them down. I say it in the New Democracy. You still have the record. You came here to tell us what? That this EASO will save Greece? It grants the country, which in 2018 just spent $19 billion on defensive expenditure. It gives Europe money to Turkey, when Turkey grants, pays $19 billion each year for defence spending. And when we say defensive, they're aggressive. Libya does not defend itself. In Syria, he doesn't defend himself. In our Aegean, it doesn't make defense. Kastelorizo doesn't do defense. It makes aggressive moves and our Europeans give them money. The Italians, now that we're talking, do common high school with the Turks today and yesterday. They're doing common war exercises. What Europe do you say to me, Minister? What is this notorious Europe? Show me, too. Italy provides EUR billion of weapons systems to Turkey. So is Germany. What Europe are you talking about? Who are you kidding? In other words, this Europe does not exist. It's in your mind. It's a fantastic situation. I'm beginning to wonder if we need a doctor. It's either I don't see well, or you don't see it right. Something's wrong in here, and I can say more. Did your friend Germany not exclude us from Berlin for the conversation with Libya, and now we have a grey south of Crete? Why did they shut us down? Your friends, the Germans, yours! It pays sums to non-governmental organisations in Europe without any control. There's no control. Instead of preventing it, FRONTEX became a tow truck to bring them to Greece. He's going, he's taking them, and he's bringing them. He cuts them - you know who you are from village - on the tractor up, puts the towel and draws the trailer from behind. That's what they do. They're transporting them to Greece. He's normally disembarking them. Europe does not agree with the principle of 'push back', which is allowed internationally for certain reasons, in accordance with Article 33 of the Convention. Your Europe, your Europe, German Europe, has never asked Turkey. Because with Europe we are all but not with German Europe. Because I am European too, and I want to be European, but first I am Greek. So Europe is serious about talking about Europe. But when Europe is German, then the resistance is close and we must resist German Europe. To make the Europe of nations, states and peoples. This thing can't be done. It also did not ask Turkey to set up pre-regulatory centres and structures there. He never demanded it. She consults her "do it" and Ertogan uses human souls as a lever. He's using people on Evros, Lesvos, Chios, anywhere. Guys, ready-to-be mothers, uses them as Trojan horses. That's the reality. And tell you what you did with your bill. In April 2020, twelve minor children were taken to Luxembourg by our European friends. On 18 April 2020 50 minors in Germany. In Austria, they gave us containers - they didn't take anyone - to put the children there. To understand, whether you're working here in New Democracy, or you don't know what's going on with you, or you're passing us for idiots. There's nothing else. I'm telling you, honestly. If you think this is a Europe and a plan, you are wrong, a pitiful mistake. Go to the areas where there are structures. The bill says Greece will manage the problem. So we're not going to eliminate the problem. We'll handle the problem. That's what your bill says, problem-management, not problem-solving. The agreement provides for commitments and obligations for Greece, privileges and immunities in committee. Who is this committee? Who appoints her? What is this committee? Will he be the village's Velegacas? Is he going to be the lead, the cocktail? Can the Ministry not do it or give the keys to the state, as Mrs Benaki said in the past, Greece, that we will grant dominance to various organisations and various other strange, non-governmental organisations? Turns out he was right. We've been talking since. And you know, because I want to close, and soon, because time is pressing too, so listen, ladies and gentlemen, on 1 July the auctioning of property begins. With the new real crime that is being committed, what brings the bill to “DENMARK”, give 25,000 euros to every illegal immigrant who has not even received asylum, are asylum seekers, give him twenty-five grand, Mr Kumucako. You tell Pakistani, Afghan, Algerian, Moroccan, "Come on, we give twenty-five thousand extra allowances". It exists in the bill on “DENMARKING”. Look at it. Can I get it for you? Mr. Kumucaco, may I present this to you? Can I tell you what the bill says? 'Illegal trafficking in human beings, refugees and asylum seekers pending examination of the asylum request, people with cultural peculiarities are entitled to EUR 25,000, together with small and medium-sized enterprises'. Get the bill to give it to the Minister to read it, 'cause the ministries don't read each other's. Give you twenty-five grand. It's the bill for small and medium-sized enterprises that go through the window and that. That's what we're telling you. Change the bill. Tell the Prime Minister to abolish this. Why would you give him twenty - five grand of this man?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u90	Put it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u91	I'll give it to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u92	This is what you invoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u93	From DENMARK. I don't have it with me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u94	Submit to the Minutes what you invoke, what you read.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u95	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u97	I close, saying this, because I don't like the Minister's style. Listen, Minister, when you privately told me, you personally told me that you would finish the matter, you were smuggled with the illegal immigrants and you came here and suggestions to me, you are wrong. Don't go on a personal level. You're going out, you loser. And I don't do personal attacks. I'm stopping here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u98	What personal attack?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u99	Let's get to the bottom of it, and I'm closing here. You gave citizenship. Did I give citizenship? You gave citizenship to law. Come on, let's not escalate above, because you're going to expose yourself too much, and I don't want to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u100	Don't threaten me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u101	I'm not threatening you. I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u102	Don't even warn me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u103	I'm not threatening anyone. I don't even do personal attacks to anyone. But your style "send it in the Minutes", you don't talk to any children. First, you're not allowed to interrupt someone. Do you understand that? You're not allowed to interrupt anyone who's here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u104	You missed a minute now and it's at the expense of colleagues. Please conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u105	I close as follows: In Denmark, there is an investigation into Lockdown by prosecutors at the expense of the Prime Minister of Denmark. I would like to see the irreparable damage suffered by our country, who will pay for it. How about you? Because we've done huge damage to the economy. And since I'm a businessman, I'm neither a diplomat nor a civil servant nor a state employee, let me tell you this: 87% the turnover down the last month. From 82% last month, 87% now. Are you gonna pay my employees either the Prime Minister or the 500 euros that fooled the world? Five hundred employees, three hundred or two hundred of the companies are not paid. You got it. You committed crimes, big crimes. And one more crime is what you did with the walk. What Mr Bakoyannis has done is not called a 'big walk'. How did you allow him, Minister? Hell is Athens. This is called the "Greek Golgot". Tell me whose real idea it was. Germany did this because I know Germany well, in a particular town, in Oberhausen, with two hundred thousand inhabitants. Designed and constructed, license plates of taxi, drivers, parking perimeter, public service transport, store compensation for one and a half years of operation. What exactly did Mr. Bakoyannis do? She came out one morning, saw a dream, imagined hiking and made it. Where do we live? It's not a state planning, it's a salt. The world is suffering, there's incredible hustle, traffic congestion. The city of Athens is not yours in German cities, plains, but it has constantly gradients. Let's see him ride!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u106	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u107	Excuse me, Mr. President. And I close with 'LARCO'. Stop in New Democracy to denounce "LARCO" to put your trolls and all these journalists who get three, five grand ads, say they keep taking 44 grand. You've found three, four, ten of them, and you've made them stylists of your politics, of the sale. And because I learn that behind the story is an offshore company, since the Minister wants practically, I have the newspaper's publication, 'the company that is discussing with the government, officially discusses the government or behind the scenes with offshore companies to sell 'LARCO'. It is the Global Special Opportunities taxed by the Bahamas and is also in Panama Papers. In addition, the newspaper 'Republic', I'll testify to it. And by closing, let me tell you something very simple. When Mitaris, Minister, tells you "Today someone tells them to go to Viktoria Square", these poor people who camped there, someone tells them. Do you understand? Someone. Isn't there a state? They went camping, set up tents, put up a bunch of things. Someone told them to go there. But isn't there a state? Someone tells them they have priority at the hospital to go for free. Someone tells them how to steal and get in jail. Someone tells him they have only rights and not obligations. Someone, somewhere, once, don't do politics. I had a lot to say, but because you want in the Minutes, I'm going to present this document to you from the EEA. Uninsecured immigrants: EOPY paid 15,000 euros, free of charge, to a hospital for a particular medicine. The Greek pays 14, 15 grand, but the Greek goes to pay the hospital, Minister. If he doesn't have insurance, he pays everything. Understand? That's not a serious policy. I don't want to say anything else, because you're liked to me, not anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u108	Calm down, please. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mrs Anagnostopoulou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in committee we said that, on the occasion of the ratification of an international organisation such as EASO, we will extend the debate on the issue of immigration and refugee and, in fact, we will give the international dimensions. The Minister, as promised, sent us correspondence with the European Union, with various countries together, etc. We have talked about this in committee. It is a supportive body for the asylum procedure. So what is chosen in the debate is what kind of policy, at European level, we will have with the new regulation - even if it is done - for the asylum and immigration process. That is the crucial question. We have seen that, since the New Democracy took over the country's governance, so far as we speak and are growing up, we are seeing a counter-refugee policy. This is inconsistent with most of the documents signed by the Minister, so far - and it matters - which are sent to Europe, calling for a change in the immigration and asylum policy process. That is where we find out most of the time, and indeed with countries of southern Europe, Spain, Italy, Malta, Cyprus, Greece, that it is on the line opened by SYRIZA and where the tripartite was European policy, diplomacy and management within the refugee - migrant, in accordance with the principles of the international law of the European Charter of Human Rights and Geneva on Asylum. So while we see that we have some documents in this direction - and for which we agree, because we have started this policy since 2015 and had results, it has had serious results, without resolving the whole phenomenon, because I also told the committee the refugee - immigration is not a problem, but it is a phenomenon and it will take years, and that is why it wants European and international policy - on the one hand we see a counter-refugee rhetoric that was launched in elections - we will end with this issue, because SYRIZA is making Greece pulsory, etc. - on the other hand, you do - and when you become government - a completely counter-refugee policy with the results we see, that is to say, flying people who have taken asylum on the road. And in order not to hear much, this money, which we, as a government, have achieved for housing, the focus of these people, is European funds, as well as the 'ESTIA' programme and the 'PHILOXENIA' programme and the 'ILIOS' programme. In order not to hear things that we take them from the poor Greeks and give them to those who come from abroad. While accession is a very important issue, you have deprived people from AMKA, from the inter-educational educational process, and now you throw them out, without a safety net so they can find their footprints and survive. These are out of every principle that our country respects and invokes every opportunity. And I'm coming to the critical, and I'm not going to be late, Mr. President. While sending such letters at European level, a letter on a flexibility and exclusion clause suddenly comes. Minister, this is where I knock on the alarm. What does our country mean to ask within the texts not if an event occurs at some point, as happened in Evros in February and to ask exceptionally - and we cannot, because we have seen that Mr Mitsotakis in 'CN' immediately took the suspension of asylum applications, neither can we, because our country is committed and is in favour of international authorities and values, because its survival depends on it - you come and ask for a clause of flexibility and a derogation, and that is within the texts. It means nationalisation of the refugee - immigration. Greece is taking the matter on board, it is drafted with these countries asking for a derogation and for a diversion. I have seen through the UN, Mr Minister, which countries are calling for flexibility. In addition to the Visegrad countries, other flexibilities have been added. Our country is going with these countries? It breaks the southern alliance, for it is no coincidence that this text is signed by Greece, Cyprus and Bulgaria and does not sign it by Spain, Portugal, Italy and Malta. That means something. So we are nationalising the issue and saying that we are at the border if we are under pressure. What can we do, Minister? Shall we do push back? You have seen the complaints we have constantly received from both the International Organisation for Migration and from the UN and everyone. I didn't see any of you get out and disprove these complaints. So, and we are nationalising the issue, and on behalf of Europe, by closing the eye on some people, that we will be across Turkey if it works, as the refugee - immigration, as it did in February, and we will be forced to do exactly what? This is where the Greek Government must give an explanation. We're going to a very dangerous pervert. We'll pay for that. Flexibility and derogations from International Law our country must never allow them and must not ally with these countries. If we wanted the debate to take place at an even wider level, Mr Kumucako, to see which of the institutions of Europe are calling for this flexibility and derogation. A conversation there needs. However, we can see that the policy of a number of Commissioners is far from the point of view of Mr Avramopoulos before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u110	Thank you. The reason is now the special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr. George Kamine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we must say that it is very positive that this agreement with the European Asylum Support Office is being ratified in Parliament. It has helped a great deal, it will help even more now and the Independent Appeals Committees by carrying out debts, its members, rapporteurs and ensuring secretarial support. Its members will rise from five hundred to one thousand. We were going to discuss developments at European level today, but I cannot stand indifferent to what has been unfolding over the last few days in Athens and for which we have warned. We had told Mr Mitarakis that if he rushed to bring refugees from the islands to Athens any more, without having taken care of their shelter, there would be a problem. The answer was that eventually the recognised refugees staying in the apartments will give up their position to the asylum seekers who are brought from the islands. The result was seen. There's people on the road right now. We have lived this in Athens on a much larger scale and I assure you that we have then made huge efforts to be able to house all these people, whom it is not that someone was driving them. There cannot always be someone who leads them to the SYRIZA government again, someone who leads them to the Government of New Democracy and constantly see theories of conspiracy where it is that we are living the consequences of a complete absence of method and programming. Don't try to blame some invisible ones. The same happened with the Asylum Service crowds. Mr Mitaris told us on television that while they could handle their applications electronically they would come to ask themselves. What was he expecting, though? When the form is electronic only in English or in English hopes that all these people will be able to serve in this way? With their reasonable insecurity, they will be asked themselves. That's what everyone would do. It would be good to take a look at the report of the European Court of Auditors for 2019, because it makes us a review of the relocation issues. It was agreed in 2016 that in the three years 2016-2018 a hundred and sixty thousand foreigners would be relocated from the entry countries of Greece - Italy to other European countries. Eventually in 2019, the report is that thirty - four thousand people were relocated, that is, under and under the fourth percent. This is a warning bell that is based on data over time. At the moment we have an unexplained, welcome, of course, at the moment, abstention of Turkey from pushing people into the Aegean. We have no guarantee that this will continue. We also have people to whom the refugee status is recognised. There is no concern about how these people will live in Greece without resources, in a country in a deep economic crisis that awaits it as deep as possible, if not deeper, without knowing Greek, without being able to go to other European countries, except with temporary visas. We also have people whose application for asylum is rejected. We know very well that they cannot be returned to Turkey and those who do not come from there cannot be deported. I simply close with the return and relocation data for 2019. Overall, it was a little more than four thousand people who were either deported or returned in 2019. Do we know that 80% of them were Albanian nationals who had come from Albania? Do we know that the overwhelming proportion of those who had entered Turkey was ultimately not returned? That's what I think he should tell us enough. If there is no clear, organised methodological forecast for what will happen in the field of at least the integration of asylum seekers, I fear that, because in a visible future, we will not be able to manage the problem of returns and expulsions, we will find ourselves in front of very unpleasant surprises. And this time we won't be able to confront some unknown third parties. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr. Kamin. The reason is now the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. On the occasion of the debate on the ratification of the Convention on the Functioning of the European Committee on Asylum in the country, issues relating to the European Union's attitude to the treatment and management of refugees have, of course, been raised at the heart of the debate, as well as the debate on the new common European asylum system. Of course, today's procedure is far from what we agreed in committee, and it is not possible in the five-minute time of placement to cover all these issues of the European aspects that need to be raised at the heart of the debate. First of all, as regards the contract itself, we have also been put to the committee, why should a number of privileges be granted, such as exemption from taxes, VAT, etc., immunities, such as the immunity of staff from other Member States of the European Union to work in the Office of the European Asylum Support Office, corresponding to those applicable to diplomatic staff? But that would really be the minimum in relation to the main issue that should be concerned about what policy EASO has come to implement in Greece. What is being attempted on the part of the government, as SYRIZA did in previous years, and many still do, is to build the profile of European solidarity. As an expression of European solidarity, EASO is present in Greece, as you say about FRONTEX or the incidents in Evros. Solidarity to be exhausted in the declarations on the common European borders, which are being closed in order to keep thousands of refugees and immigrants locked in our country. The implementation of this policy is therefore coming to ensure that the European Committee on Asylum, as well as the European Union's mechanisms with their presence in the country, the absolute application of the Dublin Regulation, the agreement of the European Union with Turkey, which, in all tonnes, you say you want to continue, the European policy that is maintained in full, and despite whatever make-up does not change its substance, but rather worsen, because, contrary to what you have presented as an achievement of the debate on the creation of a common European asylum policy, it and today, it is the country that condemns the country to become a prison for refugees. As a result of this policy, thousands of refugees and immigrants remain, despite the great words, trapped in the islands and this caging you are committing to the European Union institutions that you will continue. It is this European solidarity that is being depleted in giving some caging funds for applicants for international protection, which stop when these people take the asylum and then come the Greek governments to throw them on the road, as the New Democracy now does, which legislated the expulsion of refugees from the apartments and structures one month after the acquisition of the asylum after, of course, a similar provision of SYRIZA with only difference that instead of a month, SYRIZA flew them out after six months. All this at a time when no measures have been taken to integrate refugees into society, to teach the Greek language, to integrate them into work on the basis of their qualifications and professional experience. You are presenting this picture in order to gold out the pill to the islands that you are progressing towards decongestion of the islands, but even for their own process of movement there is no provision for it to be organized in such a way that there is no further problem than is supposed to be solved at the end of the day. Did we also point out in the debate in the committee the images of families of refugees who sleep where they find around the port of Mytilini in order to ensure a place on the line to go where? They left Moria's paradise to be transported homeless without any prospect in Viktoria Square. Didn't you know that this hopeless situation would be created when there's massively left over so many thousands of people without real help? From the documents that the Minister has given us for the government's actions on internationalisation, as you say, of the refugee who we have studied very carefully, of course, we have already been following developments through our parliamentary group and our party's criticisms and criticisms. That is to say, it is confirmed how unpopular, but also deadlocked, the policy of increasing repression and violation of the rights of refugees and asylum seekers, the implementation of the policies of the European Union, where it is known that the interests of the strongest countries are prevailing on the refugee issue, with the culmination of this European Union agreement with Turkey. Of course, the policy of involving refugee immigrants in the geopolitical struggles is deadlocked and dangerous, especially with Turkey, in parallel with the ever-increased participation in imperialist interventions and missions that are the cause of the continuing drama of millions of outraged people. You are talking about the work of refugee immigration by the Turkish Government, which is right, but you forget to say that the Greek Government itself yesterday invaded SYRIZA and today the New Democracy have agreed and contributed to this work both with the agreement of the European Union with Turkey, but also recently with the bazaar of the Greek Government with the Turkish Government that they will actually agree on Turkey's new invasion of Syria as long as the Turkish Government stops promoting refugees and immigrants in Greece and then sell fairy tales to the Greek people that allegedly such games within the European Union and NATO can guarantee the protection of the country's sovereign rights. At the same time, you are baptising all asylum seekers so that you can rally asylum applications and then imprison them under return procedures. In fact, you are also attempting to legalise the flexibility clause or to derogate from asylum procedures even for those who are undoubtedly part of the rightful international protection. But you are disgusting even these EASO elements, since the first two nationalities that applied for asylum in the first two months of 2020 were Syrians and Afghans, and it is, of course, unrealistic to consider Afghans as immigrants when their country after decades of imperialist intervention and occupation continues to be a battlefield. The previous SYRIZA policy was in the same direction, of course. But even if we were to accept this unacceptable filtering which is being carried out at the expense of even the existing needs for international protection, can the plan presented by the Government for mass returns and deportations actually be implemented? You know very well and you hide from the Greek people that this is not possible when even the powerful countries, such as Germany only 1/3 of the deportation decisions manage to implement. You are also even better aware of the delusions you have tried to create that the European Union will not change the question of the equal distribution of refugees to the Member States, which is why it is now being presented as an alternative to the alliance of some only willing Member States. Considering how the solidarity of the European Union was expressed in the 2015 relocation programme, which, from the sixty thousand it showed that it would ultimately accept only twenty thousand refugees or from the widely advertised both from the European Union and from the Greek Government relocations of the six hundred unaccompanied minors who were finally converted into a sample mission of so many people who lived in a photograph with the Prime Minister, we understand very well that this story also has a great dragon. The dragon in all fairy tales remains the same, and he is nothing more than the bolt of the European Union, which despite the friendly blows to the back and the credit for the preservation of the European borders, is nothing but the falsification and conversion of our country into a modern camp for the concentration of refugees and migrants. If the European Union's policy on EASO was its solidarity with Greece and respect for the rights of refugees, then why not settle within the Turkish territory on the border with Greece and at the border with Syria so that asylum applications can be examined and transferred to their countries of destination without the seas being smuggled by wars and poverty? You know that there is not just a solution, but not even an effective management of the problem without abolishing the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, without conflicting with Dublin and all the reactionary framework of the European Union. As long as these are maintained, the inhuman icons and consequences of caging will be preserved, not only in the islands, but also throughout the country, which you have decided to fill with concentration camps and homeless desperate people. In this sense of the total rejection of the policy of the European Union and the Greek governments on asylum, we are also voting against the EASO Convention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonios Mylonakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a communication to this House. The Standing Committee on Social Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "Following the Social Security Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Arab Republic of Egypt and its Administrative Rules of Application". Mr. Mylonakis, special speaker of the Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression of following the government from the first day we started here in Parliament that you have no contact with society anymore. You've been riding a reed and I'm very afraid that when you fall out of this reed, you will be heard of a strong fringe. You're not listening to anyone at all. He said the President of the Greek Solution a moment ago about the statement made by the Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, now that he is on a visit to Israel with Mr Netanyahu. It was a statement that reveals the government's intention, when the time comes to sign, to delimit the partial most exclusive economic zone with Egypt, unfortunately it seems that Kastelorizo will remain outside. I don't think that's how it's gonna happen. I think I'm wrong. But I fear that once again there will be a large national crime. The other, the great achievement of Mr. Kostas Bakoyannis, how do you see it? Big walk, big story I'm talking about. While the government says "watch out, do not enter the public transport, watch out, etc., because there is a coronary, who will fall back on our head from September to early" at the same time trying to do these stupid actions, creating a big walk. The Greek doesn't need long walks. The Greek needs a job. See what happens yesterday when this issue started with the new 'SURE' programme and 'half the job, half the money'. See what's going on with hotel owners that haven't even opened and don't know what's going to happen all summer. See what happens to the world that grows every day. He's calling us to find him a job. Don't you see that? Aren't you concerned? It's none of your business! We are now coming to this strange agreement, the European Asylum Support Office, our well-known EASO since 2010. Perhaps you can tell us, Minister, why I did not understand from the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Tsigris, a serious human being, what this agency will do when he comes to Greece. What has he done to us so far, that is, since 2010, which has been based in Malta? So, if there's a business office in Athens and one in Mytilini, what would that offer? Will it dismantle the country from hundreds of thousands more or millions of illegal immigrants? Nobody knows how many people are here. I, too, will ask the chosen President of the Parliament, Mr Athanasios, who is from and voted in Mytilini. Mr. Athanasios, arbitrary mosque on foreign property denounces a resident, your co-pilot, Maria Konnaki from Mytilini, from Moria. They took her field, destroyed hundreds of olive trees. Minister, you know very well that about twenty-eight thousand were when I went to Moria. It's the highest percentage outside Moria's closed-supposedly closed. Everything's well intruded. Your Honor, have you never been to see? The woman shouts and protests. He says, "They took away my field, destroyed my olive trees and built a mosque, while I'm assigned to all services, to the police, to the Prosecutor's office." It's hers. I'll testify to the Minutes to understand and understand what's going on with this thing. No function, no instrument, nothing there? No one respects the Greek citizen? Why did we vote for and entered the House? For the Greek and Greek. They didn't vote for us to watch them trample and destroy his property and make mosques, huge mosques operating. President-in-Office, I think you've seen these things in Moria. We were also not voted to see them stabbed every little bit in Kilkis, Malakasa, and other structures for one woman's eyes, because they do not agree with religion the other and to bring out the jaws and knives. But that is not what the government is interested in. Is it interested that this Service, EASO, will do what in our homeland? He's going to be decongested and send them where? The Visegrad countries have closed the border and they have said so and said so again, the Baltic countries have now said 'we do not accept'. Where are we taking them? They come to our country every day. That's what EASO will do. It will take the package and you will say 'it is not our fault'. There is a European Asylum Support Office, rapporteur of the New Democracy, and the Government will say 'I can't do anything, it arranges for asylum'. Good, and those who are not entitled to asylum - I ask, Minister, as all parties have asked you - where are they? Have they gone? Has anyone gone? Have refunds been made to Turkey? Tell us, they came so many, we've been so many, and they've been gone since we took over the ruling ten thousand, twenty thousand, 100 thousand, one! Don't tell us a hundred and ten people and the stones are laughing! So that's what you're doing. You don't respect the Greek citizen, you put the means in it. Today - I will not say either from which party or from which channel - I heard a Member who was on a morning show and said to the presentationer: 'Don't be king of the king'. What's this stuff? Are those presenters and journalists whom you have "buckled" and have them say that what you do is good, what you do is right? This European agency should not have come to Greece. He's got nothing to do with it. Asylum you give it financial selfishness, administrative self-sufficiency. It is forbidden to enter a prosecutor's office, it speaks to the European Court of Justice. It does not say to the Greek Parliament, but to the European Parliament. It's on English law. So why does it come and what is the purpose for which it comes? Don't tell us about decongestion, because you could have been decongested too. So tell us the purpose, costs, etc. Whether to hire, Mr Tsigris, five hundred or a thousand percent, that says nothing or we are going to solve the unemployment problem by bringing this European asylum agency over to hire workers. Doing what are the workers? Greek and Greek are interested in us unless you are interested in Greek and Greek, but you are interested in illegal immigrants, seeing them in Victoria sleeping down with their children, picking them up from there to hotels, paying the Greek people and saying "we do what we can, we can't do anything more." The Greek Solution, as we told you at the first moment, did not enter here to scream either to shout or to gamble. He went out to be able to wake you, to wake sometime the government's instincts in favour of Greek and Greek. We in the first place and in the articles, except for one, are negative. We shall therefore vote against this agreement and call on you to change your mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u117	Here, Mrs Konnakas, you have the floor for a minute, and then I will say something to Mr Mylonakis, since he referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to clarify why the way the special speaker of the Greek Solution was placed was as if it were my personal complaints. He used my name and there was a confusion in the audience that it was my personal complaints. No, of course, that we don't recognize the existence...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u119	She's the owner. It's called Konnaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u120	Okay, I'd like it to be clarified. Anyway, we have no doubt that there are problems for islanders. That is why we have said from the outset that the islands should be compensated. But these problems are not solved by extremism. As long as the European Union's policy continues with which no one actually chooses to collide with it is born and continues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u121	Mr Mylonakis, since you have referred to me, I would also like to make a clarification. Indeed, there are damages that took place in the estates around the Reception and Identification Centre. It's true what you testified to. It's a newspaper party and it's done. However, I must tell you that both the municipality and, above all, the President of the Community, Mr Mastruggiannis, has repeatedly asked the municipality to correct the table with the names of the injured and the damage suffered. It has been sent to the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum. He was incomplete, returned again, corrected, and now that we're talking about the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum, he's already working on the compensation table. I therefore think it is justified that the bitterness of the lady who writes it is justified, but it was not just the responsibility of the ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u122	For another reason, I testified it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u123	Let me finish, Mr Mylonakis, and I will tell you. With regard to the second thing you said about the unlawful actions, at the initiative of the Minister for Civil Protection Mr Chrysochoidis and Mr Mitarakis, an autonomous department is created by the Police Department of Mytilini, a police department in the area that will police the wider area. And that's something that's important. As far as the issue of immigrants is concerned, I can inform you that it was more than twenty-one thousand, and today, on the basis of the morning figures, it is a little more than seventeen thousand. In other words, we had a reduction of about four thousand. It's not satisfactory yet, but it's gradually being decongested. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u124	Allow me, Mr President, for a minute. For another reason, I testified it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u125	Here, you have the floor, Mr. Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u126	I filed it because the lady in her atrocious letter says that in addition to the municipality she has been assigned to the Prosecutor's and Police, because they have destroyed hundreds of olive trees. You know very well that this property is not being replaced easily. That's the first. Secondly, it is not possible, Mr President, to build a whole mosque from the NGO. And the NGO was making fun of people around there that she was going to build a school. And that's what happened in the mosque and it works. That's why I filed the document. Where will the Greek woman get her right? Nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u127	For the mosque, the Minister will answer you. It's not my responsibility. But I can explain that the damage...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u128	As for Mrs. Konnakas, it wasn't her name.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Mylonakis, allow me. The damage the lady has suffered is not the only one. There are too many of the owners of the region who are protesting and damaged and there will be compensation. After all, on a recent visit I had made, we said that they can conduct separate actions, as you know, against the Greek public.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u130	After a hundred years, these lawsuits are going to happen!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u131	This is for anyone not satisfied, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Introductory Law of the Civil Code. They're familiar with them and we've told them. But I think soon the Ministry will settle the damage. The reason is now the Special Rapporteur of Mera25 Mr Bakadima. Here, Mrs Bakadima, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the ratification of the agreement on the operation of the EASO operational office in our country. Several colleagues in the committee have pointed out that it is a ratification of an agreement on the operation of a European agency in Greece. Those in favour of Europe should therefore support the agreement and it is not meant to vote against it. However, ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about a single technical agreement or a simple incorporation of a directive or even an office in our country. We are talking about the operating aspects of EASO in Greece, a service that is coming to implement all the anti-human policies and the workout of the modern refugee crisis. Therefore, the position of EASO is inextricably linked to the refugee and its management. In theory, the agency was established by Regulation of the European Union 439/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 May, in order to strengthen the practical cooperation of the Member States of the European Union in matters of asylum, to promote the implementation of the Common European Asylum System, the CEAS, and to support the Member States whose asylum and reception systems are subject to particular pressure. But, in fact, it is the executive body of the European Union's policies in the refugee field, a state agency in detention aimed at not helping those who arrive at the borders of Europe, but the right to the anti-humanist policies of the European Union. A more characteristic example is the involvement of the service in the fictitious European Union-Turkey Agreement. According to 2016 reports, EASO chose to hide a report against Turkey's myth as a safe third country, as a result of the coup that had taken place at the time there was political instability. It was a myth on which the joint statement itself was based. The EU-Turkey Agreement, which was negotiated by German Chancellor Merkel, had a unique purpose: to block the arrival of refugees from Turkey at all costs, even if this meant that the European Union would end up bribing the Turkish President Erdogan with many billions of euros, so that he could violate international legislation that protects refugees and continue, as he has done up to now, to subject his extortion and to make the wrong eyes to the hard-working of refugees, which he is using in his hand and in order to force the European Union. The European Asylum Service has contributed to this by concealing the report and by censoring it from March 2017, a renewed version of the text entitled "Country Information factsheet JAP Product 3.1.g - Content of Protection in Turkey". From the unreasonable extracts in paragraphs of the preliminary remarks, both texts show that researchers note: "According to various wents, there is a lack of independent surveillance in deportation centres since the beginning of the implementation of the European Union-Turkey Agreement. In this regard, the Commission notes that, in the light of the information provided by the Greek authorities, it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether it is compatible with the internal market. In the later version we have extensive reference to a UNHCR letter leaking in December 2016 in which it is also stated that it is impossible to monitor what has been done with the majority of the already returned under the agreement. So EASO, a service paid by all of us, has failed to play its part properly, concealing critical information on the situation in Turkey. This was a occult that followed the European Union-Turkey Agreement on Returns and came to complete the series of European Union counter-refugees policies, co-signed by the Greek Government and continues today, with the culmination of the creation of new closed prison structures on the islands, which trap the painful souls that come to our country on one side and our islands in an endless crisis, as they do not see any movement of decongestion, transfer of refugees to the hinterland and pressure for division in the other countries. This is not decongested by leading 11 000 refugees to eviction, just to create vacant posts, without knowing these people where they will eventually go: in squares, parks or elsewhere. Minister, our disagreement and the vote of today's bill are deeply political. While we agree with you that there should be a compulsory and fair burden sharing, as mentioned in the letter you sent to Commissioner Schroedter and Commissioner Johanson, our disagreement is how we and you see the sharing. We agree that a mandatory mechanism for relocating and sharing incoming refugees should be set up between European countries. However, the logic of our returns is politically opposed. That is why I will not go into the individual information - the information in the documents you shared from us - was extremely important when we talk about returns to countries for which we cannot have a clear picture of the situation there. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to close with a true story of one of our people, who, unfortunately, the European Union - Turkey agreement has been mentioned to lose their lives and I am very afraid he will not be the only one. I've been reporting on Sabir's story before. As a DiEM25, the transnational pan-European movement, an electoral arm of which is in Greece, Mer25, I met Sabir in 2017. Sabir was a 40-year-old Pakistani who lived in a small town in Pakistan and had a small business. In 2015 he saw a local organisation of fundamentalists Islam to set fire to a next door to his neighbors who were Christians, wanting to kill those who can, to expel others and to check the house to become a religious school. He rushed to help them, a move that made him stigmatize in the local society. His operation was burned, his brother was brutally murdered, his wife and his children were forced to flee to neighboring villages to be saved. And Sabir and his father started a voyage of hope, aiming to get through Iran and Turkey to civilised Europe. His father died on the street. Sabir finally arrived in Greece. He was rescued to a marine operation off Lesvos and transferred to Moria. A whole year after his first interview, the request for asylum was rejected and a re-enforcement order was issued. He returned to Turkey, where he died in prison. It was relaunched as a result of EASO’s selection to hide important information on the situation in Turkey in 2016. The establishment of this office in Greece is under discussion today. I will not dwell on the individual agreements to which I have referred in detail in committee, but only because of all the above, we cannot consent, only to vote against the bill under discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u133	The Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Vitsas, has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u134	Mr Minister, in your face I see the government and I would like to invite you to let humanity breathe. In less than a year since you took over from the government you have imposed, in a good partnership with the willing media, an immigrant for the management of the refugee - immigration. You have cut rights of refugees and migrants and asylum seekers, not only in asylum itself, but also in residence, health care provision, job opportunities, education, integration into society. Even worse, we see a revival of repression using MATs against refugees and immigrants, but even against Greeks. Again, we see people who have no focus to conspire in the squares of Athens and Mr Mitaraki's ridiculous reply that'some of them have sent them'. What the Minister owes is to tell them who sent them. Because my answer is that Mr. Metarakis sent them, and we have a number of complaints about illegal re-processes. Let Greek Solution the funnyness and look at Article 33 of the Geneva Treaty, which provides for two exceptions, and not just in the word'security'. It provides for the exception to be a terrorist, that is to say it is a danger to the country and the second exception is to threaten directly - and that the judicial procedure which concerns it - security and democracy in the country has been fully solved. That is what Article 33 says as exceptions. The government's policy, therefore, has deliberately led to overcrowded reception and identification centres. Oh, my God! "There were twenty-one thousand and they have been seventeen." I should like to take it as truth and answer that in 2019, from 1.1 to 30.6, they left Moria ten and a half thousand. Can't you make such a mobilization? In order to reduce accommodation places in structures and hotels you are finishing the program ‘PHILOXENIA’. Don't you understand? So where we had thirty-three thousand places in houses, twenty-five thousand and eight thousand hotels, instead of increasing and pushing and accusing the European Commission, which wants to turn into a soul store in Greece, we accept the bureaucrats who solve the problems of refugees from bars in Brussels to reduce the positions. We accept that. If that's possible! But you have only recently implemented the immunity of the herd between the refugee - migrant population, as far as the COVID -19 epidemic is concerned. You are raising tensions with local communities, precisely because of a lack of information and dialogue, about the transfer of asylum seekers to their regions. We said that we would be briefing - and informing - the local communities and moving forward, whether they were accepting or not. But we had a dialogue with them. The most famous is the letter that I sent to the Messologie Municipal Council in relation to this matter and, of course, the issue has been resolved ever since. Today they are neither informed nor discussed with them and flew among people who have just been afraid of a racist and turned the whole logic. We have made a very great effort in managing the refugee - immigration. Obviously, this management was not perfect. But we created thousands of hospitality places. We have actually introduced the Asylum Service. We have taken advantage of the feelings of solidarity between the Greek people. We have compensated the affected financially in the areas where the MFF operates on the islands. What we have always had in mind and you must also have it in your mind is that in this matter you can never be sufficient and always try for the best. We have developed the framework for cooperation with international organisations, the European Union and the international NGOs of unknown prestige, such as 'Oxfam', 'Dec', 'Caritas' and so on. And we are also honest with the people and Parliament. From here, from this Step I submitted to Parliament all the contracts signed by the Ministry of National Defence, a file that no one has ever read. But you are hiding the truth at the same time that you are being controlled for transparency in the management of funds and direct awards. You are lying, comparing your own things with data - and that is beautiful - of your own governance. I mean, compare what you're doing with yourself. Because when you say twenty-one thousand and seventeen? The twenty-one thousand were in December 2019 and December 2019, if I'm not mistaken, the Government was New Democracy. Turkey, Minister, is working on the refugee - immigration as a lever for the blackmail of economic and political exchanges from Europe. But you, at the same time as your policy, turn xenophobic feelings into part of society, allowing desperate people to be described as invaders. The right thing was your opposition or, if you want, your action in relation to the Castanes, but we do not allow any Mr. Plakatakis to come here and talk about border protection. Do you know any country called "immigration"? Do you know any country called'refugee'? Mr Plakkatakis should be guided and focused where there is a real risk rather than leaving people or creating a situation. I said it before. If the whole story is Turkey, why does it send us seventy and not send us five thousand? If you consider that to be the case, you can understand the mistake of your reasoning. I'll tell you what. When the Greek Solution asks here, in Parliament, in parliamentary control, and Mr Metarakis and Mrs Rapti very much - they say that the positions of the New Democracy and the Greek Solution are common. And I say this without insulting the Greek Members of this House. I say that this has been said here and the Greek people need to know what the New Democracy policy is. Even more, as far as the internal aspect is concerned, if we ourselves can criticise some points of our own declaration at European Union level, we cannot admit, Mr Kumucako, any of us, Greece. We are the instigators of the management of refugee immigration at three levels. We have fought with all our forces in cooperation with other countries for the effective reform of the Dublin system, so that we can achieve the so-called Dublin IV system or a common European asylum system. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Dear friends, ladies and gentlemen from Mera25, I cannot understand at all that EASO, which has no real jurisdiction, suddenly becomes the main body, which is even responsible for the joint declaration. How can the joint declaration be made in March, the coup d'état in Turkey be held in the summer and the two things linked?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u135	Complete, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u136	I shall conclude, Mr President. We would do this, clearly or undergroundly with the reaction of even strong countries within the European Union. We insisted on the principle of fair distribution of asylum seekers across all Member States, based on the principle of solidarity, international law. We have proposed a single refugee profile and a common system for examining asylum applications, refunds, registration and processing centres. We proceeded with individual bilateral agreements, particularly with Germany and Portugal, but also with other countries. We have taken advantage of the assistance of the European Commission and Mr Avramopoulos, both in finding European funds and in creating a framework for communication with Turkey, so that all aspects of the refugee - immigration issue remain outside the Greek-Turkish disputes and enter a wider European context. Together with Mr Avramopoulos, we met five times with Mr Soilou and we managed to reduce the streams by 95%.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u137	Please close, Mr President, because you have reached eleven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much for the time you have given me, Mr President. I shall conclude by saying that we have never had your own chance of a three-month window almost without any input. But there is an issue here which is an extreme example. Are you seriously asking the European Commission and the European Union to adopt what exactly? The suspension of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the Geneva Convention? Have you considered whether the committee has the power to allow this or simply, do you not care if the country is being mocked internationally? I have no other way to tell you. Serve and return to a policy of principle and results or disprove me. Say, we never asked for that. You are calling for an agreement with Cyprus and Bulgaria. And with Mr. Gerhoffen agreeing with Mr. Kurts to make a deal with Mr. Orban as well. Does that mean you're overcoming international law? Therefore, we must neither violate international law nor, of course, allow a revised and threatening Turkey to play the international, its own communication game against the interests of Greeks and asylum seekers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, for a moment, please, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u140	Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much, Mr President. In addressing you, simply because you heard Miss Greek Solution's name in the SYRIZA colleague's speech, I will say two things separately. So SYRIZA said that the New Democracy and the Greek Solution have a common position on illegal immigration.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u142	That's what you could say in your speech, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u143	You told me I had a right...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u144	But anyway. You're a parliamentary representative. You have a right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u145	It's just, when things like this sound, it's good to be cleared up. I wish, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that the New Democracy would come to ours and apply what we support. However, I do not see the New Democracy either push back or deportation to make, neither the NGOs close nor illegal immigrants move them to uninhabited islands. None of it. I see the same programme as SYRIZA, because my dear Mr President, Mr New Democracy and Mr SYRIZA are exactly the same currency! We've got the blue SYRIZA right now! Why am I saying that? I can explain that. Your problem lies in how you deal with illegal immigration and that's where you fight, in dealing with it. Our point is to resolve the issue. That's our huge difference. Another "resolve" and another "deal". And as far as what you said, the Greek Solution is funny...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u146	These are fundamental issues on this issue. Could you speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u147	But I'm answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u148	I say there's no staff to answer Mr. Vitsa. That's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u149	Please. He said to cut off the push back jokes. Let me say that this is very serious and it's not funny. Firstly, Mr President, Article 33 of the Geneva Convention says that and it is 'danger to the country' and our country is in danger. And it says for security...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u150	I'll talk to you later. I'll take your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u151	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u152	I'll take your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u153	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u154	In any case, you have half the time from what the other Members have, after your Chief spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u155	But I'm talking, because you told me I had the right to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u156	Yeah, but they don't have anything to do with it. You will speak in your main speech, where you can say these.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u157	I shall therefore reply to my main speech, and I shall say that the security of the country is directly threatened, Mr President, and if you do not find it here, on the periphery, you will go to the ground to see that the security of the country is directly threatened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much. Mrs Alexopoulou Anastasia has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, I would like to speak for five seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u160	What can you say, Mr. Vitsa?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Hetas...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u162	It was a placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Hetas got the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u164	Oh, no. As a parliamentary representative, Mr. Vitsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u165	I say, therefore, that if Mr Heitas is infected every time the name "Greek Solution" is heard, my answer is, well he does. It's good!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u166	I wasn't offended at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u167	Here, Mrs Alexopoulou, you have the floor. After the speech, the Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25, Mr Gregoriadis, has then said Mr Chrysomalis from New Democracy and we will be closing down with Mr Psychogios.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u168	I too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u169	You'll talk anyway. You're a parliamentary representative. Just tell me what time you want to talk. Here, Mrs Alexopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a draft law which is very important for our country, but also for the so-called 'European solidarity', the ratification of an agreement on the seat between the Hellenic Republic and the European Asylum Support Office and the operation of the latter's office in our country. Will you allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to ask you this: where is the famous European solidarity with Greece on the issue of illegal immigration? Can I tell you where he is? It's completely absent. They have left Greece alone in this huge subject and European solidarity goes for a walk. This is what the Greek Solution and Kyriakos Velopoulos have been telling you since the first time. And now you come cowardly - cowardly, too, to admit that we are right in our fears, that, in other words, what we have been telling you for so long, Europe has abandoned us and everyone is looking at its own interests, is ultimately not far from reality. Do you really know who they are, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple? The reality is that Greece is alone in the issue of illegal immigrants, that we accept a foreign invasion and how our national and cultural character is being altered. And that is where your own Members, from what they have heard in this Chamber, are forced to admit indirectly, even that the Greek solution has also been justified in this matter. The Greek Solution has been calling it a year ago in the House. You understood it today. Even so late! But the question here is: If you see the problem, why, at last, do you not close the borders? Why were you building more structures for a whole year than SYRIZA? You would say that you are competitioning New Democracy and SYRIZA who will leave the border opener and who will create more hot spot. Greece none of you think about it. Now let's go to the official papers. In 2019, we had thirty thousand asylum applications in Greece. In 2018, forty-nine thousand people entered Greece, in 2019 over fifty-five thousand, while in 2020 we are going for an even larger number. And we're talking about official figures, because informals will definitely be much bigger. These figures I quote to you, so that you can see the size of the pressure our country faces. Finally, let us consider what this means practically in our everyday lives. Has crime increased or has not risen sharply, ladies and gentlemen? What are the consequences for our economy and society when all these people enter and get allowances while there are so many Greek citizens without work or homelessness? Not to mention the great danger that exists, which is the Islamisation of our country, since almost all of these people are Muslims. What I'm saying is that it's not xenophobic. It's the essence of things. The Greeks have always been a hospitable people. We could not otherwise develop our tourism. The idea of welcoming Zeus was born in Greece. But to accommodate people who come legally and not smuggled. I think we all understand the difference. You say that the establishment in Greece of the European Asylum Support Office, which is the subject of the bill, will make a decisive contribution to addressing the problem. Forty-fivem euros will be the grant from Community funds for this service, and you say - sufficient instruments and human resources. But don't stay in numbers. Let us get to the bottom of the problem. And the essence is that Greece, whatever funds it can get from the Union, cannot accept an uncontrolled number of illegal immigrants, illegal immigrants or even refugees. We cannot continue to leave the border open. No asylum service is capable of integrating these people into our society, in our culture, as you would like. It's practically impossible. And we come to another important issue. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, does not have solidarity from the other Member States of the European Union. This is the bitter truth that the Greek Solution tells you so long, Kyriakos Velopoulos. This is a disgraceful situation, which is borne by the implementation of an unacceptable agreement signed by Mr Simitis with Mr Papandreou, the Dublin II Treaty, in which illegal immigrants were forced to return from European countries to the first country of entry, where, of course, the borders would almost always be our Greece. Because of this agreement signed at the time by the PASOK government, Greece became a storage area of illegal immigrants and miserable people and souls. Let me say a few words about the role of Turkey. Turkey has obviously unleashed a hybrid war against us. He uses these people who come from our territory to weaken our national defense on the Aegean islands...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u171	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u172	I shall conclude, Mr President, in just one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u173	The minute's too thin.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u174	... while preparing to clash and increase its vital space with all these amazing things he's doing around the EOZ. So be careful, both you of the government and you of SYRIZA, whether everything we say about asylum and European solidarity is just hiding the truth. And the truth is that we are accepting a new kind of war from Turkey with a peak of immigration or illegal immigration. Finally, I say: you in the New Democracy admit that we accept the greatest wave of refugees and illegal immigrants. The majority rapporteur, Mr Tsigris, said so. I wish to take this into account for the good of our country from now on in every negotiation with our European partners. However, we in the Greek Solution have pointed this out at the very first time and we are pleased that we have always been entitled to all the central findings with arguments and always with a high head for our country. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u175	Mr Gregoriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Question to ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and SYRIZA: Are they, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the New Democracy and SYRIZA, Turkey, a safe country for refugees and displaced immigrants? It's not. Of course it isn't. And we all know in here, better than me you all know, that it is not because you imagine that it is not even a safe country for its journalists or for its MPs if it happens and is of Kurdish origin. It is not a safe country for any citizen or citizen, as you prefer, simply because it is a country in which democracy has long been completely destroyed. It's a pig country. This hunger country, which was not yet completely plunged, but was at the limit, was struggling with the military dictatorship, is this country that you first and then accept, by accepting the agreement between the European Union and Turkey on the return from Greece of the unfortunate refugees and migrants, even today that it is a safe country. Why is it that smart people and people capable of accepting that it is a safe country, while we all know that they are not for any citizen in the world safe country? Because that's where we want to get rid of - I mean get rid of, I don't want a problem at all. The problem of two and a half years ago and now almost four million desperate people of all kinds from wars or hunger or because, as Mrs Bakadima said, they burned their house next door before and it was their turn after they burned their shop, they wanted to get to Europe. The reason why you are obviously unrealisticly unrealistic and I would say that this is a safe country, that it is supposedly a safe country in Turkey, is one: that you want to get rid of anyone who can go to Greece and, above all, because there is no need to stay in Greece because we have been a four-fold bankrupt country for ten years and no serious immigrant or refugee wants to stay in a country that surely dies from hunger, wants to go somewhere else - you want to return them back. So let's see what's going on with this problem. Did you get it? Did this inhumane plan at least work? It didn't work. How do we know in Mera25 it didn't work? I'll tell you one number: In 2018 we managed to relaunch three hundred and twenty-two people. We already had in Moria near the thirty thousand people. In Greece we had no one knows how many people. As a result, it didn't work. So why are you doing all this crazy, I'm sorry for the expression that I'm in this House, the absurd and the deadlocks, both of you? In order to avoid any way, such as the hell with the veto, even put a ton of veto, if you prefer veto, any veto, in any European Union procedure to do what the universal universal universal human dignity demands. To say, "Look at us not fools. Refugees throughout the European Union must be divided, because we are supposed to be a union here, not a covetous and bosses, we are not slaves and gentlemen. We are a European association already, the country that gave birth to humanism is supposed to. So because you do not want to put any veto or veto, or veto, as you have a debt and a moral, but also a survival vis-à-vis the Greek people - the Greek people will not survive as you go through it - because you do not want to veto any veto, which is why we are living all this absolute theater of total irrationality. But why do you not want to put in four and a half years, and you did not want to put any vetos, so that they finally split up as they should, in all the countries of the European Union, these two and a half million people who are conspiring at our borders? Because you want to constantly give credentials, both of them and the exemplary captives. Has the continued filing of an exemplary captive credential’s credentials have resulted in any results in the last decade? It didn't work. He brought the result to show us and laugh. Good for EASO I haven't said. I should like to say to Mr Vitsa, although he is not here now, what is the problem of Mera25 with EASO? It is a very serious problem, and we sincerely wonder why you do not have it. If you're a left-wing force, how do you have no problem with an EASO that he's doing? Two months after the inhumane, evil, one would say, an agreement that accepts Turkey as a safe destination for refugees and migrants undertakes to draw up, as the responsible body of the European Union, a report on whether Turkey is actually a safe country. This report clearly shows that it is not a safe country. And you know what EASO does two months after the deal, in June and May 2016? He's a garrison, commonly called the deal. The agreement would never have been known if OBSERVER hadn't made it by making journalistic plunder. That is why we have no good idea about EASO. Because EASO is inhumanly working within its inhuman bosses. Instead of it being what it should be, and this is a European asylum support agency, it has come to be known as a European prevention agency for any asylum. That is why, Mr Vitsa, we have a huge problem with EASO. Now we really are not going to vote. We shall vote safely 'no'. Before I go, we'll tell you we need two things. And we demand them in the name of the entire Greek people and not just the three per cent that we have been voted on. So we demand that you who are now ruling your cooperation framework with the seemingly biased, having concealed a report that would consider Turkey as an insecure country, EASO, in examining applications for international protection on the islands of the eastern Aegean. We also call for an independent European investigation to be ordered for the reasons behind the reference by EASO to Turkey and those responsible for giving the relevant concealment orders. It is obvious that things are too, too, too confused. And I will go away saying this: I am very impressed by the fact that both the Minister and the Civilian Opposition have asked for the debate to be extended. One would say that you think it's of interest to you. You are not interested in this debate. I have explained the reasons for the government that is not of interest to you. We see the results. The results are tragic. Now what? Did you dismantle Moria how? By flaming tens of thousands of people on the ground who have no roof, have no food, have no water, it is potentially an epidemiological possibility for the country and at the same time awaiting a witness fee. That's what you've achieved. As far as SYRIZA is concerned, you really need to think a little bit about your past before you ask for a debate to be extended. Remember Idiot. It means that you adopted the doctrine of Samara, dear friends. Samaras told the porters " treat the inhumans, so that they return home to tell their relatives that it is bad in Greece and not come". When you allowed ten thousand people to sink in the mud of Idomen, you adopted the doctrine of Samaras at that time. When you let Moria have twenty thousand in a place where three thousand are expected to be left, you adopted the doctrine of Samara. When you did not use any veto as governors, you adopted the doctrine of Samaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u177	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u178	Hey, you'll have the time, you'll talk. You'll come and tell me. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at five o'clock we must deliver the Chamber. Mr. Psychogeus, I think you've been covered. Talk from there for two minutes. Mr. Psychogios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much. Because they have indeed heard enough and I do not want to misuse time, to identify three points. The first is about the European dimension that we are here today, and I hope that we will be here again, because we have tabled timely questions, we have asked for a debate in this House on many occasions and unfortunately has not been accepted. We therefore expect you to have an integrated procedure rather than the current one, in which you cannot do the analysis that you need to carry out. With regard to the European level, I think that Mr Vitsats was a little stubborn in what I said, and of course Mr Gregoryiadis was unfair about what SYRIZA has been dealing with and demanding a European dimension over the past few years. And I'm becoming specific: Twenty-two thousand relocations within two and a half years to Member States of the European Union. Is that a revolution? No, and it is under the European Union's obligations. However, it is a success that has arisen through certain pressures and certain moves. About ten thousand family reunifications, which have even been made with bilateral agreements, when the other countries did not comply with their obligations, so that people can be disembodied from here. Continuous meetings with the countries of the South at the highest level with the Prime Minister himself, Mr. Tsipras and the European institutions, in order to create the connections that you are now going to claim, but in the wrong way, in my view, in the immigration agreement. Financing for many housing and integration programmes that you have not renewed in time, serving another policy. At the Council of Europe continuous interventions and pressures and resolutions on shared responsibility in all the Member States of Europe, and of course through the surveillance of Turkey, which violated rights on its territory for people who were journalists, lawyers, fellow Members and, of course, international law and a number of other interventions, with proposals, pressures on the common asylum policy, the relocation under the Marrakesh Pact agreed within the framework of the UN, which we had also intervened on legal paths, the division of responsibility, and the whole of this framework, which eventually gave rise to a certain degree, because it put the European dimension above all else. One must also make a reference to this part which we discussed before about EASO. Let us make it clear that EASO has a role to play in the asylum service, which has specific responsibilities, has an interoperable role and does not go to the essence of the cases, which are carried out by the officials of the agency. There should be recruitment - and we said this last time - through permanent posts, through the obviously reintroduction of the seventeen recently laid off contractors. We have received the asylum service with two hundred employees, and today there are a thousand two hundred to meet the needs, of course, through a policy which will not make any discounts in international and European law. Because legislating EASO is ashes in the eyes. It is an investment, a cloak of European, when you set the standard of administrative detention for up to thirty six months for all the vulnerable, when you come and dismantle the humanitarian reasons, when you legislate that there will be massive rejections of asylum claims, when you are exodusing recognised refugees and transferring them to the squares north to the circuits, but also to the coronary that you call upon and all these interventions, which is the main point of politics. EASO is a mantle which has a specific role to play and has nothing to do with policy making. I shall close, Mr President, by saying about the exception clause. In fact, you call it a flexibility clause, but it is an exception from international and European law. Our rapporteur has been mentioned. It is the country's duty to respect international and European law and it is not a card to implement. It's a powerful negotiating weapon. When you suspended asylum claims, you took it back. We have been exposed, and under no circumstances do I want to imagine that the country in this negotiation will be identified with the Visegrad countries, where we too have had a great deal of pressure on this inhumane policy, and we have never, of course, given the honour of both the men and women of the Port Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u181	Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u182	It seems, Minister, that a broader debate cannot be held in such a time. However, we will address a number of issues that are particularly topical. There is a problem with granting asylum. But if you see the crowd, hours full, it shows that yes, there is a problem because of a lack of large personnel. These people don't have a bite to sit around all these hours. Of course there was a problem before the pandemic. We know that next month is ending a series of massive contracts and we will be in the heart of summer, with all that that implies. We ask you: Have you scheduled recruitments, especially at the Asylum Service? Secondly, in recent months, workers in the Asylum Service have been forced to do - and have done - strike mobilisations, demanding - fair in our opinion - the conversion of contracts, become permanent or indefinite, without conditions and conditions. And I'm saying it makes sense, because all three hundred Greeks are permanent and seventy contractors. I mean, 70% are contractors. They can't work in services like that. Thirdly, with the first importance, the government is moving on the path set by the SYRIZANEL government and leading to the eviction from the housing structures of thousands of asylum-holders. This unacceptable measure is cut apart from the housing programme and the monthly allowance of EUR 90. It's hard, it's inhumane to torture people, uprooted. Thousands of families and children go to school, indifferent to the huge dangers of such a choice, especially within the extraordinary health conditions of the coronary. The government is obviously seeking the full marginalisation and impoverishment of refugees and immigrants, and this is why it is a profoundly reactionary move which shows that human life, dignity and security are a commodity with an end date. It brings us to mind the lyrics of Kostas Varnalis from the International for the land the broken and mass struggle that we all have to fight against and overthrow this rotten capitalist system. So you are not coming to resolve these issues, but you are putting all your hopes into the new Migration and Asylum Pact. What are his main elements? Three pillars: firstly, international agreements with third countries to combat the causes of immigration, secondly, better protected external borders of the European Union and thirdly, strong internal cohesion for immigration in the European Union, and here also includes Dublin. However, there have been no disputed issues, such as the distribution of asylum seekers to the Member States, while the first-entry criterion remains, i.e. caging. It also appears as a sovereign that solidarity will be a matter of urgency rather than of compulsoryity. But what do they mean, solidarity? More border guards should be sent to the Member State that accepts the pressure. The solidarity of the European Union is, in other words, the intensity of repression against the victims of the Imperialist wars, poverty and the exploitation of the barbaric capitalist system. Can this change the situation and especially the Turkish refugee's toolbox? We say no, because the latest developments in both the Aegean and Evros confirm once again that the policy of the European Union and NATO followed and closely followed by the Greek governments is one that is responsible, on the one hand, for the dissolution of countries and the uprooting of peoples and, on the other, for the caging of the islands and borders. This policy has opened the way to Erdogan, to haggle and enforce his own pursuits by means of a refugee vehicle. If there is now no question and conflict with this policy, with the Dublin regulation and the European Union-Turkey agreement, no repression, no hypocritical voice of sensitivity and support from the officials of the European Union, but no governmental wish for alleged solidarity from the European Union will be faced with the problem. And one more proof is the ship flying the Tanzania flag, carrying weapons systems to Libya, accompanied by three frigates of the Turkish navy. Fiasco the "Eirini" operation that participated in Greek frigates, where the order was ultimately not to attempt noose. That is why, whatever steps the Greek Government is taking, the problem will remain, once NATO promotes co-management in the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean, while Erdogan's ally, namely the Libyan government of Sarah, opens the way to illegal claims. The latest developments are extremely dangerous and confirm that, within the range of American designs that are the reference point of all Greek governments, giving other foundations instead of closing Souda "killer" there can be neither guaranteeing Greece's sovereign rights nor much more peace and prosperity for the people. Therefore, not only is there no solution, but not even an effective management of the problem, without abolishing the European Union-Turkey agreement, without conflicting with Dublin and all the reactionary framework of the European Union. That is why we are also voting against today's ratification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Mr. Heta, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. I will be very brief, I think that enough has been said. Moreover, I will be allowed to give two - three answers. We are concerned, Mr President, because we have recently been legislating more on issues relating to illegal immigrants than Greeks. That's what concerns us a little, you know. We cannot understand what this is all about. I repeat, the world can understand the alarming difference: that is how it is faced with this huge problem, a very important problem of illegal immigration, the invasion, what we lived in Evros a few months ago and all the things that will follow and then, the New Democracy Government and how SYRIZA was dealing with. We are talking about problem management here. I am deeply saddened when in the Greek Parliament, in the National Representation, I hear from representatives of the Greek people that this problem is here, it will stay here and we need to learn to live with it. I refuse that, Mr President. We deny it. We say that this problem can be solved. We say it's very difficult, he wants brave decisions, but it can be solved. Unfortunately for our country, the road chosen by the New Democracy and as it handles or manages it - which is now managed in some way, because it has passed through various relics until it ends up - is almost the same as it - management, so - SYRIZA was dealing with it. It is at least funny to say that the tactics, policies or ideas of the New Democracy with those of the Greek Solution on this matter are interrelated. I'll tell them now with a longer time, because these things have been heard earlier. We have specific proposals to deal with this issue, not now that we have arrived at ten and the problem is now gigantic, but we are talking about these from the first day and before we enter Parliament, but also in Parliament, with specific proposals. Some of them - fine, small copying, no wall, little fence - followed by New Democracy. The basics, however, are not followed by the New Democracy. And, of course, illegal immigrants are at risk for the country, of course, and we will invoke Article 33 of the Geneva Convention, of course, and the security is directly threatened, I said it before, and now I will say it and we will keep saying it wherever we are and where our voice is possible. And of course, our country is threatened with this situation and Greek citizens are threatened. If you don't see it, you're blind and you're away from society. People are yelling out and asking for our help, Minister. Our help and we need these Greek citizens to listen to them and give them the help they ask for. And after I solve that problem, then look at the illegal immigrants coming in. Because some people used to say "take them into your homes". Now we see that you rent your homes, the painkillers. It's like we're not hurting each other. We didn't say renting your homes, we said take them home. Let's talk about everything here. I shall also listen with caution to you, Mr President, and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of which I am a member, starts shortly. So you bring about a relief measure, just as you did with the coronary, for Greek citizens, for small and medium-sized enterprises - the President of the Greek Solution told you - for a small loan of EUR 25,000 not from banks but from individuals, from a contract to be concluded by both sides and you put in what I mentioned to you and the President of the Greek Solution. These refugees, asylum seekers, are inside.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u185	Mr. President, please. I'd like to talk to you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u186	You will answer, Minister, everything. I'll finish. I've got three minutes and I've been talking three minutes and forty seconds. Is it so hard to hear? We'll tell you with great interest, not for the sake of litigation or to have a show. We are concerned about these issues and are concerned about them. We are very concerned and we want you to answer that. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u187	Mrs Giannakopoulou, Parliamentary Representative from the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are in a world of challenges, a world of problems and crises. We are dealing first with the economic tsunami, the emerging, already existing economic crisis in the post-colonial period and, of course, with the need for substantial support from the Greek economy and, in particular, tourism, which accounts for 20% -25% of GDP. We have to deal with the essential steps to avoid a summer outbreak, a second outbreak, the coronary, and, of course, we also have to deal with increasing Turkish aggression and reformism. We actually see that the neighbouring country has opened up the entire Vendalia, the entire agenda of its claims by Evros, Agia Sophia, Cyprus, Libya, to its claims in the Aegean. In all of this, we also have a huge challenge to face for our country, and of course for the European Union, for immigration - refugee - and of course for Turkey's work. You know, we are discussing this draft law, ladies and gentlemen, which is one of its essences and has to do with European asylum policy. Of course, Minister, we are, first of all, positive on this agreement, but it is absolutely essential that the presence of the Agency be strengthened even further, that it continues to be supportive and, of course, to provide know-how on this major issue. The question is how, through this agency, cooperation between the countries of the European Union can be facilitated even more effectively so that we can have a real single asylum system. That's the big deal. Our homeland is at a key point, in fact it is a bridge towards Europe, which does not cease to be an oasis, a dream - if you wish - for millions of people, both for its social state and for its freedoms, if we add to all of this the adverse conditions of refugees and immigrants in their countries, you understand and understand that migration flows - refugees will continue even more. How many refugees and how many immigrants can Europe accept and how many refugees and immigrants can our country accept? The weaknesses of economic, social and cultural - if you like - the integration of all migrants have even occurred in countries that are more advanced than ours. Whatever money is given, Minister, to play this role sooner or later there will be major issues. We were all witnessing the incomprehensible event essentially of non-reservation or the vivid reception of minor refugees. Incomprehensible, reproach for the European Union and its countries. So we understand what the scale of the problems is. What, then, will happen with those countries which refuse to contribute even to a certain degree? Should there be no sanctions? Shouldn't we put even greater pressure on her? And in all of this, as I have said before, we have also been working on this issue from Turkey. Basically, we see the framework of a new hybrid war on the part of Turkey by working on these people. So the key to developments is in Europe, in Europe's role, and the main axis has to do with the compulsory and proportionate relocation of refugees to the rest of the countries. He went to implement a system in 2016 with the Juncker Commission. Unfortunately, too many European countries reacted, others hid behind these European countries and did not succeed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like one more minute, Mr President. Minister, I would like to remind you that when you received the Government, the pending asylum applications were seventy thousand and even though the refugee flows have been reduced, and even though we have a relatively quick examination of asylum claims, they have risen dramatically. Why? It's a reasonable question. Why, Minister? Because in practice no one leaves the country after the time allowed for it has elapsed and because we know very well that there are countries which on a permanent basis do not accept its nationals back. So this rapid examination does not mean much if it is not accompanied by other measures: the social integration of those who deserve it, that is, recognised refugees. And of course we have seen and will see, unfortunately, the results of your unmistakable policy with the fact that recognised refugees now have to be driven out of their homes and, on the other hand, the ones whose applications are rejected. Refugee - immigration is a leading challenge for the Greek state and, unfortunately, Minister, on the government side we do not see an integrated national strategy, we do not see a sustainable, effective, long-term plan. "Rave-tossed" is on the Ministry's side. Remove, reconstitute, remove again and'reconstitute' the Ministries. You appoint a series of coordinators, one after another, you shrink the rights of these people many times in violation of their rights. You are not dismantling the islands, but you are, unfortunately, preparing dashing centres of controlled structures on the islands. You don't even talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u189	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u190	I would like to have the time that the previous speakers have had, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u191	You said you'd need one more minute and I left you two.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u192	However, Mr President, this is a travesty of conversation and a travesty of procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u193	Your Honor, I have not interrupted you. I just told you to finish as I tell everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u194	So you are not talking, Minister, to local communities. You are serving public hospitality structures in which you are uncovered with your party executives. Is that your final state? Are these the perfect people of the New Democracy? It's as soon as it's funny. You are making direct awards of public contracts of several million euros. Didn't you blame SYRIZA's government for doing it? The same things you blamed will you do? In fact, Mr Minister, you are implementing a policy which, even if we consider it to be beginning and middle, certainly has no end. If some are judged to be entitled to stay in the country, they will find themselves in front of the questions: How will they live? How will they become part of society? How will they be able to look for work? What programmes are there in this direction? No answers. If, on the other hand, it is found that some are badly in the country, how will it be ensured that they return to the countries of origin? Even here there are clear answers. Nor do we see light from Turkey, from third countries, from the European Union. So obviously - and I close with this, Mr President - we say 'yes' to the guarding of borders without discounts, we obviously denounce Turkey for the violations it does and of course also for the violations of rights in that country, obviously we must strengthen and demand at European level common asylum policies, a new Dublin, we obviously want common relocation policies, and obviously, Minister, we want to be the protagonists and we are the co-formulators of the terms and policy, and not just the good children of Europe that we will agree with what the strong ones decide for us without us. So the operation of the operational office of the European Asylum Support Office in Greece let us try to be a lever in speeding up procedures for clearing up a very difficult landscape like what we are currently experiencing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing Wednesday 17 June 2020's topical and urgent question issue: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure). 1. The Question No 798/10-6-2020 by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the West Attica of the New Democracy Mr Athanasios Bourras to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Extension of the declaration of the Municipal Unit of the Municipality of Elefsina in an emergency." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 810/15-2020 by F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Kumunist Party of Greece Mr. Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "The damage suffered by the agricultural producers of apples and cherry trees Zagori, Puri, Makryrachi and Anlio in the Magnesia Prefecture". 3. The Question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Direct restoration of unfair cuts in the allowances and benefits of disabled people". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by MP Chania of New Democracy Mr Manousou - Konstantinos Voloudakis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "The need for the tacosy in Crete". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: ‘Prepayment to producers in May in 50% of the subsidy, by means of a cash facility of the Community Guidance and Guarantee Fund (OECD)’. Mr Dimitrios Janakopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u196	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a given fact that, about one year after the July elections, the government is in the process of numerous deadlocks and crises, for which crises have largely contributed to the inertia, omissions or deeds to create and I must say that these crises are constantly deepening. The economic crisis is at the moment threatening because of the political choices and the interventions of the government to find ourselves in a treaty to be the country with the greatest recession throughout the Eurozone if not throughout the European Union with a framework of interventions, which instead of trying to reverse the spontaneous trend of the capitalist market in a time of crisis, what do they actually do? They force this condition of deregulation and lead the wages to degradation, 20% is the reduction of wages horizontally for all Greeks and Greek workers and workers, in whichever reduction you led by your own political decision, with your own adopted law. I could say too much about how government inertia in reality rather than lead to a reduction in the recession that is already here, is not coming and is already here before the krone, before March 2020, your contributions are magnifying it instead of limiting it. Institutional crisis, huge institutional crisis, institutional degeneration, I have said this before. You are trying to present them as supposedly honorers of civil parliamentary democracy when you are daily insulting institutions, Parliament, a Constitution. Today, thankfully, the Scientific Committee of the Parliament has come to you and has made you a brake on the methods in the Preliminary Examination Committee where you wanted to turn the House into an endless court of no Ministers, of people who had nothing to do with ministerial duties, of ordinary citizens, who, as you know in the pre-examination phase, and since there has been no criminal prosecution, must have the right of the natural judge. You wanted to turn the House into a vast court and come the Scientific Council of Parliament and brake you, he said: 'Basta, it's not!' And you must answer, Mr Kumucako, because the responsibility here is collective government, it is not the responsibility of a minister, it is not the responsibility of your respective executive who manages the cases, it is the overall government and political responsibility of the New Democracy. Institutional degeneration, direct assignments, have the previous colleagues said so, but will you tell us Mr. Petsas will be bound to give us the list of money directed to the media? Where did 20 million go? Who took them? How much did everyone get? When will the Opposition and the Greek people be able to find out who was paid by the government to do everything in the mid-size of the disappearance of every opposition view, the absolute situation which reminds us of a totalitarian regime? And now, in my very minimum time, we agreed, Minister, that there would be an open debate on all sides, particularly the international aspect of the refugee question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u197	You have honored it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u198	We have not honoured this because when you are seeking to open a debate, which is crucial, at the level of five-minute placement when you know that other political issues are also on which you are responsible, then you understand that there is no possibility of a political serious dialogue going on here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will not criticise you in all areas of immigration policy. I do not have time to make detailed comments on the organisational relics, on the shortcomings, on the direct assignments, on the fact that you are moving on to redundancies of people who play a central and crucial role in the asylum service and have not explained why you are doing so. I want to raise very specific issues. Firstly, you have had seventy thousand asylum applications, indeed a large number in view of the Treaty of Refugee and Migration flows, which has existed in Europe over the last few years. What are you doing now? It hides the fact that applications for asylum that have not been examined have exceeded 100 000 and compare the situation today after two and a half months of lockdown and for the first time after years of stopping refugee flows with the situation that existed in December to say that we have done better. But, in December, you ruled, you took the seventy thousand applications in July and made them 100 thousand in December, we didn't do it. So do not compare to the previous December, compared to what was the situation when you took over as government on 7 July. The attempt to mislead Parliament and the citizens also has a limit. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Secondly, what is the situation on the islands today? I'll just take Lesvos. At the moment, while on 7 July there were five and a half thousand people in Moria, on the island there are about nineteen thousand people, sixteen thousand two hundred in Moria and two and two and a half thousand outside the reception centre. How did this create a situation? Who created it? Did we create her? And what are you now supposed to do to move on to disarmament policy? Do evictions without any care about where these people who fly outside the reception centres and apartments will go. Mr. Vitsas told you earlier that you have reduced the available apartments and hotel facilities where people who have entered refugee protection status could be hosted and you create yourself another crisis, because you understand that not taking care of the people you fly out of either the reception centres or the apartments creates ghettos, creates the situations that we have seen in the center of Athens in the previous days. And as if this were not enough when it was put on the Athens Municipal Council, Mr. Koumoutsakos, a matter for the municipality to take initiatives to take care of these people, whom you flew outside their homes and outside the areas where they were hosted, Mr. Bakoyannis goes and votes along with Mr. Cassidyri against the proposal, which was fortunately passed on to the Municipal Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Janakopoulou, finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u200	And then you wonder why we tell you you have common...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u201	Do not forget that two Members have spoken to you for seventeen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u202	There were parliamentary representatives and others who spoke twelve, thirteen, fourteen minutes. You may not like what I am saying, Mr President, but let me say it, because the Minister has told me that I am not supposed to go into the debate on immigration.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u203	I inform you that over nine minutes no one has spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u204	Okay. I would therefore like to say, Mr President, that Mr Kumoucasos has previously invoked me. So does Mr Koumoutsakos agree with the fact that Mr Bakoyannis is concerned about caring for people who were thrown out of their homes and voted with Mr Cassidyris at the Athens City Council? Then don't ask yourself why we identify your political positions and positions with the Greek Solution. Now we are going to have another clarification that Mr Kumoucasos has to give us. You sent a letter to Mrs Johanson and to Mr Symphony to the Commissioners. What does that letter say? He's talking about an exception clause. What exactly do you want to be excluded from? You are entitled to an answer here at the National Representation. Do you want us to be excluded from the obligation not to push backs? Is that what you're asking? Or do you want us to be excluded from the obligation to accept the asylum applications made? Do you want to suspend asylum? Do you want to suspend the Geneva Convention? Do you want to suspend the ECHR? What exactly do you want? You need to clarify these issues, because you know, Mr Kumucaco, Greece, for reasons relating to both its foreign policy and foreign policy dogma, should not even discuss the possibility of exception clauses under international law, and even under international law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Janakopoulos, please. You've reached eleven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u206	It is unacceptable and creates huge problems as a whole in our foreign policy and you have a huge responsibility to explain. I would also like to say a few things, in conclusion, in relation to what Mr Gregoriades invoked as regards the EU-Turkey Agreement, which was indeed a compromise that we too had extremely great reservations about whether he respects all the rules of international law, which we have already formulated since that time and we still have them. However, it came into a treaty which we cannot forget, where the countries of Visegrad have closed the borders. You cannot charge, Mr Gregoriadis, Idomeni to the government which has managed a huge crisis with the decisions of Orban and the Visegrad countries to close their borders. Let us make it clear that neither legally nor interpretatively can one reach such a conclusion - Turkey has not been recognised, at least on our own government as a secure third country. We could have this conversation as long as you want...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u207	Mr. Comrade, please. You've been in 12 minutes. It's not fair to your colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u208	I understand the stress and anxiety, but unfortunately we should, because we are not in a channel here, hear the opposition and its positions sometime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u209	No objections, but there are rules. I say this because two Members spoke with SYRIZA, twelve minutes with Mr Vitsas and four and a half minutes with Mr Psychoyos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u210	Did you do us such a favour, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u211	I say this because time is pushing us. Colleagues are waiting for the committee to begin. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Buga, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Janakopoulos began his speech by saying that the New Democracy is not doing well in economic policy and does not respond to its institutional role according to the Constitution. I must remind the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman that thanks to the economic policy pursued by the New Democracy Government in the first quarter of this year, our country has had the lowest recession in the Eurozone, it has been supported horizontally, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, all the social groups, all the workers and businesses and the economy are already in a phase of relocation. As far as the functioning of the institutions is concerned, I should remind my fellow Member that your own Minister, Minister of the Government of SYRIZA, is currently being charged with intervention in justice in order to prosecute his political opponents. This and many other things, which I do not have time to remind you, are a major blow which your government has caused to the institutions. You should therefore be very careful when you talk about violations of the institutions and rules on the part of the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, immigration is a difficult and diverse issue. It is certainly a humanitarian, national, political and obviously European issue. The international aspect of the issue has also been raised, which the New Democracy rapporteur spoke about. We hoped that the debate would be held today, so that this aspect could be brought to light, and that is why the Vice-Presidents of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and the Media have asked for a fundamental violation of the Rules of Procedure. That's not what happened. I will try, in the short time I have, to talk about this international aspect of the immigration issue. There is no doubting national success in the government's regular internationalisation of immigration. In this context, we must all accept that we are at a critical juncture. In the next few years the Union, together with the Member States, has to reach the necessary consensus on the drafting of a new large agreement on immigration. This negotiation is going to be complex, possibly long-term. Besides, all sides tend to agree that the first-host countries can no longer bear the burdens in the name of the others. It is right to point out that we need a permanent system of European solidarity. Europe cannot afford to fail on such a crucial issue. The consequences of an immediate failure will extend extremely damagingly. It will be in the economy, in solidarity between the peoples of Europe, in their social cohesion. The new agreement, which is to be signed, will therefore be based on three pillars: the conclusion of cooperation agreements with both countries of origin and the so-called transit, which will create opportunities for refugees to stay, the common strong management of external borders and the burden-sharing between all the Member States. The ongoing immigration crisis has highlighted the need to reform the European Union's asylum rules. As a result, asylum seekers should be treated in the same way throughout the European Union and should not have what is now the rate of asylum decisions being different in each country of the Union. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also say that the so-called 'criterion of the first country of entry' has highlighted the clear weaknesses of the existing system, which is excessively burdened by the Member States - first-line Member States. The above legislative proposals, which I have rightly referred to, will help to identify the Member State responsible for examining the asylum application correctly, to ensure an equal distribution of responsibilities between the Member States through a corrective allocation mechanism and to prevent abuse within the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement that we are now called upon to ratify is in practice an indication of the new era of extroversion for our country. Greece is not, nor will it be, alone in the management of the immigration problem and the great challenge - and with this I say to Mr Vitsa - is not the spontaneous and anticipated migration flows, but the conscious exploitation by a third country of mass movements of people through illegal crossing our borders. In order to deal with certain extreme situations, flexibility and determination is needed in the policy to be implemented by the Union in order to deal with them. In other words, we need to adapt to a new, unprecedented real situation. The recent events, with the successful and effective management by the Greek Government in Evros, may be the beginning of a new policy on the management of migration flows in the European Union, in which our country should have a leading role. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u213	Mr Chryssomalis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard from the outset the debate on the bill, the ratification of the agreement on the operation of an EASO operational office in Greece. First of all, in this respect, I do not think anyone will disagree, become such an office of the European Union and, by way of assistance, give us experience of asylum procedures. Our rapporteur has explained this very well, but I see that the whole debate is heading for immigration policy. I have even heard the rapporteur from the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs who has said that he is opposed - as he has called it - to which he disagrees. I, Minister, think that as long as you hear the Civic Opposition saying that we are dealing with immigration or anti-African policy wrongly, as they call it, I think that we are on the right track to get the country a serious, firm immigration policy, to stop the country being a clear vine where immigrants enter, melt and disappear. And, if you wish, I think that we are on the right track to have a serious policy towards the migrants or refugees themselves, because I believe that no one is and will be not be happy, nor will it be on the left, with the muds of Idomen where they had been stacked and with Moria, where we were seeing them in the snow. From there on, yes, it is a national matter. And here I shall disagree with the rapporteur from the Qualified Opposition. It is certainly a European issue, but I think it is a national one. But what can we do? We were asked to be next to the neighbor, Turkey was asking us to try to work on immigration by illegally trying to get illegally through illegal immigrants to make illegal colonisation, and we should first of all be prepared to deal with such issues as national ones. And of course we look forward to our partners, we look forward to the European Union. However, although they do not see us ready to deal with them, I think they will not go to help. I will use a phrase from the villages of Messinia, where they say 'if you have nails, scratch and don't expect anyone to scratch you first'. At this point, I would like to stress that the policy has changed with this government. We now have closed reception centres, closed borders if necessary and so the paces are reduced and it will be reduced and even further. Certainly for those who take refugee status, there are no possibilities to ensure that there are various things for them, such as the possibilities for the Greek homeless, and much more so for the refugee. We cannot save him any things that we would like, such as housing, food, work. We cannot achieve this to too much for our fellow citizens, the Greeks. However, they can go to other countries. The fact that legal refugees are not going, while they have the right, must concern us. Why don't they, like, go to Germany? Is there any other legislation in place and do they lose many of the benefits they receive? Should we also see Greek legislation here again? Mrs Anagnostopoulou said - and no one disputes it - that you first found the money for housing. No one disputes that. After all, we couldn't, because Mr. Papadimoulis would deny us. From there on, I would like to believe that the flows with our immigration policy will be reduced, because they will understand that not everyone can come here. We can't stack human souls here. They have to understand that we are not a beacon to welcome them, but that we have a policy. And I agree that a similar study should now be carried out on how many we can accept and what weight the country can bear. As regards the fireworks I have heard from Mr.Janakopoulos on immigration, that Mr. Bakoyannis voted with Mr. Cassidyaris on the municipal council on housing, I would like to remind you how many times Mr. Janakopoulos voted with Mr. Cassidy in this Chamber, whether to become Mrs. Thanos President of the Republic, or not to elect President of the Republic in 2015. If we want to talk seriously, we must finally look at the country's potential, see how we can primarily as Greece and, of course, also as Europe to deal with immigration and not, if you want, to be a field of dissent what society considers to be self-evident, that we cannot withstand them all. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u216	Here, Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, I would like to revise an inaccuracy that has already been heard so that there are no mistaken impressions in this House about what happened in the pre-examination committee and the opinion of the Scientific Office.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Kamine, this isn't about us today, but anyway, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, I would just like to say that the Scientific Service, when it decided whether the prosecutors and journalists involved in the case could be examined by the committee, said, in essence, that the committee was supporting them. This may not mean that they will not be heard but, as you can see, they will eventually not be heard, while they will be referred back to the Constitution. In other words, they were deprived of the possibility of being heard before the committee and of developing their views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u220	The Minister now has the floor, Mr Georgios Koumoutsaskos. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with one observation. The Qualified Opposition has today suffered a bad parliamentary defeat. Others asked, hoping or investing in the fact that the government, as they accused it, has no European strategy, has not made alliances, has not made proposals, and others have come out. So when you saw papers and documents given to you that there is a strategy, and unprecedented alliances have been built, and Greece is present as ever before actively and invasively in the European debate on immigration and asylum, what have you done? You've changed politics. You have asked for a debate on the international aspect of immigration and you have spoken about all other things than what we ourselves have called for. This is a frustration of parliamentary defeat. But you wanted to, but you got out, and you said more. And not just that. Apart from defeating the Civic Response, however, it is also a pussy, because it has used another request as a vehicle to raise completely irrelevant issues, such as what Mr Janakopoulos said. At this point, I would like to give a reply to Mr Janakopoulos on the fact that he sees a bad course for the government everywhere. It has nothing to do with daily, weekly and monthly broadening of the distance between the government and his party. And that's the answer for everything he's put in. He put them on and left. Now we go to two, three things that have been heard and need answers. One is the subject of Victoria Square. There there were twenty - five persons, that is, very few persons in relation to the voluntary departures that have taken place. The matter will be settled. And because it has been heard that the documents are not in all languages except in English, I would like to inform you that the documents have been given in all languages. Also, anywhere there is no allowance for 25,000 euros for immigrants and refugees. This is a gross falsification of the data and provisions of the law. Compensation will be given in cooperation with the municipalities and local communities, with which the government has a continuous conversation. Finally, I would like to make a statement about who is building the anti-European front within the Greek Parliament. The Communist Party of Greece, Mera25 and the Greek Solution. The defendant can draw his conclusions. From different perspectives, but this is the anti-European blog in the Greek Parliament. It is one of these three parties. And because the continuing criticism of Europe shows almost that we are wrong in Europe, I would like to say something that some will certainly understand. We have chosen strategically since 1974 with the decision of our founder and leader to be present at the great European negotiating table, where much is judged and about national interests as our everyday life, while you want to leave. So I will tell you what a people's wisdom says: 'He who is not at the table is on the plate'. So let's go to another one. There has been a sudden reference, in your view, with a strong complaint, to the fact that the Prime Minister has mentioned to Israel something that weakens national interests. But are you serious? Are you saying this one week after a transnational agreement confirming the fundamental Greek demand and the fundamental Greek position, that the islands have the right to all maritime zones? How do you come and say such things without shame, without a superficial, shallow approach, even in matters of national security and foreign policy, especially at this time when you are not supposed to do so? So let's go to the bottom of the debate. The substance of the debate concerns the ratification of a host country agreement and an international organisation that comes to act in Greece. It's a classic seating agreement. And I am pleased that it will be supported by a vast majority within the Greek Parliament. Contrary to what has been said, by some who do not know EASO has contributed to the country's efforts to manage the big issue of thousands of asylum applications, it has a substantial contribution, focusing on interviews with applicants, the drafting of recommendations, the provision of interpretation services, which are very important, the preparation of files for second-rate examination, the provision of information for countries of origin, etc. It therefore gives added value to the national effort. It is also an agency directly linked to the European Union's institutional system. It is not a non-governmental organization, as some have attempted wickedly to imply it. It is part of the European institutional structure. As such, EASO is working in Greece and makes an additional contribution to the major national efforts. Besides, after the agreement that is being ratified today, it has increased from five hundred to a thousand people who come to help in the front line and invested an additional 10 million, in relation to the past, in our country. However, the ratification of this agreement does not only have a technical or processive dimension. It has a very serious political dimension. Because the ratification of this agreement strengthens the position of Greece before the great, difficult and complex negotiations that will begin shortly for the new European immigration and asylum policy, the new European agreement on immigration and asylum, which comes in or, in any case, seek to replace what is completely out of date with today's migration realities Dublin. We will continue with such actions to strengthen the country's international and negotiating position. A similar agreement is in its final phase with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees in Greece and yet another agreement with the International Organisation for Migration. And we need this in the light of the European negotiations. It is therefore a very political decision and I am pleased that it will have the support of the overwhelming majority of the House. You have asked for a debate on the international aspect and you have done well, regardless of whether you have not discussed it. Because the international aspect is vital to the interests of the country. The causes of immigration, the reasons for its existence, are out of the border. But also the aid and support and assistance that the country needs to meet this challenge that goes beyond the borders is also the one. That is why we must discuss the international aspect of immigration. Every debate without it is a dangerous deficit because it deforms the broader picture of the issue. Now you know, with papers and proofs, that alliances have created very early: First the alliance of the Eastern Mediterranean between Bulgaria - Greece and Cyprus, in order to highlight the sensitivity of the Eastern Mediterranean, in order to awaken consciences and perceptions in Brussels. Then we formed the alliance of the five front-line countries, Italy - Spain - Malta - Cyprus - Greece, in order to promote the positions and sensitivities of these countries that first accept migration pressure. We did this, in time, in two phases: One when the debate was initiated within the European Commission on the text of the new Immigration and Asylum Pact and one at the end, when, on the basis of the information we had, the text was finally being finalised. A detailed report at the beginning and a brief and clear to the end, which we have recorded all our positions. What is the core of our positions? There can be no obligation for the front-line countries to make exclusively border reception and asylum processing procedures, without any corresponding requirement, on the need for effective and effective solidarity, implemented with the relocations of refugees and migrants to the other Member States. In short, Greece's fundamental position is: nothing can be mandatory if not everything is mandatory. Mandatory border responsibility, compulsory solidarity and redistribution from all other Member States. But we also have other positions with proposals tabled. Like the establishment of a European refund mechanism, because each Member State alone cannot achieve it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u222	We've done this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u223	We have also proposed a European mechanism to combat and break the backbone of illegal immigration networks and refugees. That's where the big fight is. In addition, a proposal which was also a product of consultation with other states, which has caused a strong productive debate, but also superficial, shallow attempts to criticise it. What's that proposal? Our proposal is to adopt - we know this is a very difficult attempt - within the framework of the Immigration and Asylum Pact a 'flexibility' clause rather than 'exclusion' or something else. What's that clause? Is it a white cheque of arbitraryness and violation of international law? Stay away from us. Never something like this from Greece, but what is it? It is linked exclusively to extreme, exceptional and dangerous situations, such as those that we lived in Evros two months ago, something that has caused a country that has shown that it does not hesitate to use immigration as a siege ram to achieve geostrategic objectives and blackmails to Europe. In such situations, therefore, it should be possible for the state which is in existence to operate, depending on the intensity of the challenge and only for the time that it lasts, by applying more flexible means of response. Who could that be? In the procedures, for example in the reception conditions, the compulsory allocation. And to do so, without being accountable for why it is doing so because it is obliged to deal with extreme and exceptional circumstances. When the events in Evros had taken place, the President of the Commission, Mrs Von der Lyen, congratulated Greece, after congratulating her on the 'European shield'. Shortly thereafter, the 'European shield' was accused, precisely because it worked as a shield. Here is a deep hypocrisy in which you, of Officer Response, participate. We cannot be both shield and accountable at the same time, when we are facing a kind of hybrid threat to national security.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u224	Tell the UN, Mr. Kumucaco.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u225	Exemptions clauses exist in international law and its general view, but also in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u226	You're right. You're right. You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u227	Don't interrupt, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u228	I shall refer to that. You are wrong, but I shall refer to this. In these excellent situations you, to SYRIZA, with whom are you? With him who cynically and in violation of human rights pushes people desperate to create illegal geopolitical precedents or the need for our country that, in accordance with European law, will have a flexibility in the way in which it responds. That's what you need to answer and get in position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u229	You want to push backs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u230	So do not undermine a crucial demand, a negotiating paper from the country, from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u231	You want to push backs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, there are moments in the country's national security...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u233	You want to push backs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Janakopoulos, let it end.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u235	When a neighbor has proved that he cynically exploits painful people to make them a siege of illegal mass border crossing, then at that time - and I will respond to what Greece...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u236	Are you gonna drown them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u237	You drowned them!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u238	It's annoying because you need to get in position. So at the moment you need police officers and border guards you can't seek lawyers. We therefore call for such a 'flexicurity' clause to be legislated according to the intensity of the challenge and only for as long as it lasts. In no way do we ask for a white check, for the use of the clause in normal periods. We all believe that it is ultimately serving the general framework of international law and European acquis. That's our place and it's where you need to get a seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u239	We did.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u240	You tell us: You want the freedom of a state to use or exploit a 4 million-dollar tank of refugees and migrants...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u241	That wasn't the question. You cannot always mislead the Greek people. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u242	...or strengthen legally Greece's ability to respond effectively?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u243	Has anyone interrupted you, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos? Respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u244	I'm the one who interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u245	But I didn't interrupt you either, Mr. Janakopoulos. There are answers to other questions, but the Bureau is allowed to speak. Let go of these now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u246	So you are faced with this bizarre - and I am very lenient - position, or with the position that the vast majority of the Greeks are asking for and need better defence of the borders, national and European.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u247	Orban's asking her, not us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u248	Mrs Anagnostopoulou, the Minister will say his views, as you have said. Please! Finally! Don't interrupt the speaker again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u249	(Not heard.)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u250	Mrs. Vulture, don't interfere.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u251	So you want to live and reproduce this hypocrisy. " Shield" Greece, but accountable precisely because it is a shield.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u252	Not to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u253	You're dangerous.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u254	(Not heard.)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u255	What are you throwing at? Does he want an attorney? He can't do it alone?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u256	Whatever I want to do! Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u257	Good. Let go. We'll see if and who we'll interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u258	Unless it's SYRIZA's.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u259	What are you talking about? Are you doing us a favor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u260	You're gonna interrupt him, like you interrupted me? You only interrupted me!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u261	So we do not agree with this hypocrisy and we will try this hypocrisy to... [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] Mr President, let them make a little patience. Two hours we heard them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u262	Wait, Minister, wait a minute. Because you do not want to hear things that are contrary, perhaps, in your views. The world isn't lost! And you wait, Mr. Janakopoulos. The Minister will tell what he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u263	Mr. President, may I continue? I need a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u264	Eighteen minutes he's been talking. Aren't you going to interrupt him? It's over. It's more than twice as much. Will you take him down, like you put me down?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u265	Listen. Can I tell you? You've spoken three times as much time as you should have, and there's still no more than three times his time left.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u266	I talked 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u267	And you took twice as much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u268	Are you an attorney? Are you his lawyer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u269	Mr. Janakopoulos, don't let go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u270	Don't you see it numerically. You'll see it under quota proportionally. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u271	Just a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u272	No, so it doesn't seem like we're doing something exceptional. If it's eight minutes, he must speak twenty-four.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u273	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u274	Because five minutes had Mr. Vitsats and spoke twelve, and you spoke about three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u275	I'm hanging up. You'll have time after you calm down as soon as I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u276	If we're going through a minute, is that a problem? Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u277	But our international action, our strategies, our alliances, our interventionism is not exhausted in this very critical debate on the future of the European migration and asylum system. We have extended our international action and the search for support and support at bilateral level, whether this concerns additional financial support for the country, either effective returns to third countries or to the very crucial issue for Greece and a sensitive issue of the relocation of unaccompanied minors, asylum seekers. I therefore have to stress and thank a number of states for the excellent cooperation we have built in the last year, the United States, France, Germany, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u278	Hungary won't you thank her?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u279	Hungary?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u280	... Switzerland, Norway, Denmark, Slovenia, Portugal, Ireland, Luxembourg, Finland, Lithuania, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Serbia and many others, who have not known you for days. We're with all of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u281	Are you telling us that? Please! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u282	...we've formed partnerships. Essential and effective.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u283	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u284	And of course, I would like to thank and emphasise cooperation with the European Commission, the High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Organisation for Migration. Greece has formulated and developed a comprehensive international strategy on migration. She will continue to do so, with perseverance and commitment to her goal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u285	Why are you disturbed by what the Minister says?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u286	Because we can't talk. You cut me in six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u287	No one should bother anyone unless it is insulting. Please, Mrs. Anagnastopoulou!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u288	We are doing so - and I am ending with this - and we will continue to do so with perseverance and commitment to our goal. We will continue to do so with great perseverance to our objective, which is double: on the one hand, the protection of the interests of the country, the promotion of its priorities, needs and positions, and on the other hand... [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that I am pleased that I have led SYRIZA to the loss of coolness and I will close with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u289	See now? Please, let the Minister finish. The debate is closed. There is no violation of the Rules of Procedure. Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u290	If you let me go, I'll finish. I close, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that Greece is shaping and developing a comprehensive European strategy on immigration and asylum and will continue to do so with perseverance and commitment to the dual objective: on the one hand, to protect and promote our interests in this crucial issue of immigration, to promote our positions and needs for support, on the other, to highlight the country, Greece, as a reference country for immigration and asylum issues, which, as the United Nations has stressed, will be at the top of the international political agenda for the 21st century. That's our ambition. This is our effort and we will succeed. You should know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u291	We saw it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u292	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u293	We're done. There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u294	We're not done, Mr. President. Won't the Bureau take a position?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u295	I'll talk to you later at the Cabinet. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have shown how high this House is. Let us ignore what has happened now, let us not record something in the Minutes and in any case put an end to the debate smoothly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u296	Is that behaviour? Will you make a recommendation?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u297	I have made a recommendation to all sides. We must all respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u298	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u299	Mr. Janakopoulos, we didn't come here to impress. I know the House has a spectacle, but there's another spectacle and another theater that sometimes happens. Well, let go of these. Let's stop. Then the Rules of Procedure clearly state that when one escapes the matter, the President may interrupt and remove the floor. Uh, we don't do that. There's a tradition here in the House that one can get away from the subject and expand. We now had a contract to ratify and extended to the whole range of immigration. All right, there was a tolerance from the Bureau, but that does not mean we have to go to converging. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of uniformity, the articles and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum: "Preparation of the Headquarters Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the European Asylum Support Office (EASO) on the operation of the EASO Operational Office in Greece". The vote shall include the principle of the draft law, the first article, the nominee article and the entire bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u300	Once the vote has been completed, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u301	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u302	Therefore, following the conclusion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum: ‘Definition of the Headquarters Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the European Asylum Support Office (EAASO) on the operation of the EASO Operational Office in Greece’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of the articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u303	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u304	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the minutes of the meetings have been distributed: Thursday 2 April 2020, Wednesday 8 April 2020, Thursday 9 April 2020, Thursday 23 April 2020, Friday 24 April 2020, Wednesday 29 April 2020 and Thursday 30 April 2020, and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u305	The minutes of the meetings: Thursday 2 April 2020, Wednesday 8 April 2020, Thursday 9 April 2020, Thursday 23 April 2020, Friday 24 April 2020, Wednesday 29 April 2020 and Thursday 30 April 2020 were ratified. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-16-S1-commons.u306	With the consent of this House at 17.45 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 17 June 2020 at 9.00 a.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
