ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the current Questions Release of Friday 28 February 2020. ‘A. (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Hussein Zebeck to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: "The Municipal Roadwork of the Centauri Settlement of the Municipality of Mykes". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 541/24-2-2020 of the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kaminas to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "The debts of occupied five-year firefighters for night work, Argons and Excellents". 3. The question by number 544/25-2-2020 of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The problems posed by the ignitions of the BIOKERRAL roof in Larissa". 4. The question by No 536/19-2-2020 of the Greek Parliamentary of State, Mr. Vassiliardou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Difference and Sale of Public Gas Company (DEP)". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Haris Mamoulakis to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on "Enlargement of the European Investment Bank (EIB)" to exploit the extent of Heraklion's "N" airport. Kazantzakis’.’ 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 545/25-2-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister of Health, on "Problems in the functioning of the General Hospital of Drama". 3. The Question No 539/24-2-2020 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Notopoulou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Progress made by the Metro of Thessaloniki". 4. The current question by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Change the positions of qualified doctors for the Ioannina Hospital "C. Chatzikosta’.’ REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question, under number 2478/9-12-2019, of the Greek Radical Left Coalition, Mr Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Organizations of arbitrary nature". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 2676/105/17-12-2019 question and application for the submission of documents by MP B' Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Application of the rules on pricing and pricing of water services". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the discussion and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs ‘Security reform and digital transformation of the National Social Security Agency (e - E.F.K.A.(')'. The Minister for Finance has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, today at the opportunity of discussing the insurance bill, I want to make a more comprehensive position for our insurance system. Insurance system which as a mechanism to redress damage due to the occurrence of risks inevitably touches every aspect of our lives. Social security teaches us that we cannot avoid the risks, but it is possible to reduce their economic consequences with the ultimate aim of achieving prosperity. The socio-security system in our country has become the subject of intense debate, especially in recent decades. Unfortunately, however, public dialogue and political arguments are identified and exhausted either in the viability or in the cash adequacy of the system. In other words, we constantly look at the result by closing eyes to the real causes, that is, its inherent distortions. For a long time the institution of social security has not been a whole structured on principles, but a historical product of distorted and unequal growth. In 1990, for example, there were three hundred and seven main and subsidiary bodies and other benefits. The model displayed great inequalities by combining gaps with superprotection islands. The nature of a scattered, perforated, uneven and ultimately uneven system was therefore shaped. In fact, the structure of the system itself encouraged the creation of inequalities and the maintenance of divergences rather than divergences between the same cases of insured and retired citizens. In addition, the phenomenon has also been observed since the birth of the system, the creation and maintenance of unequal funds. Some funds had few insured persons while others involved a large number of insured persons each having their own rules of procedure and mainly their own way of working. There have been serious, ambitious and ambitious efforts to tackle the chronic problems of our insurance. Others were more precarious and studied, other less. Some of them before our country entered support mechanisms, in the memoranda, with parties of today's opposition and political leaders, are then protesting on the squares for policies that they later adopted, but were also implemented. However, insurance is not a field of experimentation and must not be treated in this way. This country paid dearly. The average citizen has lost confidence in the system. Why, though, did this happen? Because both as a state and as a society were fearful of improvements and changes in the system. But at the same time as today, we were working at an acquired speed and at the time when we were not supposed to, we were overreacting, disturbing the equilibrium and stability with which insurance should be characterised and forgetting social solidarity. At the same time, however, we must not forget that insurance is a multifactorial issue. First of all, it has to do with demographics. The elderly are growing, children are decreasing, the labour force is reduced with the consequences of being huge in economy and insurance. The dependency index of the elderly is growing rapidly. This is demonstrated by the numbers of the proportional study accompanying the draft law. The crucial question posed to us by the demographic problem is essentially fair growth. Here the current government responds with active policies for the protection of maternity, family support, harmonisation of working and family life. Undeclared or misguided work is also one of the insurer's thorns and at this level, without doubt, a great deal of effort is being made and a remarkable work is produced by the relevant Ministry of Labour and its audit mechanism, the Labour Inspectorate. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law takes a crucial step towards tackling many of these challenges, a crucial step towards rationalising the social security system and adapting it to the constitutional choices of rewardability, equality and sustainability. These are three pillars of this insurance bill. In particular, firstly, the progressive and rational increase in the rate of replacement, depending on the years of work, is curing the equilibrium of the establishment of pensioners in low and small pensions, as has been done so far, which has led to a deadlock in the whole system, even redefining the behaviour of society. This creates an incentive to equate years of insurance with years of work, which at the same time signals the passage from undeclared or imputed work to declared work and to strengthen insurance awareness. Secondly, the draft law was initiated on the lines drawn up by the court judgments of the Supreme Court of the country. It is noted that the Council of State judged the substance, not just the formal unconstitutionality of the provisions of Law No.4387/2016, with the result that these provisions are a distillate of the substantive legal judgments of the court. Compliance with the case-law, with self-evident respect for judicial decisions, is therefore brought about by the introduction of a new model of free choice of the amount of contributions paid by self-employed and self-employed professionals. Thirdly, it is important that the targeting and direction of the electronicisation of procedures, the functional interconnection of systems and the administrative simplification are taken into account. The state has an obligation to facilitate the daily life of the citizen, to relieve him of meaningless transactions, endless tails, lost working hours, inappropriate procedures. Fourthly, the proportionate study, which has been prepared and accompanied by the draft law, demonstrates its viability. It is indeed estimated that pension expenditure as a percentage of GDP will in the medium to long term move within the limits of the average pension expenditure of the euro area countries, while the costs of the new insurance system move within the country's financial framework. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, with this draft law we are blocking a large part of the economy from the narcotic areas of the deadlocked regulation of the old system. At the same time, we are creating a new insurance system that is fairer, simpler, more rewarding, which will strengthen employment and productivity, a crucial size for the future of the Greek economy and, above all, will cultivate the insurance consciousness. I therefore believe that our national delegation must stand by this government effort. On such issues, which concern all of us, overcoming political infertility is proof of political maturity and any political proposals in the future are tabled, particularly in dynamic sizes, such as the parameters of the insurance system, they must have their sights ahead and at best, following best international practices. I would simply like to conclude by making a reference to the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Finance, which, in simple terms, solved a problem we inherited, a problem that was created during the five-year period of SYRIZA governance. Social security institutions had posted TAXIS the retroactive pension amounts rather than the year in which they came. This led the tax administration to charge the above amounts on the basis of the available data, without having audited over so many years of governance SYRIZA, that is, for five years, in order to determine where they are actually being raised, asking, among other things, the operators. As soon as it was found by the tax administration that the five-year term ends, at the end of 2019, and there is a risk of limitation - and indeed for elements at its disposal over all the years of governance of SYRIZA - it has sent thousands of notes to taxpayers with supplementary taxes, I repeat, for incorrect procedures throughout SYRIZA's governance, for a period of five years. In order to rationally address the issue that has been created, we are gradually moving towards its overall solution. The first step is to provide that these taxpayers will not pay anything by the end of May 2020, which is achieved by the amendment we have already tabled, and the second step is to soon include in the bill provisions of the Ministry of Finance these provisions which regulate cases when tax has been levied by mistake or fines have been imposed for credit, zero clearing of retroactive 2013, as well as any other relevant details. Our aim is to have confidence in the relationship of a citizen state, while respecting the principle of good administration, proportionality on the part of the State and, of course, tax compliance on the part of the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the Parliament, and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-seven students and students and two teachers from the 4th New Smyrna High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Avramakis has the floor from SYRIZA immediately after Mr. Sedetakis from New Democracy and then Mr. Katsotis from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I could not start my conversation on what is happening on the islands of the north-eastern Aegean, where the words that can express what is happening are 'wrong and disgraceful', disgraceful and disgraceful of a government which has shown for many times the inconsistency of words and actions, which other people have said in electoral terms and others, which Mr Mitsotakis spoke about to the local bodies and the inhabitants of these islands, saying that these islands will not become soul storehouses and will not host any more people than the local society and the economy can withstand. In contrast, we saw that we received a Moria with five thousand and today more than twenty thousand, with the problems that have arisen. What about the answer to all this? Retirement, authoritarianism, violence and repression. We have lived in the last two days of events very badly, we have seen clashes and clashes with a body, we have seen gunshots, and we have wounded on the other hand, citizens of Mytilini, Chios and policemen, who have paid the marble of the political choices of leadership and Prime Minister and government. It is a situation that needs to be dismantled immediately and measures need to be taken to ensure that local communities are heard. As far as insurance law is concerned: I mean that when we talk about insurance reform we must have in mind - and this is our position - that this must guarantee the public universal, compulsory social security system, have the characteristics of sustainability, proportionality, competitivity and, of course, it must be redistributive. Mr Brutsi's legislative intervention and the training of insurance is not in that direction. First of all, Mr Brutsis as a political leader of the Ministry of Labour has been recorded in the consciousness of the world as a person who is linked twice to the abolition of the tenth-third pension, with the complete deregulation of labour relations and the degradation of labour rights, was the inspiration of the infamous provision concerning the underprivileged wages of young people entering the labour market and was the one who reduced the basic salary. All this is certainly not a guarantee of the confidence we have to show and of the political person who is leading this insurance reform. The insurance bill itself causes loss of income and charges for nine out of ten pensioners and freelance professionals. The communication deception of pensioners and insured persons is completely collapsed. The government's strategic choice of burdening the many in favour of the few is confirmed. Instead of taking a step forward to public social security with the bill, two steps are taken back. The new Republic's insurance policy also creates a clear framework of incentives for a shift in private insurance. It maintains with the structure of the single body and the uniform rules of the Katrugalo Law, but abolishes the principle of social justice and redistribution. As regards the main pensions, the expenditure of the 2020 State budget on pensions is EUR 200 million less than the amount spent in 2019. The government shortens the pension pie, and on this smaller pie it also makes a reverse redistribution to the detriment of low-pensioners. The permanent thirteenth pension is abolished for all, and especially for the low-pension workers, and as much as you say to us here that it was an allowance you overlooked that it was 960 million missing and missing from the pockets of Greek taxpayers and pensioners, what this can mean for their lives and living standards. You can't deceive it by saying that the expenditure should have been 2.6. Also, put and account for the dividend you didn't give on Christmas, and then what consequences it had on the business turnover. You understand that each Greek taxpayer and pensioner understands what this can mean for his pocket and the prospect of his life. The permanent thirteenth pension passed by SYRIZA and paid in 2019 mainly to the low pensioners, ensuring almost the full pension - we are talking about about about eight hundred thousand pensioners - while giving more than a million seven hundred thousands that were entitled to this pension. Mr Mitsotakis' announcements at the IGC on the continuation of the tenth pension were completely and totally disproved. It is a challenge for Mr Brutsis to come today and to abolish the third pension himself for the second time and to have the courage to say that this has never existed. There were, as I told you, eight hundred thousand pensioners who took the full pension and a million seven hundred thousands who took the proportional part. The famous pensioner support mechanism that would replace the thirteenth pension is unclear. No aid mechanism for pensioners is provided for in the bill but only a vague declaration on strengthening welfare and health policies. Nine out of ten retired people lose a significant income. Just one out of ten of the higher pensions section will see some growth. The increases made by the government are inexistent or only accounting for the vast majority of pensioners. There will be no real increases for pensioners before 2016. This is a misunderstanding, since the alleged increase will only be accountable and will not go beyond the personal difference in which the pensions paid were protected when they were recalculated. So the actual amount of the pension remains the same. There will only be an increase for the approximately seventy thousand young pensioners with Law 4387/2016 and who had more than thirty years of insurance, while the pensions under Law 4387 and the recalculation of the pensions by some six thousand low pensioners have been increased since 1 January 2019. The increases are in no way what the government has stressed to get the monthly increase of EUR 252. As far as insurance contributions are concerned, and that is where we have the disconnection of income contributions. This abolishes the proportional and fair distribution of insurance contributions and thus prevents the basic principles for a fair redistributive social security system. Nine out of ten free professionals are heavily burdened with their contributions, a 20% burden, and that is a multiple burden for them, the low and medium-income, the 20% increase in contributions and, therefore, the multiples of their incomes are, as we have said, paid. The free choice of independent income class benefits high and high incomes, for example, someone with EUR 70,000 annual income will pay the same contribution as the one with EUR 7,000. Both, for example, will pay 220 euros a month. Thus, 7,000 euros have a 10-fold burden of 70,000 euros compared to one with far larger incomes. Regarding supplementary pensions, SYRIZA abolished the unacceptable zero deficit clause that it inherited from New Democracy and Mr Brutsis and had led to cuts in supplementary pensions. We had set the EUR 1.300 limit for about 85% of supplementary pensions. Today, the Government annulls this law and brings in a provision which, according to the decisions of the CoR, we consider that fewer or less will be those who will benefit from this arrangement. On pensions, and because it was also said in committees, Mr Bruts said that SYRIZA has reduced pensions overall and horizontally. We have actually made a reduction in supplementary pensions in the Memorandum years, but it is true that in the last two years we have made a great effort and increased pensions, at least, pension costs, plus the fact that at work we have increased the minimum wage and made a number of contributions in terms of collective bargaining and free collective agreements. With regard to outstandings in the EIF, it is true that the reduction of backlogs in subsidiarys reaches the end of 2019, which we delivered 82.4% and 74.7% in the one-off. Tell us where he is today. The same, of course, to the ECA as regards the payment of pensions. And there we had a significant reduction of 71% compared to 2015, as you handed it over to us, Mr Brutsis. You can tell us today where this is going. In conclusion, we believe that with this bill you are implementing the most extreme liberal targets of the memoranda when the country wants to come out of the memoranda. If you really wanted to help and deal with the problems, you would have gone on to a number of interventions, for example - and you would have voted on them - for the recognition of an additional five years to the active military officers who would have incorporated Article 11(1) of Law 4609/2019, which was not implemented by the ECA, because they were not included in purely insurance law. There could be a care for that if you wanted to correct timeless injustices. You could really give a solution to the problem that arose with minor mothers who were insured exclusively in IKA by 2010 to over 5,500 insurance days and could not retire in accordance with the provisions of Law No.4387/2016...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u6	I shall conclude, Madam President. ...and would even give an increase in the pension to the heavy or take care of a somewhat more favourable insurance scheme. Even these officials who have been working at the OAED and who have been hostage for years with judicial decisions, could take care to overcome the issue after years and actually join its establishment plan. These and many more could be done. In conclusion, I would like to say that we should discuss on the basis of strengthening the public pillar of common security, safeguarding its sustainability and claiming better living conditions for the whole society. Only on this basis could we discuss any bills. This bill, yours, is not in that direction, and we are voting against it. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you, because there is still a large number of Members who have not spoken and who will also speak with political leaders and have a roll-call vote, to try to keep your time with a little tolerance at all times. Mr Sedetakis has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the insurance system together with taxation and education has a decisive influence on the development of a country. It is, therefore, politically important to approach the current insurance reform, not with a narrow accounting perspective but with a comprehensive development philosophy. There is no need for philosophy to understand that growth is not just decided and ordered by some higher power. They're the people who create it. After ten years of recession in order to raise the wounded Greek economy all those who have powers, with all the forces that have to contribute to the development train. We have no luxury leaving anyone outside, let alone when we have five hundred thousand useful human brains, who have been trained here, have come to offer their goodwill to other economies. So the involvement of all the available forces in the new effort we are making is the central objective here in the bill. In particular, is it not the power of pensioners who have the courage and the willingness to offer? Well, now they are given the opportunity to come out of the shadow. They don't have to hide, work "black" and in fear of losing their pension. With this bill they will receive it at 70% and pay contributions and taxes. Is that not the power of young workers? Well, now you motivate them to enter social security and not to resort to blacks in order to keep something in their pockets. The incentive is special care for new entrants, with reduced contributions for the first five years, and no obligation to return the difference at the end of this period, as provided by the Katrugalou Act. Isn't free professionals, scientists, small and medium-sized businessmen power? It's 35% of the workers. We are talking about the backbone of the Greek economy. We want them active, we want them creative, we want them productive, chasing their jobs to win themselves and not chasing them the state to win their jobs. Well, they are now released from their special partnership with the state. Their contributions are disconnected by their turnover. From now on they will choose freely between six insurance charges for the pension they will receive. This is our key ideological difference from SYRIZA, which talks about proportionality in contributions to the state. But isn't taxation enough for that? Does it have to be social security too? SYRIZA blames us for not having to pay contributions in proportion to his income, the insurance systems will be deprived of income. So what's he telling us? That, by applying the proportional and high dividend from the troubles of these people, state pensions are guaranteed. That is, even today, SYRIZA insists on the classicity of the Katrugalo Law. Nothing was learned from the decision of the Council of State that considered it unconstitutional. And I read precisely why: 'It is up to the constitutional principle of equality in terms of the uniform treatment of persons under different circumstances'. And we are told these are the same things that this Step with the tomb and tears told us that it is every word of the constitution. But, of course, when we want to fish in the blurred waters of populism, the constitution is written in our lagoons. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. We do not expect SYRIZA to respect the institutions that it invokes and uses a la cart, nor to admit that this conception was deeply classic, unfair and immoral. At least let him realise that it was an inefficient policy and that is why the citizens voted against it. Because anyone who's wrong will find a way out of a state that's robbing him. And if he doesn't find out, he won't pay, because he won't. And if he doesn't pay and owes, he'll stop his activity at least legally. So the most productive part of the country you pulled out of production and the state got nothing. And when the state loses income, it loses the possibility of rich pensions and social benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, the widening of the social security base is the first bet we have to win. The other is about recovering the trust of the insured. But that is not the case if you force people to contribute to public social security. It can be done if you convince them to trust her. And in order for the Greeks to trust public insurance again, they should be persuaded that they will have an interest in trusting it. Obviously, they will not trust her when they do not know which pension they will receive, after how many years of work and with what amount of contributions. Well, from now on they will know about it at any time with the digital pension that we import. Obviously, they do not trust public insurance when they wait for years to start paying them pensions. Well, that's over. From now on, with digital transformation, the retirement and one-off will be done in real time. Finally, they obviously do not trust public insurance when there is no system reward, when people arrive with a few years of work almost the same pension as the people who worked most and contributed more to the insurance system. Well, that's over. Those who have stayed or stayed at work for more years are rewarded. Old pensioners will see increases in their pensions and those who come out with over thirty years or stay up to forty will see high rates of replacement. Ladies and gentlemen, greater confidence, greater involvement is the core of the philosophy of this bill. And every of his orders echoes the philosophy that governs our sidelines, our strong will for growth and our deep conviction that only by the ascension of all Greeks can we achieve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u9	I too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Katsotis from the Communist Party has the floor now, and immediately after that Mr. Ploris.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u10	Minister, no matter how warmly you applaud those who remind you, you should know that from the outside this afternoon there will be thousands of people who will not only applaud you, but you will be "...". They will be the ones who will demand, they will claim what you stole from them and continue to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u11	Come on, nice. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u12	Shame on you and I'll see you later. We want to denounce the explosion of state repression, violence and terrorism against those who react to this reactionary policy of yours. The people, however, break fear and stand fiercely against the state repressive mechanism. You support in all ways the choices of capital to create prisons on our islands. You support the chosen BSE, the leadership of the majority of the GFCM, with the specific individuals who make it up, because their contribution to anti-grass policies was decisive. Mr. Brutsi, I see your pleasure with the MATs of employers, prosecutors, your partners in the cracking of labour and insurance rights. You have seen and will see in the course that attempts to block workers' struggles will not have any luck. Despite the attempt to prevent mass strikes, protests, they were not able to do so. In the afternoon, as we said, thousands will be on the squares and streets throughout Greece. This draft law, which we are debating today, is another initiative by the parties in the bourgeoisie in order to complete the claim of business groups to convert insurance from social to individual, to completely exempt the urban state and business groups from their participation in insurance, to support and further strengthen the action of business groups in insurance. Is this draft law an end to this strategy which has been drawn up since 1990? Oh, no. The Government is preparing to bring another bill into March with new arrangements for the operation of the capitalisation system in insurance, i.e. strengthening the private pillar, which will complete the crime with the definitive death of any social characteristics that have remained in insurance. Walking the insured, the Minister of Labour addressed the SYRIZA, saying: "Everyone says his own and inexpensive times and with excesses for things that are impossible. But the Civic Opposition, gentlemen of SYRIZA, has a very serious institutional role." That's what he said in his speech yesterday. We recognize that SYRIZA is right. Why is New Democracy doing today? He continues SYRIZA's policy. It covers the legal gaps of the Katrugalo Law and takes the next step of privatisation that is the basis of your own law. However, Mr Brutsi, the positions of the JRC by the workers, the self-employed, the farmers, the scientists and their children are not considered excessive and impracticable. They know that the conditions allow insurance from any risk, pensions such as to ensure a decent living for all those who spent and spend their youths, every nucleus of their lives, creating the infamous riches that fruit him with a handful of parasites. Is it really an exaggeration, impossible, to claim stolen? Who thinks it's too much? The thief, of course, who is none other than capital and all of you who serve it. Is rehab too much? Who thinks it's too much? The chapter and all of you who consider decent pensions and benefits to the past. Is it too much to reduce the retirement age limits to sixty for men and fifty-five for women, as one of your Members said yesterday? It's about the capital and its political staff, because they don't want to give back anything from the stolen goodwill to those who have been filling their vaults for years. They want to produce goodwill until they die. You call this active aging to hide the inhumanity behind these words. Is it an exaggeration of the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions received before the crisis by pensioners? Is the demands of workers and pensioners exaggerated? So who characterize them as excessive and impractical? The exploiters of the working class, the populaces who seek to get back what they had to give under the hard struggles. In addition, the civil servants of the bourgeoisie and the few who satisfy every choice with the constant overthrows of the insurance, labour and social rights of workers and the people. Gentlemen, you're accomplices to crime, the grabbing of the reserves. You have worked with the embezzlement of 100 billion against interest-free deposits and the stock exchange. For another 100 billion euros, as the General Accounting Office of the State appreciates in its reports, in the pension cuts in the period of crisis with the laws - slaughterhouses of Loverdos - Koutromani, Koutromani - Brutsis, Katrugalos and again Katrugalos - Brutsis. I'm telling the names so we won't call the numbers. What do you want? Forget all these pensioners, the insured? No, because these are the pensions they should have received, they are the insurance benefits they should have. To come to the great lie repeated by the Minister of Labour every weekend - I do not know if he will continue - that this bill does not reduce, except for the great slaughter of the pensions you have all made and you continue with them. The Minister in his speech on an explosion of sincerity was revealing. So here's what he said yesterday. Yesterday, during the committee, in SYRIZA's plea and argument that the 2020 budget has 206 million less pension expenditure, the Minister asked: 'Is it true? Of course it's true, he says, 'it's in the budget. We never lie." "But I did," he says, "a quote of the past. In 2015 on SYRIZA it was 96 million smaller than pension expenditure, while in 2016 it was 206 million. In 2017, pension expenditure was less than 744 million. In 2018 we had 343 million smaller pension expenditure and in 2019 we had 416 million reduced pension expenditure.’ "You don't say that, Mrs. Ahchioglu?" Mr. Brutsi asked. "This reduction in pension costs that you did what is it?" So he reveals the lies he tells the Greek people, the insured, the pensioners, that he does not reduce pensions, that he does not continue with them. The BSE aprons are slaughtered, he says, lads. What can anyone say? The word shame does not render the size of your cynicism, your disgrace to all those who have made it live unreasonably. But you should know that you may take the congratulations from business groups to smash pensions, but forgive me, the people who are insured will not give you the bill and sooner or later they will send you the bill. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. You will allow me, Mr. Colleague, to ask you to withdraw the expression you said before...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u14	What expression?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u15	The expression you were addressing to the Minister. I do not want to repeat it. For me, the controversies and controversies are politically correct, if you like, and the tensions within the Chamber...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u16	But, Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u17	Let me finish, please. As far as I am concerned, this expression in your political presence is inappropriate. If you do not withdraw it, I will delete it from the Minutes. Please withdraw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u18	Madam President, the people outside this afternoon with this '...' designation will express their reaction, their resistance, their protest. What's that? What's wrong with that? I don't understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. I would ask that it be deleted from the Minutes. Mr. Ploris has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u20	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u21	Here you go, Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Unfortunately, the expressions used by the honourable Member are inconsistent with his status as representative of the Greek people. The Greek people, ladies and gentlemen, have chosen us so that we can show a decent attitude here, a behaviour which will set the good example, say it popular, and of course cannot be heard in the Greek Parliament. Because then we will also be cohesive of what is then incidental and, in general, acts by the Greek people. Let's keep up. We all know that the days we're spending are hard. We have too many and very serious issues and the country to deal with, but here in this House too, very serious bills that we are discussing. I would ask all my fellow Members to restrain themselves, and of course, when they are addressed to a minister, whoever was in that position, any minister of any government, is unable to use the expressions they use on the court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u23	In the savours, you're first!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, please. You can ask for the floor and say something, but not that way. Please. It's over. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", seven people and two escorts from the Day Center of the Centre for Psychological Health of the Holy Rearryrus, as well as four people and two escorts from the Center for the Day of the Centre for Psychological Health of Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Ploris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, in the democracies the people are not represented as herds that some want, they are represented in what they vote on. Understand? That's the difference. Urban democracy with totalitarian communism is based on the fact that the world is expressed and is not expressed as a herd, the world is expressed with the elections, and you have been unavoidable for a long time, but you have to think at some point, because you have a certain percentage and you have not convinced the world all these years to increase your rate. And you know what your problem is? The Katrugalu law is, in fact, a communist law, completely. And I'll prove it to you right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u26	Let's hear that too!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u27	You'll hear it! I'll prove it to you. Maybe in communism it would be a click more. Everyone's gonna talk about things and he knows here. And I am glad that Mr Tsakalotos is here, because he is expressing the principle that 'we have done well and we have hit the middle class in order to strengthen the low strata'. Let's go see what happened now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u28	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u29	Mr Colleague, please confine yourself to your speech. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u30	I want to restrain myself, but I hear murmurs here, Madam President. If some people get murmured, they get the microphone to talk and hear an answer. They've learned well in the mutter. So let's go, ladies and gentlemen, let's see you two now. Free professionals, self-employed, everyone to talk about what they know. Doesn't it surprise you, first of all, that the lawyers' associations were in abstention for nine months, weren't we going to work in the Katraugalu Law, and right now there's a relief? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you have the courage to say - I have heard Mrs Ahtzioglu - nine out of ten and who are favoured. Math is simple. I'm reading what you voted for, Mr. Chakaloto. What did you vote for? Single-stage felony appeals. Get in the pretext. I read you exactly the numbers, as they exist. Do you know what a lawyer gets? He's got 880 euros. Do you know what a lawyer's rendering? It delivers 180 euros from the Occupied Territories. It's 165 euros at 22% of the tax. I'm taking the lawyer as an example that's on the lowest scale. VAT of EUR 180. 525 euros. Did you see it was a communist? The 880 euros he'll pay he'll have 355 euros left. Partner of the state. Watch out. The lowest lawyer. We got you the 22% scale. I was at 45%, at 880 euros worth 650 euros. I had a profit of 230 euros. And you thought that was a fair policy. We're going to the Triumphant Court of Appeal. Pre-coupling EUR 1,200. EKA 240 euros. Tax 265 euros. VAT 235 euros. EUR 740. He paid 1,200 euros the client to the lawyer and paid 740 euros. And what I'm telling you was for the civil engineer, it was also for the doctor, it was for the free trade. Who? The one with an income of up to 10,000 euros. The guy who was going above was on the scale up to 45%. So what is Mr. Brutsis doing now, you have the courage of some people to say about corrections to the Katrugalu law? What corrections? Totally different philosophy. Coming up and saying, no gentlemen. The insurance contribution is not a tax. The insurance contribution is something you give you to get back. And obviously because of the pathogens of the previous years, we realize that some will give more than what we will get. But not the confiscation of Catrugalo with 33%. And say happyly "yes, and if you wanted to give more to get more". In other words, you had people giving 1/3 of their income to pay up to EUR 1,700 a month for insurance contributions to receive a pension of six and seven hundred. And that's what you think is right. And I'm out of the law. Left you are in philosophy. You say: "The one who makes two grand to kick him. We don't care.' But let's go to practicality. Did you ever think you'd get real incomes? Because what's going on here now, which is the most important thing? Having gone from 22% to 9% the tax - so finishing this fairy tale - any increase on the first scale is fully covered by the tax. A benefit of EUR 1,300 from the tax, a charge of EUR 320 from the insurance contributions. Profit of EUR 980 first scale. Let's get to know each other. What really happened? Because the other guy didn't have his mind working to pay the SYRIZA government, we didn't have any honest statements. Because the absolute linkage of insurance contributions to income was necessarily evasive, and now an incentive is being given. Because being the other on the first scale and with 9%, tell me why the ten grand he said, if that man was going to do more, not to make a sincere tax statement. Because he now sees a state that doesn't come after him to go get it for him, as I showed you by numbers. And when you come here, I'd like you not to speak theoretically. I bring you the advances I have made for four years in my life of your policy. SYRIZA's colleagues, if you believe that this insurance was a fair question, I ask you something directly: why did you not apply it to Members? You were MPs. I made a tax statement as a lawyer on the Member's income. And I was left with 35% of my income. And the congressman stayed 70% of his income. Why, since it was fair that the insurer Katrugalo, what you voted for for freelance professionals, for self-employed people, for all people in the production process, did not you vote for yourself? Do you know why? Because what was of interest to you was to impoverish the middle class. It wasn't because you thought you had to get them money. It is the core of your ideology that says: When the other one is at a level of decent living, it actually has a freedom throughout the context of thought. You wanted another thing. Make the impoverished remain at the point where you are and make more impoverished to depend on the sharing that Mr. Chakalotos would make. So the insurance, which comes in, is at the core of our ideology, of liberal ideology, where the other has an incentive to remain in the labour market for more years to get more money. And he knows that he has a fair payment to the state and will have the reward when the time comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Stoltides from the Communist Party of Greece now has the floor. Immediately after Mr. McCropoulos and then Mr. Karasmanis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u32	Madam President, something has happened to the colleague and he will be back in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u33	So Mr Markopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not go more technically into the new insurance issue. This has already been covered. We will also avoid the extreme positions of the press 'the world will moan on you'. I do not think that this belongs to the area of the Greek Parliament. But there is a very nice old folk song, which I will recall. I don't remember the composer. I'm talking about this. It is my'mind enthusiasm'. So this reminds me of the criticism that I dominate from the point of view of Officerial Opposition, on the part of the SYRIZA, regarding the new insurance bill. A bill, which Yannis Vroutzis brings, which has studied very well. It is one of the deepest knowledgeers of insurance data, insurance in our country. And I say "blushing minds" because I hear you talking as baby virgins, as uninfected, as some who did not care about insurance, as those who eventually only gave up the pensions, those who were in a logic "take people, we give thanks, the team gives". The Greek pensioner from your years left very happy, with additional income. And finally I ask: Why, you guys, did this Greek pensioner finally vote against you? Because in all the quality measurements, in all the analyses, your pensioner voted against. Let me remind you: didn't you cut pensions? Didn't you tax the insurance company? Who was it? It was you, wasn't it? The tie movement, do you remember? Because we're all talking about movement, but we're forgetting the other movements. It is not only the movements, which come from specific political spaces, that are the movements of society. So the tie movement was here. He played games. Civil engineers, lawyers, free professionals, whom you devastated. Listen to this because it's very important. Approximately EUR 500 million was the loss of insurance income you know from what? Because the free professionals didn't last. What did they do? There have been forty - three thousand IKE foundations to avoid burdens, which you charged them. You guys did so well. It was so exceptionally everything you've done. So this avoidance of payments - contributions is your work. And that's because the free trader was having a good time. He was having a very good time. The Greek was insured. I'll confess something to you. With your insurance contributions, I personally - because people think that perhaps because we were Members of Parliament, all of them are pomegranate - I came to an economic stalemate, as well as very much fellow journalists, who were in service blocks. After twenty-four years of continuous activity - I first opened service blocks and then went to a hired service - I had to close my service block. You poored us. And now you're coming to tell us what with your blurred mind? Whatever it is, he says, a bad insurance policy and what you, he says, did everything well. And you gave, he says, a thirteenth pension. We don't get to you by the good things you've done all these years. And I repeat. Why did the Greek people vote against you? So because of your failure, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA's dominance - because of your idealism of professionals have become poor. The middle class has been kicked. And this without an insurance pay back, without a return. The free professionals, master, whom I want to talk about today, are melting. We're suppressed. We're broken. And it's your fault. Your policies have a name. They're specific. It's dogmatic. They're ideological. They're your blurred minds. Let's go down. Didn't you guys get down - or did you get rid of the CSCE? Who did it? The 'first time left' did it, which will clearly not be repeated, because the Greek people know and know. The 'first time left' evaporated the EVS. Don't you reduce pensions? And now, do you talk and move your finger? We - you know - we're not lobsters. Look for them in other countries. We know you. We remember you. And we will constantly remind you of the Greek people. You have been dominated for four and a half years, shaking the finger for a political system for over forty years. Do you think we will forget what the first time left did by 2023 and 2027? We will be here and we will remind you of everything you have done on the first time left. So don't ask for the change. Because you won't get any change. Because there are no change. You dismantled the Greek professional and the Greek pensioner. So Yannis Vroutzis brought a cut, a clean one, a viable insurance policy for the vote. I know Yannis Vrutsi, and I honor him as an honest politician, who never hid his views. And he was clear, structured and measured. He's bringing Yannis Vrutzis an honest insurance policy. This is the title: 'A fair insurance', net. He's bringing a law for the first time after eleven tough years. And for these years, your idealism and mistakes have been blamed. And your idealism has also cost. And it's the first insurance bill, which doesn't talk about reductions. He's talking about raises. And it gives to the tortured really retired, to the tortured Greek hope. This insurance bill disconnects income from the contribution and gives freedom of choice of insurance scale. He - to teach you a little - is political liberalism, the right of choice, the disconnection from income. Because you are stuck with practices that we have not only condemned as the Greek people. World convicted. And you're there, in the great state, in the pressure of the successful man, in the pressure of excellence. The New Democracy, therefore, also stands at the height of the occasion. We quickly understood the problems of a dogmatic in conception of law, the law of yours. We've rectified injustices for the disabled, for widows, for sick members. And I will repeat that from this point of view: the New Democracy is the great popular party, from the people, for the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u35	We saw it on the islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u36	We understand that you're rooted in your alliance with the far right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u37	We saw you on the islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u38	On the far right, right? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Tell us, are they fascists, so I can return it to you? Please take the time. They are fascists and extreme right-wing those who react or active citizens...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Comrade, I won't take time. Continue your speech, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u40	Because in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 were fascists. You coexist with fascists. Because you called them that. We weren't telling them. Now, they're active citizens, those who say fascists...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u41	Colleague, continue your speech, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u42	Does Mujour express you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u43	Please, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u44	You'll get the mutt on you. And the insurance "mozzouris" that you had for so long forced the Greek retired person to have over the head. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] The "bug" of the reductions is on you. New pensions are increased. You are the party of the'mojouri', of the insurance'mozouri'. You will always be the ones who will always be and always remembered for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u45	Mr Colleagues, we have already made a comment to a colleague on the way she spoke. Please, that's not a way. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u46	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u47	I am referring to the Mujouri you mentioned earlier. Please, too! I'm going to ask you to withdraw that expression, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u48	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, please. We're in Parliament's room.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u50	I'm not withdrawing anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u51	Mr Colleagues, let me say that the debate has been going extremely well so far. It's good not to get upset by the way we talk. Please let colleagues tell everyone what they think...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u52	Madam President, I have not seen you request revocation from the JRC of the fact that the people will mow Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u53	You weren't inside. You didn't watch. So, I would ask you to withdraw this as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u54	The mozzur remains.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Stoltides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. As in all other cases, you have again found a wishful word to hide a great robbery, to dismantle the great conquest of the working class, that of social security. You called it'reform', i.e. the conclusion of pension and insurance funds by the State, banks and corporations of insurance companies. You called the "reform" the robbery of 100 billion of your governments over the last decade, but also the other 100 billion previous ones, which led all together with the Katorugalou law to the well known - not to repeat - rates of replacement, abolishing the tenth of the third pension, abolishing the EAS, etc. In other words, they have led to hunger pensions the vast majority of pensioners. And Vrutsi's law came to close the doors and windows of the Katorugalou law, so that he no longer has any luck at all, even justice. This great reform effort by all of you, as it is called, even sends out to those who have worked uninterruptedly for forty years, namely those who are now a species to be extinct, a pension of EUR 384 national and EUR 250 in return, i.e. EUR 634. And you are leaving the way open for further reductions and future changes in the rates of replacement, cutting personal differences, needs for budgetary space and so on. I mean, sure thing. You have emptied the funds and done proportionate studies. For returning to 200 billion and forcing us to look at sustainability after the studies. Return the State’s and the employer’s contributions and do after the proportionate studies. Then you will see, what sustainability the workers have ensured for them and their children. But here, what is historically great overthrow is the crime you do against young workers, the new generation. For all these people, from now on, you ensure retirement age limits such that no one will get them and bloody contributions that will go to the pockets of a handful of business groups and ensure that they do not have to return anything to benefits. So go the retirement thresholds from one side to the seventy years and, on the other, turn the carpet to be unable to reach it on the basis of fundamental rights. Because the glaring of flexible forms of work of fixed-term contracts, which, this year too, have exceeded new recruitments in stable and labour relations, the limit of insecure work that is growing rapidly, the uninsecure unemployment rate is more than a million years old for the majority of the workforce on the basis of a retirement average after 60 years of work. For those who manage to overcome these arrays of widespread unemployment, mobility, and also the same human biological limits, you are rewarded with the lowest benefits, after you have ensured the evacuation of rented work and contract employment, the abolition of collective labour contracts which will lead to the squeeze of every average wage to the minimum and the thousands of redundancies on PPC, "LARCO", banks, OTE, fertilisers and elsewhere. Of course, it is no coincidence that BSE is rubbing its hands through IOBE when it says that the new insurance system will save 80 million euros over the next thirty years, with 100 million euros. What does "saving" mean? And BSE doesn't rub its hands on the sustainability of the insurance policy, but on the sustainability and continuation of the robbery. You brought the committee with the bodies that the majority of the GFCM put the seal on the application of all of the above. You've brought those who've been rejected by all the workers, where they've been found and where they're standing, and they're doing what they don't understand why. You brought them to tell us what? Did you bring them to tell us that they were in agreement and that they would get in front of playing the employees' contributions in the stock market and get smoked? Of course, it makes sense why the employer trade union officer came in. However, do not present him to us as the worker's representative. All Greece has seen who it represents, that is no one. So, did you collect the acceptance of the popular majority? Well done for your believable way. You have certainly rewarded them at the GSEE conference last night, by imposing on the MATs and the Orgy of Innocence and the entry of the employers unions and the stay of the chairmen in the thick of their prerogatives. And there were all your orders there. And PASOK and New Democracy and SYRIZA. They were locked two days in the luxurious hotel that was paid with the workers' money and kept by hundreds of men of MATs to properly make dirty sharing. But you contributed decisively to revealing your role, the role of your people in the labour movement. The workers now know better, and they're the ones who'll say the last word. You also hide all of you that social security is not just pension. It's for health, welfare, medical care, children's vaccines, the protection of maternity, protection from occupational accidents. These were all benefits within the social security system, conquest and so on. You have also been tempted by the robbery of the insurance funds by insurance companies and by the continuous underfunding of the health sector. You didn't leave swimming pool in hospitals. You have called the least basic package the misery of not being able to heal even from the elementary diseases. You get to the point where private health businesses are the only option, and they're looking at you if you're having a bad teeth or a pound more to pin it on. Because there's nothing more serious than talking about insurance. And whoever gets the favor, of course. We ask: is this the life you are preparing for the workers, the new generation? So, the ones that bring in the fourth industrial revolution you all talk about at every opportunity like it's any weather? Those who make and operate new machines that are faster, that make production more automated and capable of producing everything that a man needs in much less time and with much less effort. They are the ones who are condemned to work in extermination terms, in wages that cannot reproduce their very existence. Are you telling them that they will have the right to heal them and their children and that they will not have the right to retire? And without shame, you are bragging the word dignity next to this life that you are preparing them. You say, decent minimum wage, decent pension, decent access to health and care. We're telling you that you cost her very low the dignity for the producers of wealth, gentlemen. Your concept, however, and the working class knows to cost its existence, its value, and its children's value in a very different way and will make it clearer and stronger, more massive and decisive struggles. Pleasure all of you for the overwhelming majority of our people a one-way which, not only will not be tolerated to read it, but will soon have no choice but to draw up their own one-way, which is no more than the fall of all those who break his life. Because that's how they know they're expecting a life like the incredible wealth they're producing themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-four students and students and two teachers attending from the 16th Municipal School of Glyfada. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now Mr Karasmanis has the floor from New Democracy, shortly after Mr Manolakos also from New Democracy and then Mr Gokas from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, firstly - firstly, we must see without micro-party deformative lenses, but above all with tangible comparative data on how the current insurance system has worked, what its impact on all categories of insured persons and what arrangements are being made with the new one. The memories of the fierce reactions of workers and pensioners caused by the notorious n.4387/2016 are fresh, the Katorugalou law as it was established to be called, who has, of course, been considered unconstitutional by the Council of State. While the bill under discussion, as shown by the whole of its provisions, and as I shall prove subsequently, radically corrects all the injustices that had been created. I will begin with the fact that, until now, insurance contributions have been determined on the basis of taxable income. In addition, the insurance contributions of last year - a pan-European originality - were added to taxable income. Along with the high tax rates, they held any income and made the work inconsistent. Now with the new law of free choice of the insurance category, they will be deducted from taxable income. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy was committed to changing this law and that is what it is doing today by implementing its election announcements and commitments. In this context, it brings this bill which has no pension cut, instead has increases. Today's and tomorrow's workers, those who have, or will have, thirty years of insurance, will have increased pensions. It is therefore an insurance system which is fully based on modern international socio-security principles and concepts of reciprocity, justice, flexibility. But it's also innovative. It enables the worker to choose the insurance category he wishes and which each year can change it up or down, depending on his or her possibilities and options. Unlike the n. 4387, which acted on an equal footing by extinguishing workers from tax evasion and tax evasion. It is also important that the government's bill gives all new entrants the opportunity to make contributions for five years, while only doctors and lawyers and engineers who, after five years of work, have been asked to pay for the differences. Serious reform is that the primary sector, farmers, farmers and fishermen, are treated with adequate sensitivity through a specific protection framework which gives them, among others, the possibility of a free choice of insurance every year. With two words, ladies and gentlemen, the balance at the back of the tax and insurance funds is positive for the insured, workers and pensioners. Special care for all pensioners is still quite clear. In particular, pensioners will be able to continue their professional activity without any reduction in their pensions. As far as pensioners in the public and private sectors are concerned, they will now have the possibility of legally joining the labour market and still receive 70% of their pensions. There is special care for small and medium-sized enterprises, as those with an absolute disability will be excluded from the requirement to pay 6% for health. Ladies and gentlemen, the government also attaches particular importance to demographics, a burning issue which threatens to develop into a time bomb for our society and our country, with dramatic consequences for our insurance system. In addition to the EUR 2 000 for every young child, in addition to the tax-free allowances and the additional EUR 1 000 for each child, it introduces with the insurance for the working mother provision giving a 50% discount on insurance contributions and concerns either mothers with an unpaid employment relationship, either self-employed, or freelance professionals, or rural women. Also, for the first time, supplementary pensions are actually being extended for hundreds of thousands of insured persons who have so far not had this possibility, including farmers who can now increase if they want their pensionable earnings. Moreover, the working time required from seventy-five days for the employee in fifty days a year and for the non-employer from three months to two months a year for the establishment of insurance capacity and health care benefits. Accelerating the granting of pensions for successive insurance and, with the basis of the pension entitlement, reducing the required days of insurance from the thousands of five hundred to a thousand. Also, the five hundred signatures that had to have been in the last five years are being reduced to three hundred. I would like here to return to my proposal to the committee, which concerns seasonal workers such as forest workers, loggers, workers at seasonal factories, tourist workers, builders, musicians, etc., who fulfil all the conditions to receive a reduced pension, but they are stumbled at five hundred, and particularly in the hundreds of them who are obliged to have annually in the last five years and which the nature of their work does not allow them to have annually, since the new year can make a hundred twenty-six days, the next seventy or eighty. That is why I have proposed that these seasonal workers should have the five hundred identities to have over the last five years, be cumulative and not a hundred for every year. And I am sure the Minister, with his sensitivity, will accept the proposal in the next bill. An important innovation is the recommendation of the e-ECA which introduces digitisation, which reduces the retirement time. For hundreds of thousands of pensions are pending and all these people have been waiting for years to take them and survive decently. And since SYRIZA's colleagues constantly argue about the abolition of the 15th euphemism, which was given election eves, following Hoxha's coup d'état, one is the answer: they forget that they have been deprived, among other things, of the low pensioners, of a billion by abolishing the CSCE and even 800 million by increasing the contribution to health by 50% to the main and 100% of supplementary pensions. They ended, that is, by these people, 180,000,000 euros. They literally dismantled the country's pension system, but they are supposed to be indebted to abolish the election allowance. I must say that from the point of view of the Officerate, I expected to hear a serious, substantiated representative, a proposal. But he doesn't. Therefore, all she has in front of her is two options. The first is to vote with us on this insurance reform, a new, modern, fair, rewarding, sustainable insurance system. The second is to insist on the anti-constitutional abortion of the Katrugalo Law, which crushed pensioners and workers. But the Greek people must call it directly and loudly to listen to it and to appreciate it properly. Thank you, Madam President, for the tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, since they have previously participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of Parliament, sixteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 55th Pireau Municipal School of Piraeus. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Manolakou from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Madam President. The low intensity of my voice has nothing to do with the warm support of the bill, but a sudden pharyngitis. But I thought I had to be present. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, insurance is traditionally a major national issue, which concerns directly the decent living of all Greeks. I was amazed to hear the speeches and suggestions made to the committees and to the plenary, which talk about an insurance policy which is heading in the footsteps of the Katrugalos Act, which brings crunch and cutbacks. But the new insurance system, as it now forms, has nothing to do with the Katrugalou law. And many previous speakers have already referred to this. It is the first bill accompanied by a full specific proportional study on main and ancillary pensions and confirming the viability of the insurance policy until 2070. I would stress that the absence of such a study was the reason that the Katorugalou law was considered to be unconstitutional. It is also the first insurance bill after twelve years that will have no reduction in pensions. On the contrary, there will only be increases. And to speak with numbers, in June about a million pensioners will see increases in their wallet, increases in the new main pensions activated by the vote of the new bill and retroactively from 4 October 2019, increases in the subsidiary where the misappropriated injustice is restored for the beneficiaries of the subsidiary that had suffered cuts in the summer of 2016 by the then government of SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, the new insurance policy has a social dimension and is viewed with humanity as those groups that need more support, giving a 50% discount on insurance contributions to new working mothers. It is very sensitive to pensioners who receive an EGTC or an absolute disability allowance or blindness allowance, who will now be exempted from applying the 6% EGTC contribution on their allowances. It also provides flexibility for retired workers. We as a government do not punish pensioners who want to work. The new system, which we are called upon to vote on today, is both modern and effective, because an electronic national social security institution is first set up, which immediately completes all the necessary procedures for the immediate performance of the unified pension. Do you know how many pensioners - victims of bureaucracy have until now had to live in loan, waiting to receive the pension they were entitled to and for which they have worked hard for too many years? The new insurance is also innovative, because, for the first time, freelance professionals, farmers and self-employed persons are given the possibility of a free and flexible choice between six categories for insurance contributions, depending on their financial capacity and the pensionable earnings they wish to receive in the future, irrespective of income and years of insurance. The new insurance is also fair and gives new impetus to the multi-faceted primary sector - fishermen, farmers, farmers - by bringing them into a special, favourable and protective framework of reduced insurance contributions. In this way we motivate those who want to stay and work on the Greek land, thus keeping the countryside strong. You will allow me to speak here about the corrections made in the calculation of the pension for a special category of personnel of the Armed Forces, which were unjustified by the new rates of replacement after forty years of insurance. And I am referring to staff, ladies and gentlemen, who carry out his home services at high risk for his safety, who does not know whether he will return his evening home and make us every day proud of the bold and risky activities in the air, on the land and under the surface of the sea. I therefore welcome, Minister, the corrective measures taken. The next point, however, to which I wish to stand - and it is the bitter truth that is reflected in figures from the proportional study accompanying the new draft law - is this: The official figures refer to a reduction in our population by almost 20% by 2070. This means, in practical terms, that, together with the insurance, we have to solve the most serious problem, in my opinion, of the demographic problem. Otherwise, I am very afraid that we will be faced not only with the sustainability of our insurance system, but also with our very existence as a nation. Ladies and gentlemen, this insurance ensures the weak and restores insurance justice by supporting those who contribute with many years of work. Most importantly, however, it seeks to reverse a well-established concept that has been established in recent years, that no one will be able to get a pension, which led to undeclared work with tragic consequences for the national economy and the migration of scientific potential abroad. So in the question - and if someone gets a pension, the answer is: "Yes, they will take the one that is due, without delay and unjust cuts" from the new law, which we will now call from tomorrow's Brutsi law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u61	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Gokas from the Change Movement now has the floor, and immediately after that he has asked for the floor for three minutes, Mr Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government is trying with a strong communication effort to convince that the draft law we are discussing is a serious reform for the country's insurance system. But that has nothing to do with reality. For us, the reality is that it comes to 'legise' the previous law - an abortion of Katrugalos by promoting adjustments that are still at the expense of the rights of workers and pensioners. So, we can now talk about a law of Katrugalu - Brutsi, as far as the insurance system is concerned. We stressed that the Katrugalou law is not correct, but is abolished. Of course Mr. Mitsotakis had said the same thing. With this draft law, however, the government does not reform, it does not differentiate, it does not update the Katorugalou law, much more it does not abolish it, it simply mobilizes it. In fact, it arranges for decisions of the Council of State, since, with Law No.4387/16, reductions in new pensions were dramatic and led to a system of pro-active benefits which violated every principle of proportionality, reciprocity and social justice. L.4387/2016 should also be repealed and replaced by a fair, rewarding truly and sustainable insurance system. The draft law does not guarantee the future of the new generation. It developed without dialogue and unconnected with development, linking to a project to address the demographic problem and with no resources to ensure the justice and future of the system, taking advantage of public property and mineral wealth, but delivered by the previous government and remaining in the excess. We still do not see the real economy facing major problems, and there is no complete plan for demographic development. The provisions of the bill undermine the public insurance system, as the distribution of assets against capitalisation, to the detriment of the social security and solidarity. So this is not a serious reform, as I said before. Serious reforms have been undertaken by the PASOK governments, such as the creation of EOPY in 2011 with the separation of pension branches from the health sector, the NSA since 1996, which has provided a decent income for four hundred thousand pensioners. The EKT was abolished by SYRIZA and today the New Democracy does not institutionalise a minimum guaranteed income for pensioners, but we as a Change Movement we propose and insist on it. Furthermore, the Solidarity Fund, the AACC or the CSDP in 2011 for a single health crisis for the disability rate. In this bill, what happens after all? Provisions are laid down for the organisational and administrative integration of the insurance system in the country. The new national body, e-ECA, will now be the one and only insurance body. There is also provision for the integration of the EMFF with the EIF from 1 to 3-2020. However, ladies and gentlemen, this incorporation opens the way, on the one hand, for the absorption, abolition of subsidiary insurance and the abolition of its branch, while, at the same time, they are incorporated into the EBRD and the 7 billion reserves that the EIB has. In addition, the recalculation of both pensions before and after the imposition of this SYRIZA law, calculated in terms of the new rates, is laid down. However, the very low rates of the Katrugalo Law are maintained for those who have up to thirty years of insurance, the vast majority of pensioners, mainly the private sector. The level of pensions for the years to come will be 15% lower than today, compared with 18% of the Katrugalos Act. This is a small difference and conditional. The pension cuts before 2016 are maintained and the small pensions arising after 2016 remain. For young pensioners, about 60% of the main pension will be the national pension and only 40% will be the payroll. One of the citizens find that little change and not serious. Another sees it maybe taking 20 to 30 euros above, another that, in order to maintain the same pension, it must choose an insurance category that is more burdensome to it. SYRIZA protests, but it does not tell us about the reductions he had and the Katougalu himself, and we also hear nothing about the disappearance of the supplementary pensions that existed under the same law. Both laws the previous one and the one to vote on the pensions are much lower than the PASOK Law.3863 in 2010. The latter law had transformed insurance contributions into another unstable income tax. The self-employed paid a total of tax, insurance contributions, solidarity levy, trade fee, 75% of income. Thus, the small and medium-sized classes, professionals, businesses, farmers, have literally become poor. The decoupling of the income levy is a necessary change. The former regime has led to tax evasion and tax evasion. It should not, however, create new distortions and misunderstandings in relation to employee contributions, and it should be noted that the lowest level of contributions for self-employed and farmers is increasing by about 15% to 20%. Ladies and gentlemen, there is indeed the need to restore the deep injustices that Mr No.4387/16 has caused. That is why we have tabled, the Group of the Parliamentary Party of the Change Movement, an amendment which we call on the government to accept and recommend: the re-financing of a normal tenth-third pension by starting from 2020 to all pensioners. We call for the abolition of Article 120 of Law 4611/2019 by which the SYRIZA government granted a pre-election allowance instead of a full normal 15th pension. We also propose the introduction of a new social solidarity allowance for pensioners with minimum guaranteed income, the abolition of the health care contribution on supplementary pensions, the establishment of the right to full and reduced pension for old-age women of the former IKA EFF, the extension of the heavy and unhealthy professions to the public, the retirement due to an old-age unrestricted pension after 40 years of compulsory actual insurance, the recognition of empty periods of insurance and unemployment as a fictitious age for the basis of a pension regardless of the final pensioner, the pensioning of parents, spouses and sisters of disabled persons, the abolition of the reduction of the national pension of members of the Greek minority in Albania and of the counterparts from the countries of the former Soviet Union, the employment of pensioners, the placing of the EIF - FIFFPA in the EIF. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the sacrifices made by the pensioners in recent years must be recognised by the state and the injustices and inequalities, to increase the standard of living of pensioners, must be eliminated for the real strengthening of social justice and social solidarity. This is not guaranteed by the draft that we are debating, and that is why we are voting against, apart from the few articles that have some positive provisions. But we call on you to adopt our proposals if you want to be consistent, even at the last minute and with your own pre-election commitments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25, Mr Gregoriadis, has been speaking for three minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is it you - do you believe - none of our islanders are? Apparently, no, you don't. Then you have to answer us why you beat them and beat them systematically, days and nights now. Yeah, watch me, you don't accidentally beat them, because somehow the situation got out of control of some people, because some thermo-heads, etc. No, not at all. You beat them thoroughly, beat them predeterminedly and with a program. This shows, at least clearly to me, the departure from the dawns in Chios of half the country, perhaps, force from all the power of the country's MATs. Really, now in ASAOE, Panteion, Exarchia, who's guarding them? I'm asking you, why a year now, since the election period, you've been trying to convince us that without the MATs, the upper locations of our country, the capital, they're automatically turned into a real hell on earth. Oh, excuse me, I forgot! As soon as yesterday, a special guard - yes, yes - one of Mr Chrysochoid's new recruits, took a gun back to a student in ASEAN. So, some of you've left behind for keeping order, huh? But, ladies and gentlemen, is that what I am talking about so long, orderly, or is it the ultimate attempt to destroy the order, that is to say, to draw a special guard and mark a student while he is demonstrating completely peacefully? There's a video. Have you realised that your doctrine of "law and order" in Exarchia, ASAOEE, and in Panteion has led to just eight months in chaos and absolute disparity throughout the entire Greek territory? First image: The departure of MATs to Chios. It's an orguenal picture as I don't know how many hundreds, however, too many, MATs, came out at dawn on the island with their bats, shields, chemicals and their unsufficient shepherds. Image second and common: It comes from yesterday's ERT3, public ERT3 news report I repeat, and shows again a man of MATs kicking in our young island's foot, who has already immobilized two or three of his colleagues and have been holding him on the ground from time to time. Figure 3: Again in Chios, men of the MATs fall out of their buses and after they hit completely unnecessarily islanders returning from the blocks, then their clubs break, apparently from their nerves, randomly parked cars of Greek islands. Figure 4: Men of MATs find ferocious refuge in an adjacent camp of the Greek army, persecuted by islanders. Image 5: Islanders unconscious, who have located a hotel located by men of MATs, who previously broke their cars and beat their children, enter the hotel in order to lytch up the men of MATs. What do you think, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? They bring me to mind, I'm sorry to say, a civil war climate. Congratulations, then, for having done this in just seven months. Have you figured out what our islanders have been going through for six years? You have realised that these soul storehouses are no longer soul stores for immigrants, which you call them vulgar, some of you illegal immigrants - they are people and refugees - but they are soul stores for our indigenous islanders, who have no difference. As you know, the prisoner and the prisoner are going through the same drama to some extent. Do you know why this is happening? It is because you refuse to collide with the European Union. Refugee to use the only weapons you have. And the weapons you have are to say directly "we will open the borders, ladies and gentlemen. Aren't you funding us? Are you making us a soul storehouse? Do you make us the last of the earth? We'll open the border." The refugees will reach as far as London and Germany are concerned. Refugee to do so. I close by telling you - and I mean it - if you do so, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are in danger of breaking the pan-European record of the fall of government in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Katrugalos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. The insurance issue must be one of national issues, not only because of its social dimension, because it concerns all workers, but also its interconnection with the economy. It can be a promotional factor, it can be - as has happened because of the mismanagement of the past - the main reason for producing deficits. It is one of the main reasons that led us, among the other sins of our economic and political system, to the great collapse of 2010. The way in which he faced the political system until the 2016 reform the insurance system had two basic features. He was a client, i.e. he did not treat the insured workers evenly, but had specific treatments in respect of certain categories of them. The second feature, essentially resulting from the first, was its deeply classic character. It is the result of the first, because everything that does not ensure adequate protection for everyone, but overprotection for a few and under-protection for many, obviously has class characteristics at the expense of many, but also in other versions and expressions. For example, the undeclared treatment of our insurance system's reserves for the financing of the domestic industry may have contributed to the development, but it has, in a one-sided way - a gift to the chosen ones of the system and basically - combined with the more general mismanagement of the assets of the funds - their insurance, so that when the crisis came there would be no "smoker" of the reserves to absorb it. If someone takes into account the great final disaster with the PSI, you realise that we have inherited a situation in which we had to resolve two major issues at the same time: the issue of the sustainability of the insurance system and the question of social justice and its inadequacy. This in conditions of major crisis, with a deficit of EUR 1 billion in the funds, despite the government's claims that we had been delivered with a balanced system. The reform therefore had two basic features. The main thing was rationalising reform with a view to restoring the system to balance. And this, in what way? Through general and implicit rules of a single body and, in addition, uniform rules. The single rules on contributions and benefits are the main feature of the reform, because the unification effort until then was essentially "Pantomkin effort", i.e., integrated the funds, but kept the pension rules as they had before. However, we were not only interested in the element of rationalising reform and ensuring sustainability, but also in social justice. This is why national pensions have been introduced, which is why replacement rates have been introduced, which for the vast majority of low-wage and middle-grade pensions have ensured particularly high rates of replacement. Contrary to what has been said, neither was competitivity neglected in the reform. Let me give you the following features: The rates of replacement in the two final steps of the previous legal regime, in L.3863/2010, were 1.4% and 1.5%. The two final tiles of the reform were 1.59% and 1.80%. And already, from the thirty years of insurance, the rate of the reform law was 1.22%, above 1.4% of the n. 3863/2010. That is not just what I said before. When the pension recalculation was applied, six hundred thousand pensions, that is, one quarter of the pensioners, saw from the application of the law on insurance reform increases in their pensions. What are the basic features of these six hundred twenty thousand? They were either low-wages, which benefited from the social justice element of the system, or people who had paid high contributions, especially to so-called noble funds of journalists, banks and paid higher contributions. Now I come to the law we're discussing. It is not in any case a section. It is a limited return to the past, a limited counter-reformation, which, as our rapporteur rightly pointed out, its basic features are social injustice and class monopoly. This is, moreover, the essential quality of return in the past. It is not a cut, because the basic institutional logic of the law of revision is maintained in all its essential elements, even in the case of free professionals who change to the far worse, as I will try to show later the rules in relation to contributions. The same rules remain with regard to pensions. The most important thing is that the New Democracy did not implement one of its election announcements of the complete transformation into a capitalisation system of the subsidiary insurance system, which would constitute another major attack on the public and redistributive nature of the system. This is one of the conquests of the movement, which from the outset reacted to it, and obviously also an adaptation to the respective decision of the Council of State, which actually seems to exclude the privatization of the public social security system or the provision of net capital elements, which are privatised by the private sector. The features of the law are four - and I'm going to run because my time is running out. The first basic feature has already been fully highlighted by our rapporteur, by the spokesmen of SYRIZA and the speakers of other parties: favor for the few. 10% benefits, 90% harms. It's a choice at the expense of the many, in favor of the few, with a purely class mark. The second feature, which does not - I think - is equal to the first one, is the particularly unfavourable treatment of employees. This results not only from the fact of comparison with the same category of employees. For example, besides paying a fraction of what a employee pays for his basic pension, he can choose to pay only those corresponding to the second payroll health benefit, while a wager, who has income, say the same as the free worker, of EUR 50-600,000, will pay ten times a higher health contribution. But that's not the basic feature. The main feature is that it makes money out of the insurance system, this part of the reform, which will fatally create deficits, which will again be fatally covered by the wage earners, who give 85% of the total cover, and the insurance and tax burden, in Greece. This removal, bleeding money from the system leads to the third feature of the counter-reformation, which is the latent privatization it brings. Yes, as I said at the outset, privatisation is not done on legal terms, because this would be unconstitutional, which the movement has already turned against this perspective. However, the possibility given to the upper tiles, which are essentially giving rise to what is taken away from the poorest and from the middle class, to use the money left in private insurance, which may benefit them personally, but which will greatly weaken the system, leads to what is called de facto privatization. The benefits of the public system will be so bad, since you are underfinanced, that those who are able to leave will leave and go to private insurance. There is, therefore, a conscious choice of downgrading benefits in order to benefit private insurance companies and the upper layers of society. The fourth feature has perhaps been approached less than the previous one and is likely to be the most dangerous one. It is the return to the logic of fragmented regulations and promises to everyone, without any reference to remuneration, in the sense of linking contributions to pension benefits. Why is this bill so many dozens of articles, while, as I said before, does it actually not bring about some sort of incision? Because he goes back to reason again that we can promise everyone everything, we can make individual arrangements, not to apply general and implicit rules, as would be the main feature of the reform, but with that logic that led to the proliferation of deficits. That is why we are listening to these promises, that pensions will increase rapidly, as Mrs Ahtsioglu has already shown in the proportional report, we have a reduction in the average pension from next year, but beyond the promise that we will increase - you say - pensions, you also have the promise that you will reduce the contributions. Well, these things are not done at the same time, they can't be done. For all these reasons, therefore, this counter-reformation, even partially, has a clear class mark and, above all, has a negative sign for the whole society. My last sentence is that in the future we must in particular take care to protect national pensions. In its explanatory statement to L.4387/2016 it is clearly specified that the national pension should correspond to the poverty threshold, i.e. 60% of the income as defined by the European Union. However, we have not been able to incorporate this explicitly in the text of the law because of the Troika negotiations. I therefore believe that for the future, this should be a care for all those who want to protect the weakest. That is what I wanted to say, Madam President, and thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, too. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured to the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS", forty students and students and two teachers from the 3rd Elementary School of Rafina. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Madam President. I take the floor because Mr Katrugalos was placed, who is the rapporteur and the legislator of the law, who is now changing and will remain in the past. I'm really impressed. Mr. Katrugale, you took the floor and did not say a word about his unconstitutionality. You said nothing about what the Council of State decided three months ago on specific matters. That is what you had to do today, you had to apologize before both Parliament and society for the unconstitutionality of the law on four major issues, which actually make your account collapse and confirm that it was in the wrong direction. Firstly, you said nothing about the proportionate study that the Council of State came up with and said it is unconstitutional, the law of SYRIZA, which Mr Katrugalos suggests, because he did not come by a proportionate study. How about this? Shouldn't you apologize today? And you see today the difference, that this government, historically, is coming, for the first time, depositing with the bill, with its insurance reform, proportionate study and study of the University of Economics, two studies. Secondly, you said nothing about the unconstitutionality you brought with the reduction of supplementary pensions. And it is not enough that you said nothing and you did not ask for an apology to the pensioners who have cut off these pensions, which were judged by the Council of State anti-constitutionals, but you did not say what you were proposing. At the end of the day, I have asked SYRIZA to take it to the end today - to say what it will do: will it vote against the increases of the subsidiary - which we are voting on today - or through the general refusal of the bill actually marks the vote on an anti-constitutional logic? Thirdly, you said nothing about the issue relating to the replacement coefficients. The Council of State told you that your law is unconstitutional, because it works in equal terms, does not motivate, as must be an insurance system, the logic of being attractive to the person who works for more years to get more pension. How about that, Mr. Catrugale? You are a constitutionalist and you have taken the floor and did not say a word about the crisis of the unconstitutionality of the Council of State. Be careful, I would like to have a constructive debate, because you also represent Civic Opposition, you have an institutional obligation. Fourthly, it is the question of freelance professionals. The Council of State has annulled your logic and said that it is not possible to deal with the same wage earners and self-employed people, even with the barbarium 20%, and you are coming today and you are obsessively defending this concept, which was equitable. And you saw in the practice of society, for looking into the same society, Mr. Katrugale: lawyers, doctors, engineers, farmers, self-employed, one and a half million people, have hailed and embraced our law, insurance reform, while you were on the road and you were told "the tie movement" by everyone. Two more evidence: You said risking losing money from what we are trying today. I am pleased that you have the same anxiety, because everyone's aim is to improve the finances of the insurance funds. My personal assessment is that after tomorrow's EKA's new platform all will be overturned and free of charge all the liberals, doctors, lawyers, engineers, self-employed will be declared freely and above. But at the time you brought your law, we lost 400m euros, from 2016 to 2017. Have you taken this into consideration? Does the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group know that since 2016 in 2017, while we have been at the pace of even anaemic growth, the free trade fund lost 400 million euros in one year, due to your law? With regard to the injustice that is now being created between employees and self-employed, I must say that I agree with you, but can you not invoke this because it was a great injustice that we truly correct and interfere with the smuggling of health, with the single health contribution that, now, gives a breath to the free professionals to choose a higher category and take a higher pension, but now you are criticising me for the employees? Listen, when we admit it, I say that yes, we create an inequality, but we will fix it and start from this year with a 0.90 reduction in contributions, and by 2023 we will go with another 4.1 points to reduce non-wage costs. I, Mr Katrugale, really expected you to come here today and say a few things and justify your policy - that's what you should say and justify to the Greek people the unconstitutionality of your law. The main thing, however, is that you owed yourself as a Qualified Opposition to say what you are proposing and how you justify the general refusal of the law by means of your nomination on the bill as a whole against the obligation that we as Parliament have to align ourselves with the decision of the Council of State, of legality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u70	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u71	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u73	Madam President, I would like to put it at your discretion. I want to react after the Minister has been placed - I have a right - but because I want to say a few more words and I will reach two - three minutes, if you want to go ahead, I can speak in a moment. Whatever you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u74	You will allow me, because Mr Katrugalos has asked for the floor for a minute to reply to the Minister, to give him the floor, and I will then give the floor to you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u75	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u77	Dear Minister, as you know, the decisions of the Council of State have considered the core of the reform to be constitutional, these decisions and even verbatim are a system that restores trans-national justice. You have rightly said that there are the four cases in which there have been unconstitutionalities. The first of these concerns supplementary pensions and their reductions. Additional pensions are not a nuclear element of the reform. It is not about reform, but about the Memorandum obligations of the time, the result of the third Memorandum which was passed by the New Democracy. I am very pleased that these cuts, which do not correspond in any way to the core of the reform, have been reversed. We would never have brought them if we had a free hand choice and did not have anything to do with the characteristics of the reform. As to the rate of replacement I tried to prove beforehand that they were even higher in the respective tiles, which we are discussing in relation to the previous law. The initial replacement rates we have proposed in the Troika negotiations were indeed higher than those proposed by the government in this case, but they were not accepted during the negotiation phase, and our main aim was then to protect the income of 90% of the workers, and that is why we accepted at the end of the negotiation an escalation in the percentages that did not guarantee such high pensions at the highest wage levels, given that we wanted to protect, especially in view of the situation, the protection of the incomes of the middle class and the low wages. I personally do not see the improvement in the replacement rates as a negative development, but the government must admit that it was precisely because the implementation of the reform and the reversal of deficits in surplus created the financial area so that it could do so. You could not have done this if you had inherited the EUR 1 billion deficit that we inherited and the failure to actually pay pensions at the end of each month if we did not get the money from the ESS, because that was practically the case until the application of the insurance reform. Finally, for the free professions, the special arrangements for the professions and for what has been considered unconstitutional: I do not agree with this decision of the Council of State, I consider it to be wrong legal. What was judged to be unconstitutional was the absolute correlation between the free professions and the employees in terms of the rate of income capacity. The rule of insurance reform was simple, 20% we must give the Single Insurance Fund from every source of employment income. I think it is right to regulate it. I think the opposite version of the Council of State is wrong. This did not mean that the government had to implement what it is doing now, the great injustice to the detriment of many, the great injustice to the detriment of employees. Already Mrs Ahtsoglou as Minister, perhaps providing that the decision of the Council of State could have been directed towards that, had she changed the rates of contributions of the free professionals in such a way as to satisfy the rationale of the decision of the Council of State even if I do not think it is right. However, I think that the most complete reversal of what the Minister says does not come from me, comes from the previous EDITORI EDITORI, which said simply once again what I am saying again, that gifts seem to be given to some, gifts that destabilise the stability of the insurance system in the long term - that is what Kathiemeni says - and I am also saying in a way of social unfairness, which is of benefit to the few of them again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u79	Madam President, at this time I have been waiting for about five years, but my colleague has been hit. I'm glad you're here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u80	I hurt, but I'm here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u81	...and yesterday I defended this to colleagues who said you were missing. I was waiting for it, because a comparison had to be made once in this Chamber, so the world would know what we are saying before Mr. Katrugalos, Mrs. Ahtsoglou and Mr. Tsakalotos were people who were not the instigators of a draft insurance law that will come to Parliament and will claim originality, sustainability and recompense. As far as unconstitutionalism is concerned, Mr. Katrugale, sotto voce, lower. You were judged by the Council of State by a number of anti-constitutional provisions and by my own law, at the worst time, not even half was judged, even though they were all checked. And you, when you have the Scientific Service of the Parliament, Mr Brutsi, have to make comments on anti-constitutionality, you must keep lower when addressing the Civic Opposition. Now there are three issues...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u82	...my location...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u83	At the Civic Opposition to you, when he tells you about unconstitutionality. Listen to me, Mr. Comrade. There are three topics which allow comparisons, of course, that we are talking about the most difficult issue facing the Hellenic Republic, together with all the countries of the world, at least those that produce 90% of world GDP. Studies are specific, they are recent. The insurance systems have debts, they have funding deficits of 13.5 trillion dollars and, therefore, making the smart guy with this international and Greek environment, is very dangerous and certainly not useful to the people. As far as the employment of pensioners is concerned: I am very concerned, because many people who are retired feel prosperous and want to work or have many needs - due to unemployment in family members - and want to work to meet them financially. To these people, Mr. Katrugale, for the new pensioners you made 60% reduction in their pension when they work.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u84	Thirty-five.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u85	In my own arrangement, I distinguished between employees and freelance professionals. I made a distinction with regard to the cuts of more than EUR 1,000, so that we could get together and not say, me and Mr Kutrumanis, because as a political twin, we worked in the hardest conditions for Greece with deficits of 15.6% a year and with the debts of the insurance funds towards hospitals and, in general, deficits of billions. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, your regulation was unfair and it is unfair and this regulation is going to reduce all without discrimination on income, i.e. pension levels, the EUR 1,000 or any other amount to be fixed by the government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will need another minute. As far as contributions are concerned: I agree with your proposal and as a professional I know what I will do, I know what to choose. But yesterday I made the point that the financial figures are problematic for a man who wants to pay EUR 560 - I told you yesterday - he retired, a professional, self-employed person - and to cover what he gave, not to get a reward, to'refresh' that we are saying - and apologise for the term - takes twenty years in the other world, perhaps not in the present. You have that weakness. And thirdly, as far as subsidiary is concerned. Here, Minister - and I told you yesterday - I did not hear all of your speech - I would have liked to have a clear explanation of why you are passing on to the ECA the single fund that we had for the subsidiary, abolishing all prospects of occupational insurance, i.e. by abolishing the second pillar. It is an open question, this question awaits you, and I cannot understand how you will explain it to me, not formally, that they are not going to be abolished, simply going to the ECA, but essentially on the basis of the fact that the four professionals are running impeccably and that you are going to an ECA - which I say is elegantly and politely - has many administrative problems. I have one issue - and I do not have time to do so, I shall refer to another stage of the meeting - the rates of replacement, which comparisons show the people's friends, not the words, the comparisons with the legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u86	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u87	Madam President, I take the floor because I would like to answer Mr Loverdos the important and critical question he raised. Unfortunately, we did not meet in the Chamber twice when I analyzed what we are trying to do, Mr Loverdos. I would therefore like to reiterate to all the sides of the House that what we are doing is to continue an effort initiated by Mrs Petralia, the Minister of the New Democracy, it continued with you with the EIB and the combination of the subsidiary funds, and I maintained and made economies of scale through ELIO and IDU unifications of all systems, continued by SYRIZA with the unification of the thirteen funds that existed under the ECA and now this project is completed. It shall be completed with the administrative, organisational and operational consolidation only, under the new e-ECA that will become digitalised, the functions of the two remaining insurers, the EIF of the subsidiary and the single. This does not prevent, Mr Loverdos, his autonomous presence under the umbrella of e-ECA that will give and create: first, economies of scale very important. We'll have savings that will bring to the House through buildings that stop renting. Secondly, it will strengthen the human resources, the employees who will now have more and more effective activities in the award of pensions. It has been explained yesterday that for a retired person who needs to get the subsidiary and the main pension out of his own account, one will now be dealing with one for one. And thirdly, in the crucial question you raise about the professional funds, I would like to say that I am their defender and me and the New Democracy. In 2012-2014, I remind you that I pushed four professional funds with their creation. They had opened up to George Koutrumanis as Minister and now I tell you that next month a bill on the professional funds to which I want your support has been entered, since you defend it. I want your support for the professional funds that we are defending and is the second pillar which New Democracy and the Government and I personally defend strongly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u88	Me too, Minister. Mr Marcos has the floor for seven minutes from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, all the recent empirical data confirm the assumption that the New Democracy is decisively instigating the marketing of education, the social security system, the bodies managing public goods such as water resources, energy, as well as the promotional benefits. That's clear. At the same time, it intensifies and strengthens the mechanisms and practices of discipline and repression in order to target and control social protests. We saw the horrific incident of the threat of a police officer with a weapon within the AACC the day before yesterday, as well as the last dramatic incidents on the islands. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, your missionary, the District Chief Mouszouris has already mourned the Prime Minister politically, but also your entire state as a whole. That would be the last thing to worry us about. What is worrying about us is that the problem is social and pan-Hellenic, and that is why we do not feel at all happy. We have tabled our calm contribution to this reflection of dealing with it. But you are now in this sad treaty. Because parliamentary democracy is based on the principle of representation and your existence in power depends on popular sovereignty, you are constantly forced to play the game with the wolf, disguised in a well-qualified grandmother, and in Kokinoskowica. When you are in security status, audiences that are able to hear correspondingly or to your friendly journalists, you are comfortable confessing to your class hatred for popular strata. You are characterizing yourself as hard neoliberals, you are talking about Pinochet insurance, you are increasingly asking a smaller state, you are still proud of Thacher policies, as the top Minister told you on TV about football. But when you feel that you are addressing your wider social and electoral audience without mediation, then you are forced to play hideout with your own beliefs. And in that sense I really feel sorry for you. With regard to the social security system, you are constantly showing yourself up logically and abuse the legal issues that exist. At first, you turned your entire propaganda talentedly against the establishment of the single insurance institution, the ECA, and against the connection of the contribution to income, obviously because it introduced a more socially fair system. This objection for a long time maintained the confession of one of the reasons why the review did not close in 2014. You have failed to implement structural reforms, one of which was EVA. Its operation, however, turned its funds into surpluses and made the necessary treaty out of the Memorandum, while the Council of State justified its existence. You did not want the poor farmer's fund to be helped, which is difficult in relation to the surplus fund, to be united for everyone. But today, not only do you change it, but you have to say in the name of the single fund, to include supplementary insurance with a single objective, in order to answer the question raised by KINAL. You want to hide the single insurance under the single body, to abolish it in a second phase. You misinform the Greek people, along with supposedly ignorance of some journalists, that the connection of the contribution to income was considered unconstitutional and therefore enter the old classes. The Council of State says exactly the opposite, that it is constitutional. You have not really brought political arguments, precisely why you do not want this connection. Do you not want it, why is a basic aspect of the social state being sustainable? The Council of State found our original option to be contrary to the constitutional principle of recompense in 2016 to protect the lowest and medium-sized incomes. It was a conscious choice then. Immediately afterwards, when we gained budgetary freedom, we also lightened the biggest ones. And yet, there was a strong minority of the supreme canceler who judged our original motion for a Constitution - spoke to Mr Katrugalos - based on the principle of solidarity, a principle which was interpreted by the Constitution, and we proposed that we should make it an explicit choice, but voted against it. We are proud of these proposals, of their social character. It should be noted that, in the case of the Council of State, social solidarity has taken precedence over the rewarding principle. You, finally in line with the court - because this is a Parliament, and you cannot dissociate legal inaccuracies that the Minister has repeated earlier, fanatical fan of distortion, a obvious wolf with a grandma's ambiguousness - could increase the rate of replacement for large incomes by either reducing their contributions or increasing their pensions. On the contrary, you chose to reduce the rate of replacement for young people by increasing insurance contributions for 85% of the free trades. You are unnecessarily giving yourself, without any decision being binding on you - fortunately, letters and law, it is well known - the possibility of higher incomes to choose freely the lowest social security contribution. They will turn to you-friendly private insurance companies to complete their pension without the social pressing need for the return and solidarity of incomes and generations. It has been mentioned for you that this will make them taxly honest. Do you think this is a serious tax policy? Do you not want there to be another basic aspect of the social state? You have not taken into account the fair demands of the National Disabled Persons' Confederation, such as not reducing supplementary pensions and the one-handedness of disabled persons or implementing disability pensions under the Katrugalos Act or including the disabled in the granting of a reduced pension, the one you reserve to your qualified pensioners and you have included them. I would like to close by saying a few words about the 'writing movement' mentioned earlier by representatives of the extreme right-wing component of the New Democracy just now in this Chamber. After the body of lawyers was mobilized by your friendly lawyers under your incitement to an exterior abstention of six months, you have created expectations of something better than a law that has already maintained thousands of young scientists in the profession. But the free traders are, ladies and gentlemen, very strict in numbers. They have already measured the cost that that rebel dock of large offices cost them and expected changes that they know to calculate accurately subdivision. Of course, the lawyers were the only union body - to answer the Minister too - who did not participate in the recent general strike on insurance. This proves their dependence on your government. But this will not stand in the way of general discontent from the increased burdens you hold most. In closing, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the core of the objection to the neoliberal way of thinking is that people who have fewer resources than others without their own fault, but because of social rules do not have reasonable opportunities to satisfy their preferences. It may be that the temporary unacceptable reality of many times does not allow us who believe in social justice to bring more relief to these people. You are blaming us then because we are violating our principles. It's your old man you're carrying. You are confusing your consciences, such as social security for the entire period. In the science of psychology this is called projection, when the individual renders himself into some other qualities and this is a defensive mechanism. You're in this position. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, too. I will give the floor for a minute to the Minister, Mr Mitarakis, for the amendment he has tabled, and immediately thereafter to the President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mrs Gennamas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to support the amendment by a general number of 185 and a specialist of 30. Due to the re-establishment of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum, this amendment establishes a technical service at the Ministry, unified smaller service structures already in existence at the Ministry, managed the service, defines the creation of a technical board so that it can supervise projects required by the Ministry in a way that we can be more effective in our work. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too, Minister. Here, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the administration of the refugee - immigration from the government is a holocaustyl of zero and governmental alalum continues. You failed, gentlemen of the government. And I wonder, where are the perfect ones? Where are your "heavy" transcriptions? You should finally understand that with violence, conflicts, authoritarianism, cheques and MATs you do not solve the problem of the islands, you are simply creating a new crisis. Already in your days, the enclaves have increased considerably. And I would suggest that you show it in Europe where you are speechless, willing and given, and not to the desperate and indignant islanders. With the policy and the Tsipras commitments attached to Mrs Merkel's chariot and handed over the keys to Erdogan, there is no solution. What are you doing today? You are turning a European problem into a national tragedy and our islands into a storeroom of souls. Memorandum of incapacity and inefficiency. So leave egos and authoritarianism, because the hybris brings the nemesis. These unprecedented events of conflict and violence, at last, must abide by you. Dismantle the islands here and now and change policy. Our proposals, which we have tabled on a timely basis from this Step, are always on the table and we insist and are here. It is a very serious issue of national importance and requires national understanding. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] And I come, ladies and gentlemen, to the insurance we are discussing today, and I read two - three lines: 'The existing system runs out of its limits. The system is unfair. It's doubtful if it's viable. It will be abolished and replaced by a new and sustainable insurance system’. They're not my words. Those are Mr. Mitsotakis' last year's words. The announcements and promises that Mr Tsipras had made this year, as he did in the economy and the immigration - refugee, as I said earlier, in our national issues, as well. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] You are not abolishing, gentlemen of the government, the notorious law of Katrugalu. You're just making makeup for him. The law lives and reigns. It's just changing name and now we can easily call him the Katorugalo - Brutsi. Anyone who still has doubts about this, only has to read the recent opinion of the Court of Auditors' plenary and will understand that the provisions simply adapt to the decisions of the Council. This is not an insurance reform. What will the Change Movement do? We remain faithful to our election announcements. We had already said to the House that the Katrugalou law is not corrected, abolished. We have voted against the Katorugalou law, we are also voting against the Katorugalo - Brutsi law. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, what really happens with the law of the government? First, pensions are reduced. It attempts to "leaf" and implement the Katrugalou law, instead of the abolition, which reduces the overall amount of pensions significantly, about 15%, because the low rates of supplementation it contains are practically maintained. A characteristic example. If the 2010 PASOK Act were to apply, the pension of an insured person with thirty-five years and a monthly pension pay of EUR 1,500 would be EUR 873. The Katorugalou law is down to 780 euros. I'm filing the comparator board. [[At this point the President of the Movement of Change, Mr. Fotini (Phot) Gennamata, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Secondly, the way is open for the abolition of the sectors of assistance and a one-off one-off one-off. With the provision for integration of the EIF into the EFKA, the prospect of the development of the professional funds disappears. The way to establish a purely capitalisation system and to remove the social character of the insurance is open. Thirdly, the adaptation to the decisions of the EBRD. It is based on the logic of 'take from one hand to share with the other'. For those with more than thirty, thirty and two years of insurance, the small increase in the replacement rates applies only to sixty-five thousand insured persons. For the other five hundred thousand of this category, the increase will be offset by the corresponding reduction in their personal differences. This is a freeze, not an increase in pensions for many years. Until then, the difference must be zeroed. The decision of the S.R.E. shall apply. to increase ancillary services. But the small benefit for people who saw their pension reduced by 50% from 1-1-2016. What about the worst? These micro-interventions are made by unacceptable settling of amounts, which were, in any case, intended for them precisely the pensioners themselves. Reduction of pensions, strengthening of the private character of insurance and mockery for pensioners. This is the situation as much as the government's 'false' attempts to vouch for it. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's intervention in insurance is declining the deep conservative logic of the New Democracy. There is no provision for a lower or lower guaranteed income for pensioners. Any prospect of payment of a third normal pension for all pensioners is removed. It essentially maintains the injustices created by the Katrugalu Act on disability and widow’s pensions, as well as on the pensions of the relatives from Albania and Pontto. Even that well-advertised small reduction in contributions is at the expense of the unemployed from the resources of the OAED intended for employment programmes and especially young people. We don't just stick to the findings. We proceeded to acts. We tabled an amendment to our parliamentary group which provides for the re-appointment of a normal 15th pension for all pensioners... [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] ...the introduction of a minimum guaranteed income for pensioners, as well as the new CSCE, the elimination of injustices for pensioners, the abolition of health contributions to supplementary pensions, the extension of heavy and unhealthy pensions to the public and, in particular, to hospitals and the abolition of a reduction in the national pension of relatives from Albania and Pontto. We call on the government to accept it and the parties to support it. We shall all be judged by this attitude towards the citizens. The State's interventions, ladies and gentlemen, cannot only concern the few and strong ones. And I come to the part of the bill on the functioning of the FBI. Unfortunately, I have had the opportunity to see in my recent visit the very difficult conditions prevailing in his services: great shortages in staff, unacceptable shortages in the software needed to issue pensions and particularly for particularly sensitive accusations. Pension delays give rise to situations of shame and unbelievable suffering for the citizens. The responsibilities of the SYRIZA governments are really great, but they cannot be an alibi, especially when you choose to follow the exact same path, repeating everything. On 21-12-2018 the outstanding main pensions were a hundred and two thousand nine hundred. At 31-12-2019 the outstanding pensions were one hundred and fifty thousand four hundred ninety-five, 50% increased. And yet there is no single benefit and insurance regulation between the eight funds that have merged into one. It's time this disgrace stops. To strengthen the ECA by means of staff, with modern infrastructure and, of course, with a single benefit and insurance regulation. To issue outstanding pensions as soon as possible. This is normal: efficacy. Everything else is air words. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, one more chance is lost today. An opportunity for real reform, an opportunity to create together - parties, employers, workers, operators - a fair and sustainable system with a long-term horizon. But for us, for the Change Movement, the subject is not closed. Because it is certain that this plan will lead to new deadlocks and new interventions will be required. And I repeat that it is necessary as never before for national dialogue to achieve our goal. And our goal is double: justice and dignity for retired people and guarantee the future for the new generation of our country. But that, as I have often stressed, requires three major assumptions. The first is that in the country we will cause a growth explosion with new investments, innovation and new jobs. That's always our first concern. That is why we are talking about employment clauses in every public service contract with private individuals, so we are saying that tax relief cannot involve dividends and profits, but investment, innovation and the creation of new jobs. Secondly, we will tackle the demographic crisis drastically. He's threatening our future. When are we finally gonna figure it out? We have voted on some provisions that are in a positive direction. But it's not enough. It's too few. We need to see the findings of the committee on demographics set up following a proposal from the Change Movement. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] And I would remind you that we have tabled a comprehensive proposal for a law with the first step of giving the couple EUR 200 a month for three years for every young child born, in addition to other benefits, not competitive. Third assumption that we will bring new resources to the system. We have shown, ladies and gentlemen, by our proposal for the Generation Solidarity Fund, which has also become a state-law, where new resources can be raised for the insurance system, as has been done in many other European countries. To abolish the excess of the sublime and to convert to the Public Property, hydrocarbons and mineral wealth rating fund of the country. From its revenue we can finance the insurance and provide incentives for investment, but also for environmental actions. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our resignation that supports the public social character of insurance, which has led to decent pensions and has established the CSCE. It is our prolongation that proceeded with the major reforms concerning insurance: e-prescription, the Disability Certification Centres, the EEAS, the integration of the subsidiary. It is our sideline that has shown with L.3863/2010 that we can in practice link the necessary remuneration of the contributions with the support of the weaker ones, thus ensuring the viability of the system. We continue on the same road, always open to new changes that meet the challenges of the times. Only one thing we do not negotiate: the responsibility of the state to ensure a public, social, insurance system that guarantees dignity to all citizens. And we will fight with all our forces to do this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theory they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the Parliament, and toured to the exhibition of the Ethics "ENIZELOS", thirty-three students and students and two teachers from the 1st New Smyrna High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Today, the House is discussing something that will directly concern you in fifty years' time, as I estimate: pensions. Mr. Zabeck Hussein is now called to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the children will not be threatened with the new insurance that they are coming to and make it possible for them to retire. Since the beginning of your governance, we have noticed the alarming signs of the demolition of the social state and demolition of all the positive provisions brought by the SYRIZA government. In the last few days, however, we have been following the climax of your wrong politicians through chaos on the islands, police arbitrariness in the Greek universities, health insecurity and your new insurance bill, for which you are taking it, without understanding why. Over the years, you have opposed the bad insurance of SYRIZA and said that the next reform of insurance would consist of reduced contributions to freelance professionals, increases in pensions and maintenance of the thirteenth pension. Starting with the contributions, we see that there are increases for 90% of the free professions and the minimum contribution of EUR 185 is up to EUR 220. The increase shall be accompanied by the reintroduction of the class system. The linking of contributions to income was a political option to share the burdens of social security on an equal basis and according to the possibilities of each citizen. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Restoration of classes means that everyone can choose which class to enter and therefore what will be its contribution to the insurance system. This is a purely biased choice. First of all, it favours large incomes, which can pay lower insurance contributions, even in the lowest-class. Thus, they will not contribute according to their possibilities, but they may turn the amounts in question towards private insurance. With this option, the government manages to "with one forum of two birds". On the one hand, it must not force having to pay according to their possibilities and, on the other, to deduct resources from social security. After all, the undermining and undermining of the public social security system is a basic target of the Government of New Democracy. The puzzle, of course, is supplemented by the pension reductions. The expenditure of the 2020 State Budget on pensions is reduced by EUR 200 million, reduced by 2040. The main and horizontal change is the definitive abolition of the 15th pension to pensioners. This was an additional pension for pensions up to EUR 500 and proportionally allocated for the rest. This measure to remind the SYRIZA government and New Democracy supported it. The only increases you bring concern new pensioners, i.e. after the 2016 Act, with thirty years of insurance, while the increases in subsidiary concern only old pensioners with a sum of more than EUR 1300. In total, one out of ten pensioners will see a small increase and ten out of ten a large cut by abolishing the thirteenth pension. After 2012, then, and the first cut in the 15th pension, the same Minister retires it in 2020 in a period without memoranda. Minister, in my question under Protocol No 2462/6-12-2019, we have put you together with many of SYRIZA's colleagues the problem in calculating special pension cases, i.e. the insured, successive pensions and disability pension conversions. The problem has arisen as a result of the delay in the delivery of the pension calculation software. As you can see, this is a matter for many of our fellow citizens and you cannot be deceptive and not answer our question after so long. I ask you again: When will you solve this serious problem which is afflicting many of our fellow citizens? Returning to the bill, I would like to stress that any insurance reform or pension change should be accompanied by a structured framework for work. In fact, logic says that first you make the country's working life, you reduce unemployment, you defend labour acquired in order to make it work, and then you deal with the insurance system and pensions. You've done away with reason. With your choices in the work these seven months of governance you have hit the insurance industry as well. You lowered the Labour Inspectorate. You showed favor to systemic offenders and closed your eyes to large businesses to violate labour rights by putting a bomb and the foundations of insurance. I shall therefore refer to the case of Thrace's casino. Last Monday, the casino address sent letters to about eighty employees from the region of Xanthi and informed them that it would cut a number of benefits earned through business collective labour contracts between 2003 and 2010. The cuts start from 10% to 35% and the average reduction per employee is estimated to be approximately 20%. Illegal reductions in workers' wages, combined with non-payment of wages, lead them and their families to a particularly difficult economic position. At the same time, non-compliance with the formal consultation procedure with workers is arbitrary and contempt for the constitutional right of trade unions. Moreover, the reduction in the wages of workers automatically brings with it a reduction in contributions to the ECA. In October 2019, your Government abolished the provision of Law 4512/2018, where in case of a delay in paying employees' salaries to casinos more than thirty days later, the casino's license was revoked for a period of two months. The only such case was that of Thrace Casino, where payroll is still not paid. And here, we are asking ourselves: why is this privileged treatment to this businessman? In the last few days, we have been reading in the press that the Ministry of Labour will legislate a provision for debt haircut to the FBI. Will the provision include casino owners who have not paid contributions to the FBI for decades? If so, what will you say about this to those who have been deprived to be consistent with their obligations? I close by saying that today's insurance bill you brought to Parliament you say it will be viable by 2070. Do you really think wage cuts and increased flexible forms of employment will be able to support the sustainability of the insurance system? We believe that both fair burden-sharing and ensuring decent conditions and supporting work can make our insurance system sustainable. And with today's bill, you seem not to pursue its viability, but your will to destroy it and open the door to private insurance, as you did with education and health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition "The Greek Parliament - the one-way stations of nearly two hundred years" organized by the Foundation of Parliament eighteen students and two teachers from Rallio Gymnasio of Piraeus. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister has asked for the floor to be put for a number of amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say that I accept two amendments as the Ministry of Labour. The first amendment is with Protocol No 181 and specific No 26. The second is a general figure of 185 and a special number of 30. These are ministerial amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u98	Good. Mrs Sia Anagnastopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, much has been said these days. Our rapporteur, our Parliamentary spokesman, other speakers from our parliamentary group, Mr Katrugalos this morning raised our concerns about this bill. So I won't stand too much. I just want to start from what Mr Brutsis said on the first day, that this is a historic bill that creates a break and partition. And I would like to ask: where is the incision? And, above all, where is the historical nature of the bill? If we take Greece's insurance system in its history, we will see the pathogens that this system had, the passions of customers' character, the analgesia, class division, which led to the destruction of the funds, of course, along with the Memorandum of Pension Reductions Policy, PSI in the Insurance Funds, etc. I just want to remind you of one thing that almost never sounds in this country. At the moment of the country's largest growth, the unemployment fund was the lowest that existed throughout Europe. If this does not show an analgesia towards the invisible and marginalized society, what does it show? An insurance system to be an incision must ensure long-term sustainability, because it ensures social cohesion and the redistributive nature of the insurance system, but above all transgenic people's solidarity and we must insist very much on it. This requires a few things for the long-term system to be viable. It requires a model of growth, a tax system, mechanisms for redistributing wealth, policies to combat unemployment, policies to protect working life and tackle the demographic problem. Tell me in the seven months government of the New Democracy and your Ministry, Mr. Brutsi, which of these causes are being dealt with? Not only are they being treated, but these are the reasons which are being strengthened and which lead to undermining the viability of the insurance system. Not only does your system of insurance, which is introduced to a vote in this House, but I would say that the release of the burden-sharing capacity, the real ability of an employee to make a contribution to insurance, when it is not regulated by the state, and when we have the reintroduction of the classes where everyone pays what they want, where we have redistribution and where we have a solidarity, which is solidarity and between the different classes? Nowhere at all! I will, however, stay on one thing here alone, on the thirteenth pension, to which we have given special weight. The demographic problem has nothing to do with infertility - infertility. It is very much about dealing with the state of the third age, the elderly people. Good life in elderly people is a major factor in demographics. The thirteenth pension, which mainly concerned low-pension workers, has to do with demographics, but also with other things. If you see all the statistics before the crisis and much more during the crisis, where poverty hit too much was in elderly people and then in children. When old people are not protected to have a good life, apart from the moral issue "what they gave, they have contributed, and so on," the state must return them, there is another very important issue. Young people are also charged with changing their working life. Therefore, the introduction of the thirteenth pension as a permanent measure rather than a measure which was a subsidy, was very important in this perspective. You are not facing the most important problem for pensions, for insurance, which is nomadicism. Tell me with what he predicted and brought and legislated the Ministry of Labour and even five minutes before the House closed, where is the job nomadicism being dealt with? Everyone, the largest journalists - I am not talking about economic scientists - say that if this is not tackled, we are not going to have a sustainable statistical system. Unemployment, the mortal wound to the body of society, how is it treated? I would like to close by getting away from insurance to go to another issue, and it is about refugee - immigration. I won't tell you what happened these days. We've all seen them. The islanders lived a lot longer. I will not say about trespassing moral and democratic principles. I will say, however, that by allowing the extreme right-wing voices to prevail within it for voting reasons, we have come to designate islanders as human guardians of refugees and migrants. Do you know where this refers? In the dark times of this country, which we must avoid. And when the islanders reacted because they don't want to be human guards, when the MATs fell up, the state repression. You have the self-government to play the dunes of the far-right rhetoric, and now we all find it against us. I will not try at all to say that some far-right voices on the islands are right. What matters, however, is that all the citizens of this country understand that when the rights of the weakest are affected - and refugees and immigrants are the weakest - then the rights of all of us will be affected when we get to the point of resisting what is coming. What's left behind in the islands? Cracked, uprooted souls of migrants and refugees and rattled societies. When a government builds busted societies, we'll all pay for it. Cracked societies are island societies right now. In order not to make the entire Greek society undisturbed once again, as after bankruptcy, it is time for the New Democracy to recover and listen to those who managed with a human mark - and the human sign is deeply political - a reality rather than a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u100	Mr Papadopoulos Athanasios has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u101	The supposedly insurance reform of the New Democracy, which was supposed to have come to stay during Mr. Brutsi, is another clear proof of the distance of theory and of action in the government policy of the New Democracy, but also of its socially unjust class division. It is another area of disquiet about the election announcements that bring the New Democracy to an end with those who expected that the promises he made would reflect on the policies being implemented. It is not only anger felt by the inhabitants of Lesbos, Samos, Chios and the islands for the provocatively unacceptable way of dealing with the refugee - immigration problem and the government's commitments to decongestion of the islands. It is not only the anger felt by the citizens who see that the 2020 budget, the measures taken by the government, the choices it makes, the defence of its first home, the bills voted by the government majority substantiate the denial. It is mainly the belief that even the narrow audience of the New Democracy - its members, the free professionals, the employees, the middle-class it supposedly would help, the mayors he elected - are beginning to say that he no longer trusts the Government of the New Republic, while the Regional Governor of the North Aegean - with extreme events, of course - expresses indignation and his and the inhabitants of the islands about how the government is automatically facing a serious problem. This government behaviour will multiply, ladies and gentlemen, the 'Muzouris'. This is also made clear in the insurance reform that New Democracy is supposed to be doing. The central problem of the bill is that it is not a reform of the new era for the country, the fourth industrial revolution, the artificial intelligence, the new data on the Greek economy, the recovery that Mr Stakoras spoke about this morning, the new possibilities that exist at a time when creditors can no longer blackmail for the anti-grassroots internal devaluation measures, cannot blackmail to reduce the state participation in the insurance system, for choices of extreme neoliberal logic on the issues of the social state in Greece, labour and fundamental rights, the social security system. The logic of the draft law is identical to the logic of the Golden Boys of lenders and reveals in the field of insurance contributions and pensions what is a classic monopolies of the New Democracy. It does not take into account the long-term bleeding of resources, the reserves of the insurance funds, the need to gradually replace and strengthen them for their sustainability, the justice of the socio-security system, the solidarity of the generations, proportionality, redistribution, replacement, the granting of the tenth pension, the dignity of the pensioners of today and tomorrow, since the children are watching what we are doing here in this House. It does not take into account the interventions which can be made to reduce unemployment, the increase in stable employment, the abolition of black labour and tax evasion, the increase in lower basic wages, the treatment of demographics, the return to Greece of the gifted young people who have had to emigrate. It does everything that gives rise to the wealthy and private insurance companies, creates an insurance consciousness of the lower scale and of recourse to the private insurance system. It is a bill that is contrary to the mature, progressive reforms, which lead to fair and sustainable growth focusing on labour forces. To conclude, however, let us say that quality improvements to Law4387/2016, which had commemorative burdens and not, of course, communist payments, as some people were raped to describe them, can only be made by a government of programme convergence of all the progressive powers. In this, with what we have heard in here, the amendment - an addition to a fair insurance system put forward by KINAL - also contributes to the proposals made by MERA25 and the JRC. And we are in a line that unites the progressive forces for the mature areas that we must do in the new period for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u102	We will give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitris Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, the changes of governments over the years and the laws on insurance that were succeeding from one another have strengthened the attack on insurance, pension rights, the full change of any social security status that had been left, brought in and strengthened the direction for professional funds and private insurance companies. A separate report has been made by all the imperialist organisations, the International Monetary Fund, the OECD, the European Commission, but also by Greek employers' organisations, such as BSE, for the huge contribution of the SYRIZA law, the Katrugalos law, the privatisation of the insurance system, to the implementation of the changes they want to promote since the early 1990s to abolish this great conquest of workers. The current goal of the New Democracy is to implement the Katrugalu law and not to abolish it. He wants to improve even from legal gaps and put him in life to deliver the funds' reserves to the fingernails of private insurance companies and the famous investors of the capital market. The aim is to relieve the great employer of the obligation, which it had legally defined, to return part of the stolen goodwill through contributions to the socio-security system. The contribution of both workers and employers is a wage. Employers from the work of workers who were employed, took off what they gave. From this they want to get rid of, by decisively reducing the 'non-wage costs', as they call it. This development opens the way for the final blow and the formation of an insurance policy, where access will be available if you have to pay. In this direction, with a strong area of profitability, the recent activities and interventions of large insurance companies, of all kinds of health dealers, have been concentrated. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known to all of us that the overthrows of social security rights have started for many years. The first time that the word "anti-efficiency" appeared was in 1992 by the law Sifa. Then followed the Yannitsi bill, the Reppa Law, the Petrol Act, the changes of Kutruman, Brutsi, the overthrow of the Katrugalou law. The list is long and the wounds are large. The insurance brought by the Government of New Democracy is not a new proposal, as it is presented. It has been discussed several times in the past, it has been the subject of previous 'committees of Wise Men' and it is condensed from now on that: Workers are forced throughout their lives to pay endless contributions from their wages and taxes, that is, they are doing and doing all these years, but in the end they will not know what they will get and whether they will get, because the parameters they go in are related to the investment of these contributions and the returns they give. A series of media, advancing the territory of this new attack, continue to talk today about decisions by the Council of State which, allegedly, demolish the Katorugalos law, claiming that officials of the New Democracy are also present. But the truth is quite different. The decisions of the Council of State accept and legitimise the whole core of the law and its architecture. Particularly revealing is the content of the proportional study accompanying the new bill. Apart from the legalisation of all overturns at the expense of pensioners and insured persons over the last decade, i.e. overturning the huge cuts in basic and supplementary pensions, the removal of the thirteenth, fourteenth, the increase in the age limits to sixty-seven, the increase from thirty-five to forty-two years of work on the right to full pension, the proportionate study, which has been the basis of the new Katrugalo-Brutsis law, brings and highlights new, aggressive aspects. Firstly, continuing to reduce state funding, day after day, year after year, which can easily make us say that the state with light - let's say this - abandons the support of any public social security. Secondly, in order for the insurance system to serve viability for capital to be adapted to the increase in life expectancy. More specifically, since 2024, with a reference point at the age of sixty-five years, there is a gradual increase in the age limits by one whole year, resulting in an increase in the age limits beyond the sixty-seventh year in force, so that they can be shaped into the sixty-nine and reach 2066, in any case, in the seventh year. Thirdly, the study of the National Analogue Authority itself cancels government claims and all propaganda the government that preceded it, on pension increases. The total cost for the main pensions in 2020 is reduced by EUR 1,037,000 compared to last year, with the total loss for this year alone amounting to EUR 676,000. Ladies and gentlemen, the Katorugalou law, which is the basis of the new government proposal, has defined not only the present pensioners but also the conditions of insurance for the next 50 years. Everyone can understand the great reduction in pensions from changing the method of calculation. Over the past decade, pensions were calculated at a rate of 80% of the pension, usually the last wage. The change in the method of calculating pensions led to rates of replacement of less than 40% of the pension wage, which is now calculated on the average of the whole working life. We are concentrating clearly and dobra on the great crime that is taking place for today and especially for future generations, young people and young people working in disgraceful terms. In all the data tables we have read and seen in the last few days, reports focused on workers with more than thirty and close to forty years of insured work. The workers who today are close to the age of forty, but especially the younger, those who today make the first cuts to production, meet and meet the biggest deadlocks in terms of insurance and pension rights. And because workers don't find you in the workplace, but also because in the various TV panels and in the press, you avoid this conversation like the devil the ink, we ask you: What young worker who has come out of production in the years of the crisis, which is today twenty-five years old, will he be able to have forty years of work? Who will have thirty-five years' work when registered unemployment over the years is stable over a million? Which young worker, who has eaten the spoon layoffs all these years, who has worked on all forms of flexible work and wandered from work to work, will he have the 12 thousand badges? The amount of the pension is based mainly on two main parameters, on the rates of replacement made by each government over the years of insurance and pension pay. So what pension will the workers who saw at one night in 2012 have the minimum wage at EUR 586 and at 511 the younger? What pension will workers who over the years have been paid a salary of between EUR 250 and 400 for four-and-a-half hours of work? The rates of replacement for this very large part of the workers, which is the future of our country's working class, have left them unannounced. It's exactly the same as the Katorugalou law. To all these children, who today may aspire to abide by 15, or twenty, twenty-five years of work and wages from 500 to 700 euros, do you know what a reward pension you are making with the laws you are making? Of course you know, but you're hiding it. They will take 60 euros to 100 euros. In other words, the final pension amount will be close to the lousy amount of the national pension that you guarantee, that is, the EUR 345 to EUR 384 that is today. You do everything you can to turn the new workers to the insurance companies, which are like caradokun crows on top of them. I'll see you later. Ladies and gentlemen, in front of us we have a plan to fight against total privatization of social security. This system with the three pillars is not an innovation of the current government, it comes from far away and has a long journey. The insurance plan of the three pillars was described as the Mercedes of the insurance systems by José Piniera, the secretary of insurance for the blood of the Chilean junta. It is the same model that supported the Yannitzi bill, which was left on paper at the time under the grand strike movement of workers. All of us together, New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA, took the Pinochet system, as the SYRIZA elections were pro-electionally called, changed the word "stylovals" and made it "pillows" and that promotes successively one after another. As SYRIZA has changed the memorials, troika, to "agreements", "institutions" so now. It is well known, of course, that the Chilean model is the favourite example of the World Bank, the European Union, the IMF and all these mechanisms dealing with privatisation and demolition of social rights acquired under another international correlation at that time, from the struggle of peoples, but also from the huge offer of socialism. And let's go after him and follow him into socialism still a number of unhealthies, so we think them, who don't know where the four go. The great concern we have for the future lies now: the payment and guarantee of pensions, the overturning of age limits, the reduction of major, supplementary pensions and one-off payments, the downgraded services, and the recompense for health and welfare which transfers costs to the people's family, the occupational risk exposure, new occupational diseases, the future guaranteeing and protection of young people, who are currently massively out of production or work on worse terms, the bleeding of the funds' reserves and cash available, the unacceptablely long delay in the award of pensions. In other words, all these issues which are the heart of the insurance system and which we are seeking to form the basis for discussion today and every day from now on - regardless of today's vote - by developing parallel courses of action and claiming as a whole from all the workers, from the popular layers of cities and the countryside. Young and old rulers invoke the deficits of the funds as an excuse for bringing measures affecting insurance and pension rights at any time. None of them say that for deficits it is not the workers who are today or the retired tomorrow. Great unemployment, flexible labour relations, shattered parties, uninsured work has exacerbated the situation, but they are not the source of the problems. They avoid that the dismantling of labour relations directly affects social security as well as social security because structured employment relationships, full work, does not only provide safeguards for wage-earning work, but also supports social security. Ladies and gentlemen, subsidiary insurance has already entered the target. It is converted into an individual case of each insured person, who will have its own account at the EIF, which will now also be the account manager, as well as an investor. In other words, the EIF will now operate by placing the contributions of the funds and shares and other derivatives insured. The insured will be able to choose any investor who wants and at the same time will want to gamble their contributions at low, medium or high risk. The so-called high yields require high contributions from workers, but also high-risk products, i.e. stocks of bubbles which, when washed, lead to social impoverishment and insured and retired people. At the same time, the risk of sustainability is increasing as the EIF will be deprived of new workers' supplementary pensions for the current pensioners. So the subsidiary and current pensioners are at risk. This model in the subsidiary if circumstances, as it is said, are intended to be applied in the final part of the pension. The private insurance business groups will not give a pension as what they provide is a financial product. The premium that people will pay in these insurance companies will depend on the market with a visible risk, if not the certainty of us, not even the money they have given at the end, as is the case with the one-off one, even to lose everything, as was done with "SPAIN", for example, with dozens of other cases of rules in countries - Member States of the European Union, with the fund of workers in the Bank of Greece. The business funds, which you are repository, are a form of gambling that is supported by the current derelict leadership of the GFCM. A professional fund set up by food trade officials shall be referred to as ‘State of solvency’. No solvency margin is required as the benefits are not guaranteed by the fund.’ In short, and through the texts, from their statutes, professional funds and private insurance companies which undertake to manage the contributions, they do not commit nor guarantee the amount of pensions that must be paid in the future to the insured. This is the great reversal that is being attempted in insurance through the promotion of these schemes. Private insurance is purely speculative. It is based on market fluctuations and is subject to the law of the capitalist profit of the stock exchange groups, just like this. It is based on supply and demand, cost-benefit logic, remuneration, individual contracts for a certain benefit framework for a certain period of time with painful conditions of bleeding people's income. Apart from the known 'ENRON MAXWELL', etc. We also have a bitter experience in our country. We remind you that in spring 2009, the financial columns wrote ‘Friends of the insurance group of ‘ASP PROTOCOL’, consider that this is the most dynamic group, occupying the second place in the insurance market’. After three months the croch because of the lock-up of the insurance "SOPIS PROMOTION" made a streak throughout the country. Thousands of people affected by the paddock have so far been left with compensation. What specifically is the association of damages caused by “ASP PROMOTION”, which is set up to claim the losses suffered by the insured, mentions characteristics: “The loose ends are too many and certainly do not honor a civilised rule of law to which you lead”. In particular, ‘tens of thousands of insured persons are out of tables of beneficiaries despite the fact that no one disputes the existence of their contracts. Thousands of insurance contracts have been excluded as non-insurance products at the time the market had and has exactly the same products. The decision of the Council of State was scandalously ignored, and today tens of thousands of our fellow citizens are being dragged into courtrooms subject to bloody economic and disastrous psycho-corruption procedures for claiming self-evident. The banks threaten with first-stage seizures the holders of loan contracts with a capital guarantee by insurance companies.’ It's just the words they write. This is a typical example. We don't have to say anything more. The workers were destroyed. It is an example of the unreasonable laws on the market that all of you worship and serve with piety. Indicative is the insurance industry with the dozens of insurance companies in the years of the crisis leaving thousands of cars uninsured. These are the results of the risk we are asked to invest. But we cannot say the same about our health and the insurance of our children. Risk to these issues cannot exist. At the same time, categorisation with individual biological characteristics, the search for whether there are diseases is a criterion for the cost of private insurance and a challenge as it degrades both the personality and dignity of workers. That's only a clue here of capitalist barbarism. Besides, they don't hide it. They're cynical and very specific. They say: "If you decide, however, to make private health insurance, keep in mind that the sooner and the healthier you are when you do it the better it will be for you and for two main reasons. First, in young age, premiums are clearly lower. Secondly, as long as you grow up, the known chronic illnesses, heart, diabetes, etc. which, in addition to discharging the costs of the insurance premiums, may cause even rejection of your application for insurance.’ What do representatives of insurance advisers say? They say in particular and brands: "We usually check the medical history of the person concerned, and that is because we are trying to get healthy insured as opposed to EEAY and IKA. There are even cases in which someone can ask for insurance and for the insurance company to reject it. As long as the years pass, that becomes even more common. Insurance does not want someone who, for example, has sugar or a history of heart disease.’ They even complement that "women are more accurate than men due to having a longer life expectancy and visit doctors more frequently for standard exams, such as mastography and tests - PAP". This is considered perfectly normal for a system, however, which treats the worker and his health as a cost, but also as a field of new profitability. Ladies and gentlemen, the JRC treats social security as one of the greatest conquests of workers. Social security was not spared to anyone, it was not given to the Greek people, it was a product of many-year-old blood conflicts around the world, and with governments and major business groups in each country. With the emergence of the working class and the organization in the unions, it has made a fundamental request to create a strong grid of protection around the working family, which would relate to pay after working life, to protection against loss of work, to the protection of maternity, to disease protection and so on. The above covered social security over time as a strong support mechanism for workers, the populace. In the case of monopolies, for the government, the problem with social security is a bit of a constructional one for the other parties. They do not have the people's needs as their starting point, but their competitiveness - it says - of the economy. That is why their arguments are challengingly standing in secondary indicators, such as mismanagement, the relationship between insured persons and pensioners and so on. For all this, they are putting the blame on the working people, making it also responsible for their unemployment, for their flexible employment relationships, for the reduction of the working population, for the deficits. For the JRC, the insurance problem is classic, it is political, as the limits of this rotting system appear to be even clearer, which is in complete contrast with the fulfilment of modern folk needs. The basis of the issue of social security, as well as wages, working time, working relationships is not technical, but it is social - economic. That's why they can't be solved in this system. That is to say, it is not up to a social democrat or a neoliberal management and a recipe or a combination of them, but it requires a central scientific plan, that is, an economy that will only put up modern, enlarged people's needs against the interests of business groups. This, of course, does not mean that we are putting their solution into a vague future. The labour movement, the pension agencies are fighting today, the JRC is struggling today for the abolition of all these insurance laws that we have mentioned throughout the debate, all the Members and I have so far spoken about. This struggle today, these struggles are part of the overall JRC proposal for a different path of development, development of the Greek society, which is based on the notion that the protagonist and producer of wealth is the working people. Social security, we believe, should guarantee workers decent pensions, human care, benefits, meet the current needs of the worker, the pensioner, either in the private sector, in the public sector, or in self-employment in towns, or in rural areas. All workers and unemployed should be insured, because workers have the right to live longer years outside production, that is to say, without the hards of the labour force, to rest, to spend their time as they want, to work as they want, and not just as they demand the profitability of various groups and their political representatives, who are trying to impose compulsory employment on the deep ageing population, with the barbaric argument of active ageing, which is now coming back under another title. The JRC is struggling for public, universal, compulsory social security, to build a single system, including pension rights and health prevention and rehabilitation services, social benefits and services. We therefore propose to the Greek people the adoption of our programme, which includes the following briefly. The social security system covers the whole population, on the basis of modern needs, exploiting the potential of modern technology and science, everyone who needs it to be able to make use of all medical and social services free of charge. All levels of health are organically linked, prevention, primary, secondary, tertiary. The health system is geared to prevention, with services in the workplace, in the homes, in the training areas, within the Army. A strict health and safety framework is established at the workplace, involving and controlling workers, to deal with accidents and occupational diseases. Special state services and benefits are provided for the protection of maternity, child care and child care. Special attention is paid to people with disabilities, their families, the elderly, the long-term sufferers, the polytectes, the tritecs and the single parent families. Special funds are available in research to deal with serious diseases such as cancer, heart disease, AIDS, new coronary diseases, and I do not know what other diseases still have increased and reaping the population. It operates a state drug organisation for the production, import, control and handling of all current medicinal products, circulating on the world market. Especially for pensions, and with regard to your age limits and pension conditions, we have submitted both here and outside to workers and pensioners a specific proposal and I will not repeat them in order to get time. We trust in the power of class struggle. We're sure that the workers, the people, will take the luck into their own hands. Next to them, our party will have, with new treatments continuously, now very strongly supported in the study of past experience, with a programme that responds to the current problems of the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u104	We will now give the floor to the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like, by listening to the Secretary-General of the JRC, to remind the good friends of the Left that what he told us here internationally applies. There are funds on the planet that invest in different bonds, badly or well. If for them it's bad, it's another story. Of course, the JRC since 2007, 2008, 2009, when we were talking here about starting the oil case, and we were talking about linking mining to the insurance funds, as Norway does, and it has hundreds of billions of euros for the insurance funds, and then the JRC has supported them. He didn't support it. No one backed it at the time, and today, unfortunately, we still have a bill, yet another bill. The same has happened, of course, to say to the JRC and to the 'Eleftherios Venizelos', with the privatisation of which I do of course disagree. As far as I know, Canada's insurance company has entered the privatisation process. We could do that, of course, but unfortunately fifty years are governed by Greece by simple managers and not by people who can produce real wealth. It is a disadvantage of the Greek political scene. I would, of course, like to begin with the amendment, Mr Minister, the amendment on asylum. Eight post-mortem employees, this evil hooey won't cut it off. It's not cut, my Minister. I remember when SYRIZA brought amendments, you were all yelling down here together that they are circumventing the Rules of Procedure, that they are overdue and badly done. For eight months now this industry of amendments is not going to stop. There is an amendment that Mr Metarakis has brought here. Didn't he bring her?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u106	Two amendments, very serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u107	Good. It's all serious to you. But let me say what you were saying in an election, when you were opposition, that it is not right that amendments should be brought here in a shorter time. Not like this, my Minister, we are friends, we know each other from the old, but when you said some things to do as government. You were shouting about the amendments. I'm lying? Didn't you call as a government for the amendments, but also as an Opposition?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u108	A dramatic decline.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u109	Look, a little pregnant and a little murdered can't be someone. A little breaking the Rules of Procedure doesn't exist. You either break him or you don't break him, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u111	Okay, you're a little pregnant. Is that what you want? A little. A little murdering the Rules of Procedure. Come on, Jesus Christ! Is that what we're gonna fight about? Bring eight postpaid employees from 2,329 euros each. Okay, I don't know, tell the Greek people you'll get eight of your own people with a salary of 2,329 euros. That's it. That is your opinion, I have another view. Let's go to the insurance. From you, Minister, because we have known each other from the past and because you are a real technocrat, I expected an insurance bill that is viable. You mix good with evil, because it does have areas that need to be voted on - we make it clear from the beginning - but when you mix good with evil, wrong with straight, you get out wrong. That's a reality. We can't get that thing straight. The truth is, you don't find a solution to the country's insurance problem. Can I tell you why? Because you invest in dying two and a half million Greeks after twenty years, thirty, forty years. If the solution of the insurance system goes through the death of the Greeks, it is not an insurance system, it is a home of ceremonies "Bamboula", that is, we expect people to die so that we can solve our problem. It's not like that. The solution to the problem - I said yesterday - is to produce wealth, to start the economy. I would also like the Minister for Development, because I am learning that the ESDP is being delayed too much. In the ministries there are files - speak, Mrs Bakoyannis, you - businessmen, who are delaying the ministries to implement control. A liberal government, whose economic policy is in development, must force the ministers to end this story. I am called by many from all over Greece and they are asking me what is happening with this story, they are stalling the ministries. Why? If Greece does not produce wealth, if we do not give the Greeks jobs, if we do not have contributions to the funds, there is no insurance system. So there is no targeting for production. This is our objection and it is essential. I will now tell you the statements made by the Prime Minister, who unfortunately did not do what he said. Let's go on August 25, 2018, interviewing "THEA": "I will repeal the law of Katrugalo". Did he break him down? Something's wrong. I mean, I almost got pregnant again, I almost got the law down. Let's go on September 15, 2018, to the ICU: "I will abolish the law of Katrugalo". I'm not talking about it. Let's go on February 26, 2019, Association of Insurance Companies: I'm going to repeal the law of Katrugalo. That's what the Prime Minister of the country said. I make all his statements in the Minutes, one by one, so that I don't read them all. [[At this point the President of the Hellenic Solution, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Listen: How will insurance, ladies and gentlemen, when the public debt is at 180% of GDP? How will it be solved? Red private debt is 330 billion euros together with charges, over 170% of GDP. Let's go to the private debt. I'm not telling you about the public. Private means the entrepreneur who has a small enterprise, who owes it and - I will say this once again - the tax policy followed by this government and the previous one and has made him completely bleeding. And I'm talking to you like someone with business. We've been bailed out by the businessmen of the place. We cannot pay either high VAT, special taxes or trade taxes. We cannot continue this story, because it will be much of a cost, and we will have to fire people. I say this because I hear the voice of entrepreneurs, because the Greek small and medium-sized enterprises are the engine of the economy. Unfortunately, you've done everything 50 years to keep out of industry. You booked all the big companies with ideological obsession, fearing the fake left out of here because they were on the streets. You've shut down all the companies. "PIRELLI" to remember? "Peace of Patraiko" to remember? All these companies. Tell me, what were we supposed to do? Grant them and subsidize them? Listen: Germany does it to many of its companies, France does it to many of its companies. Helping business so they can work. When the Greek company borrowed 22% interest rate and the German with 2%, with 3% and 1% with 2%, the Greek industry could not compete with German. Even now it's the same. If I go to get a loan as a businessman from a Greek bank, if they give it to me, they'll give it to me, because I'm clean, I don't have any more loans and weights - they'll tell me 8% interest rate. But if a German goes to the German Deutsche Bank with no interest rate, not to tell you that they're giving him the money for free. How will they compete? Is this the European Union that you are visionating? The European Union of solidarity? Our European friends? There are no friends, there are only interests. In addition, gross fixed investments that have continued to be in 50% of the previous ten years. Demographic, unemployment, ageing. You want workers, Minister, because in order for there to be insurance there must be insurance contributions, i.e. workers. Where will he find them? Six hundred thousand Greek birds are now working abroad. They're gone. You kicked them out, they didn't leave. You sent them away PASOK, New Democracy and SYRIZA. No one left here alone, you kicked them out of your bad choices. If they don't work, who will pay contributions? The Pakistanis, the Algerians, the Moroccans who come here and give them benefits? You made a mistake! They have not learned to work and not even personal to work are these people. We'll see about that as well. What don't you do? First of all, you are not reinstated. We always say it, a help, a allowance for our grandfather. It's a little allowance to Grandpa and Grandma, you guys! Give it to me, the dirt! Will Greece burn if we give an NSA to the old man who is in the village or in the city and gets a pension of EUR 500, 300, to give him something, anyway, now to the sterling? Have you also met the requests of the HEIs, Minister? I'll tell you the negatives of the bill. We will come to vote on some things, but we cannot vote on them all. It can't be done. Children orphans, with disabilities, autism, Down syndrome are entitled to the full amount of pension received by the deceased parent. What's simpler than that? So the kid with Down Syndrome and his parents are dying all of a sudden, are we gonna throw it away? Let's throw it down, die. That's not reasonable. She needs social sensitivity. This shows an analgesia. The choices are not correct, especially for the LEIs. You promised care for the relatives - we talked together. I understand that there are other explosions in the Northcontinent. You told me and I understand that, but it's none of our business. It is a national obligation on the country to our Northcontinental brothers and Greeks to give them the pension they are entitled to. That's what all the serious states do. Let's do it as an obligation. He pledged the Greek Prime Minister and is honorable and good. I will say again that Mr Mitsotakis came out as Prime Minister in Parliament after twenty years and said that yes, it is injustice and we will do so. Don't run it, Minister, don't take a brake gas. In the end, you'll go backwards and say there's nothing going on. It's a moral obligation. The Prime Minister declared it in here. Retrospective pensions: why only since October 2019? What cut is that? It reminds me of a fabulous, cutlery horror store. Why since 2019? Before what happened? Not since 2016? The law was introduced in 2016, since you are in favour of normality as a government - the gentlemen voted from here in 2016 - and since the state also has a follow-up. Because the state has not only the blurred MATs in Prespes, with the blurred MATs in Lesvos, with the Macedonian one, it also has here. Either we have all the time and regularity, my Minister, or we don't have regularity. If we do not have regularity to tell us, because there is no regularity, nor is there a little - I repeat - regularity. It's what people worked, we don't give them away. We don't give anyone anything. They worked these, and they wanted their money, they paid it. Analogue study: You tell me that insurance is viable by 2070, with the assumption that it will be reduced, that is, two and a half million Greeks die. Well done, Minister, what can I say now? To die ten million Greeks to have a surplus in the end. Is this the way the proportionate studies are? That doesn't make sense. I'm sorry, but I can't accept a logic of a technocrat like you, who I know personally, who knows you're working 12 hours a day at the Ministry, I know that, but that's not a result. And the policy is judged by the result, not by your intention. Football is punished, but the result is punishable in politics. And the result is not right. You look at your numbers surviving - like Simitis one thing with the euro - making it within your mind, testifying it and saying you will vote for it. We cannot vote for it, we cannot vote for it. I will not say about farmers who receive widowing and disability pensions. The farmers are losing them. Take a legislative initiative, support farmers. Farmers are few in our place, few in front of what the primary sector can do. I am referring to the primary sector of the fourth and fifth generations, not of the peach and tomato which has been finished and which has been since the 1970s or 1960s or 1980s. We need to get serious. I also told Minister Voridis - he is not here today - that experts should sit here and talk seriously, copy the model of the Netherlands and Israel in the primary sector, and slowly start, because the primary sector is treasure. And we'll tell you with numbers, since you like numbers. As far as I know, 115,000 euros is exporting the Netherlands to agricultural products, a little larger than the Peloponnese. Israel is making 80,000,000, 000, which is a land piece of land. They found it with stones and people take the water of the sea and water with it, because they make demolitions, fourth and fifth generations. I insist on this because I am aware of the subject, since I am engaged in one of my companies in the primary sector. Hey, listen up. Okay, he's a lawyer, Mackey, the Minister, I get it. Put in other experts. It's not bad. Help him. Let's help him, too. And I told the Prime Minister, when we met, to send our experts to him. We want to help history so that the primary sector starts working. Can I tell you something else? Is SYRIZA talking about the insurance he's made 15 cuts? I got them one by one. He wants some courage. The courage, the courage. You've made fifteen cuts. One by one, can I read them to you? You reduced pensions 15 times: 1) Circular Haikalis, Deputy Minister of Labour. Yours was Haikalis. It's reduced the amount of minimum pensions. 2) Third Memorandum of Understanding 2015, a 10% reduction for private sector pensioners. 3) Summer of 2016. Katorugalou Recalculation: Reductions to 250,000 pensioners up to 40%. 4) August 2015. The ECHR has been reduced to 160,000 low pensioners and also to a gradual total abolition. 5) Reductions of up to 60% in dividends. Subsidiaries of civil servants. (b) Pensions for new pensioners. Don't read them. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But this Alzheimer's political Alzheimer's who, when it was beating in Prespes was fine, and when the others in Lesvos beat it is fascism and authoritarian, when you cut pensions were fine, but when others cut it is not good, it's a logic that I can't understand, believe me. My mind and my logic aren't well connected. It's political hypocrisy. Not to say nerve. To say political hypocrisy. It was your inability to rule, because you gathered a group of people all of a sudden and you took the government as you took it, with a beard and stories and resistance, out you were all yelling. I get it. Go out, though, today and move the finger on those who are helpless - apparently, you don’t need - they’re poor, they’re too young. That's enough. Don't you all hit them together. But you made mistakes scary with fifteen reductions in pensions. You can't now be working class actresses. I understand the JRC. He's got a firm concept in favour of workers. I understand that. But cut all my pensions and get me guardians in favour of labour matters, it goes too far. Let me tell you about the FBI that's a bubble, etc. Listen, because demographic is a very important issue for me to get past it, there are measures that could help. Pilots have been tested in other countries. I may disagree with Mr. Orban, but he has implemented a plan and the births have increased over the last seven years. What is Orban's plan that he wants to take pilots and Germany to implement from 2023 onwards? Prolongation of repayment of family loans with at least two children. Women under the age of 40 are getting married, off-the-job loan of EUR 31,000. 1/3 of debt will be deleted by having a second child. Acquisition of a third child is exempted as a whole from all debt. Women with four and over children will be exempted equally from income tax. They are some of the measures taken by this evil, the far right, the shameful Orban. We agree on that. He's a Turkish friend. We agree on that. Inhuman. We agree on that. But for his country man has done the best and increased the births of Hungarians in the last four years. And here the Greeks die, we tax them, we confiscate the Greeks' homes, we send their children abroad, we throw them a hand of wood, we make them a push back from Greece and we tell them "do not give birth, we will bring the others next door". When we say 'the next side', we mean from Africa, from Congo, Algeria and Morocco. Well, that's not reasonable. I need a little more time because this is a serious matter and I want to talk about it. Candide was an ancient tragic. And I want the Prime Minister to hear me but he's not here. The good man was talking about the ruler having three things: first, that he is ruled. We understand that. Secondly, according to the laws, it is also a matter of principle, and thirdly, it is not a matter of principle. You will not rule forever. With the mistakes you're constantly making, you won't rule more than two, three years. We're telling you, and we remind you underneath it. We don't care if you'll rule. We care if we rule. And at some point, if our Greek people chooses - and we will be chosen because we have a programme and a plan and we are noble because we want to help you - we will rule as you cannot. So, what did you do today in Lesvos? Put the tail on your legs and run away. The MATs are gone. You humiliated the police forces. You sent them to beat the world. Once the world got out on the streets - because the voice of God's rage is and it's not just the little things - you ran and put the tail in the legs. Why? Because you don't have a plan. There's no plan. And you're acting now, you of the New Democracy, and you're talking about Mujuri, because he had an unfortunate moment in his private phone. I don't think you speak with civil courtesy all of you when you get upset. It was an unlucky and inappropriate moment. You, when you talk to your friends and get upset, speak kindly? Don't you swear? So you've succeeded right now and you want him to resign. Well, then quit you who have nothing to do with the election. Resign you who do not have the political dignity to resign for what you have undertaken to do and do not. Christ and God bless you! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] It's your fault, and it's not your fault you didn't have a plan. It hurts the tooth and cuts off the head. This is not the case in politics. Your inability to solve the problem will not lead to a division of Greece. You're making mistakes. Lead the place to split.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u112	What were you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u113	I shall read to you, Mr Colleague, a letter from the inhabitants of Lesvos, which he sent to me this morning in my office. I'll send her to the office yours. "Above islands fly Turkish fighters and drones. Illegal immigrants enter from everywhere and loot. They take away my fortune and the sheep I have in my hand. MATS are invading and kicking into the woods. So affectionate because we guard Thermopylae," he tells me. Because it's the end of our country and we have to respect people. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And solving the problem is not just sending the MATs by calling the Turk seeds. That's what the MATs told them there: Turk seeds. And today the porters denounced by their union, unfortunately...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u114	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u115	It's embarrassing what you guys are doing. I'm stylish, and I want to say more. Shame on the cops today, they're going to sue the porters in the area, 'cause they were slapping 'em when they got out of there. Did you know? Mr. Petrakakos, the president of the police officers, said they'd sue the porters. Do you understand what you're doing? Instead of saying you were wrong. Understood, there's been a mistake. We should pull the ear of Mujur together if it's his fault. But it's not his fault. Take them to the uninhabited islands. I've told you a thousand times. Put them on ships. There are arraigned ships, 30-year-old cruise ships. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We've got them in fuel tanks, restaurants, everything. Put every thousand, a thousand and a half people in there. Split them out because one is slaughtering one another, one is raped by another's child, the Afghan hates Pakistani, separate them. One ship will have Afghans, the other Pakistani. Get away from the Greeks because there are problems I'm telling you. And on the spot transit will leave their countries. Deporting all now. There's no other way. We'll have bigger problems. And I'm kind. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Now listen to me and tell you to understand it. I do not embrace cannibalism and barbarity anyone. But here in politics we will speak politically. The inability of the political system to resolve a major national issue will not end with a pull of the ear of Mujouri, or Velopoulos, or the inhabitants of Lesbos or Naoussa. You're wrong. Shall we all think together? Yeah. Can we all get together? Yeah. Shall we all propose together? Yeah. And choose the common component the best solution. Explosions are being created in the region throughout Greece. I would also like to close by saying this why you do not understand. This morning, while the incidents are taking place in Lesvos, the Prime Minister backed up and I say it in public. He wanted courage to get a Prime Minister back because he understood what was going on in Lesvos and in the west of Lesvos. This morning at 6 o'clock your friends, the Turks you're making the MOE among you make NAVTEX west of Lesbos. This is called foreign policy, Soviet, militaristic. But they're planning. We're not planning anything. We decide, we send the MATs, they beat the world and we take them back. That's not what's going on in politics. And because I want to end up not eating you any more time, I'll say this. I have a decision of the Administrative Court of Thessaloniki. A Pakistani went there and said he was an atheist, and the court ruled that he was entitled to asylum. He went out and called an atheist the other day. I have the decision in front of me. And according to an atheist statement, the gentleman gets asylum. They found the new vampire, Mr. Ministers of the New Democracy, and you will see from now on that they will go to the administrative courts and they will declare ungodly most of them and take the asylum because they are entitled to it for religious reasons. I told you it's not just things. He wants boldness, he wants virtue, he wants courage, he wants courage and he wants us to say "we made a mistake, we didn't have a plan, now we'll plan, give us five months to do it." That's not what you're doing either. And you know what? While my friend Adonis told us that the bulldozers would enter the Greek, the bulldozers entered Lesvos. You said they'd be in from November, from September. I disagree with the Greek. You put bulldozers in Lesvos. That doesn't make sense. Of course, as far as my friends on the left are concerned, because they are talking about the self-determination of the people and all that, the well-known aristocratic things we have learned at the university, I shall tell you something very simple. The right of the people to self-determination requires patriotism, ladies and gentlemen. patriotism, loving your homeland, loving your compatriot, loving your genus. Here in Cuba - you have gone, I imagine, some - there is a huge inscription by the saying of Che Guevara: 'Father or death'. What do you mean exactly when you say home? To fill with each other here, to give him allowances and our children, Greeks, to go abroad to become employees and workers? Give them benefits in a bankrupt country? Is that what you mean home? We mean homeland one: Let our country be tolerant, accept the diversity, accept those we can help, but first Greece, first the Greeks and then anyone else. So allow us this healthy patriotism to be the patriotism of the Greek solution. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And in closing, I will read you what you said together, SYRIZA, KKE, PASOK and New Democracy, in a unanimous event of the Committee of the Parliament on Population. In 1993 you used to say that before you changed, of course, because you had already mutated. You've done a lot of mutations, you've got an ovarian concept of mutation. "The reduction of births now seriously threatens the renewal and perpetuation of the Greek race". This is in Parliament's Minutes. It's your find. We are in favour of the perpetuation of the Greek race and the Greek language. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Whatever you said, we're the ones who say today. You changed it, we don't change it, because we believe in the Greek race. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending the meeting, since they participated in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-five students and students and two attendants of teachers from Ralion Gymnasium of Piraeus. We welcome you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Ioannis Giolas has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, I'm going to stand by the last guy. There is patriotism, there is pure, unintentional patriotism and there is "neutral" patriotism, within introductory terms the latter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u118	It's like you see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u119	It's not what I see, Mr. Comrade. There is international law that determines the human beings, the insurmountable fugitives, the oppressed, the people who manage to escape from civil spasm, mourn their victims, their children, bring them to the backs, drown them, and you are the ones who want to put them on ships like me. These are unacceptable. [[Noise in the Chamber from the ward of Greek Solution]] It is nationalism inexperienced, inexperienced patriotism, which you are only doing to get a climate of intolerance, of people who do not understand what patriotism is, what internationalism is, and what intolerance, on the other hand, and abusive fascism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u120	In Cyprus, say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u121	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u122	So after that, I will come back, Mr President, and I would like to say the following. It was the Government of New Democracy that voted to alleviate HICP's relief for property holders over 500,000 euros, which you don't call them medium-sized. It was the one that decided with the subsequent tax bill to dismantle all-time tax burdens for the benefit of offshore companies, to halve the dividends of shares in legal persons, to provide other exemptions to large capital and high beds and ultimately to favour major business interests. So we had no doubt about what social strata you would choose to benefit and what to burden with the promoted increase in insurance contributions and the abolition of the thirteenth pension. Be clearer. With this bill, nine out of ten pensioners will see their pension provision falling, while only seventy thousand pensioners will have a total of two and a half million increases. On the contrary, they are favoured by monthly pensions from EUR 2,000 and above, which you also do not call them small- and medium-sized ones. I will prejudge any objections you may have made that the increases relate to those who have paid premiums from thirty-five years or more, asking yourself: Who can be indifferent to those who were unable to complete thirty years of insurance, not because they did not want to work, but because they were unable to secure any job, with unemployment affecting society for a continuous decade and with percentages ranging from 27% to 17% recently? The insurance system must be primarily social, ensure that the economically weak and vulnerable have at least guaranteed them a decent standard of living during the break-up. So one-sided once again the targeted redistribution you're trying to make. Let them hear it, of course, those who are not present. One out of ten, and of course the most economically powerful pensioner will benefit, while the nine others, i.e. the small and medium-sized ones, will suffer smaller or larger reductions. If, as you say, no pension is planned to be reduced, then how does the registered deficit of EUR 30 million for all pension expenditure result, which will be reduced in the following year? As far as the thirteenth time is concerned, which you are now coming to abolish, the one we have also legislated on - the need for polite shepherds - you have voted in favour, just last year, of not forgetting that the lower pension, i.e. EUR 500 or EUR 750, is not of the same value and gravity for everyone. Those who are mainly depriving themselves will be the poor and populace and of them will miss the necessary resources to meet the basic conditions of their survival, which for others may be an exit night. I would refer you to the list of the National Analogue Authority you have submitted, which clearly shows that the average annual pension, calculated on the basis of the current pension scheme, will always exceed by 2040 that resulting from your own system. More specifically, in 2040 with the current scheme, the annual pension will amount to EUR 13,222, while the new is clearly less than EUR 13,202. And that, if I'm not mistaken, for twenty years. It goes without saying that the third pension will be replaced by additional financing of the social budget. God has it! Help! Absolute uncertainty and vagueness of that benefit. Where, on the other hand, you have been interested in reducing tax burdens, reducing HICPs and other exemptions, you are perfectly accurate and consistent with decimals' accuracy. For the economically weaker, however, no hope. As far as the insurance contributions accompanying your euphemism insurance reform are concerned, it is mainly worth pointing out the increase in the minimum grade of the total of the six professions you set up in the category of freelance professionals, the one that suffered a generous cut of around 50% over SYRIZA days and so far amounted to 185 euros a month, which you are increasing to EUR 210, or EUR 25 monthly or EUR 300 per year, at least, not insignificant for the low and again incomes, which is 80% of the total of this category. On the other hand, the current system introduced by Law No.4387/2016, which provided for the payment of premiums in proportion to income, was criticised by the Government as undeclared and unconstitutional in order to proceed with the adoption of the six insurance classes. However, insurance, ladies and gentlemen, is not confined to burden-sharing alone. It concerns the measurement of all financial burdens and constitutes a principle of intrinsicity and social security. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if you're kind for a minute, because we've had too much. For this reason, the higher earnings have to pay insurance contributions as a percentage of their income, as is the case in the case of employees proportionally, their contributions are calculated. In conclusion, I should like to remind you that the SYRIZA Government has led to the rationalisation and simplification of the insurance system, partly adopting the requirements imposed by the institutions, which mainly affected the vulnerable group of our fellow citizens. But it has succeeded in unifying the different - the nineteen - types of definition that existed before a simple, fair and universal system, primarily social ones. This system was the basis for the re-establishment of the insurance system in terms of universality and social justice, which the current government will overturn, undercut its own viability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Velopoulos, you have asked for the floor. Here, you have the floor for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, I am not in the mood to oppose anyone. However, I will repeat what SYRIZA and the other parties said in '93: 'A reduction in births now seriously threatens the renewal and perpetuation of our Greek race'. Race! Race! Race! Here are the Minutes from the Greek Parliament. I have them to testify soon. If they today changed their minds, then they were racists. Then they were racist. Now, I don't know what it is. On the other hand, because I do not want to raise a point of order - I repeat - I am a perpetrator of what words and concepts mean. We're different from the rest of the beings. I didn't devour anyone. I didn't characterize anyone. I didn't talk to anyone personally. I'm trying in this Chamber as an elusion to be even sharply opposed. So, yeah. But I am insulted and slandered by not myself, saying: Let the gentlemen here say the saying of Che Guevara: 'Father or death'. Can they say it? They won't say it. I will not, of course, ask the honourable Members if they know what international law means, which has been violated hundreds of times. The invocation of international law, according to Thucydides - geopolitical, geohistory - is the invocation of the impossible vis-à-vis the mighty. In conclusion, I will not ask how many people are hosting from their good refugees at home, because I know the answer. Nobody. So they're not philanthropists. That's how they make fun of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Barca, you were the next speaker. Shall we put Mr. Prussakis, who's been in custody since yesterday?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u126	No, Mr. President. I've been waiting a long time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u127	Good. Mr. Barkas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u128	Thank you. Mr President, I have a comment to make on the plenary. The Minister's not here. I understand he can't get the process out of himself. It's inhuman. He can't do this alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u129	He's coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u130	You know, Mr Economou, when Members of Parliament speak, the government must be present.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u131	Here, he's here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u132	That's what I'm saying. It's inhuman to make the whole process on its own. It makes sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u133	All right, the Minister's here. Carry on, Mr. Barca.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u134	So let me also make a comment. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy Members, Mr Mitsotakis and Mr New Democracy, after the seven-month ball and after turning the islands into a war zone forty-eight hours, leading the situation to unprecedented conflict and social unrest, even with gunshots, rescinds the forces of MAT. Mr. Mitsotakis and New Democracy are the only ones in charge of this chaos. The ideals and management of incompetence have turned the islands of the northern Aegean into a permanent park of souls. We are therefore calling on Mr Mitsotakis, even at the very last moment, to change the table. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you have chosen to give the draft law that you presented to Parliament the designation 'insurance reform'. As the main expressor of the right-wing party in the country, you have implemented for over forty years policies that deprived the insurance system of vital resources for its viability, such as the undisturbed deposit of the reserves of the insurance funds to the Bank of Greece. You have eliminated the funds' reserves through mismanagement and reasonable structured bonds. You have undermined the public social security system following the emergence and spread of flexible forms of employment, the deregulation of labour relations, the substantial disappearance of all the control mechanisms, such as the AAR, resulting in the lack of resources and the delay of the insurance system on an increasingly smaller basis. You come and you're comin' about insurance reform. Instead of taking a step forward to public social security, on the basis of Greek justice decisions, which, moreover, did not question the philosophy of the institutional framework introduced by the SYRIZA Government, we took steps back in this draft law. In particular, nine out of ten pensioners lose significant income. Only one out of ten will see a rise in the share of the highest incomes. The reinstatement by the SYRIZA of the permanent measure of the thirteenth pension is abolished for all. In particular, a full pension is cut by the low-pension pensioners who received their full pension on the tenth day of the third year. He chose Mr. Mitsotakis to lie to the pensioners of the country when he guaranteed the maintenance of the 15th pension. Nine out of ten free traders are heavily charged with their contributions to alleviate one out of ten. Low and medium-incomes, with a 20% increase in their contributions, pays the multiple reduction in contributions for high and very high incomes. In particular, contributions for 90% of the self-employed and self-employed are increasing by 20%. The minimum contribution is increased from EUR 185 to EUR 220. So instead of Mr Brutsi's communal ammunition, who did not leave a channel for channelling and broadcasting for heavens, the reality, Minister, which you create is different. And the New Democracy creates it with this draft law. It's different for millions of current and future insured persons. In conclusion, according to the results of the academic community in assessing this draft law, evaluation, as demonstrated in a number of articles in New Democracy-friendly media, points out: The Government proposal has fatal consequences. It removes for many decades the prospect of a single insurance policy. It presents basic principles of tax justice, legitimising lower contributions for a big doctor than for a cleaner. And despite the announcements about changing a productive model, they give the kiss of life to the model that led us to bankruptcy, a normality we would rather not return. Apart from the evaluation of the academic community in the country, the present draft law and the inspiration of Mr Brutsis could be termed one sentence. And I conclude with it, Mr President. It is indeed a phrase which is very close to Mrs Bakoyannis: it is measured, weighed and found incomplete, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u135	Mrs Anna Happily from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the positive sign of this bill is for granted. The Minister, our rapporteur, many colleagues, has been extensively mentioned. I endorse his positive aspects. I would like to put another positive dimension to it. It is the first time after the period of cuts that an insurance person adopts a social person, especially for disabled people, because the first time is established an independent MEDI address and is given the possibility to draw up disabled protectors for the first time. However, I would also like to make a few comments on SYRIZA. We will not adopt an extreme rhetoric. I would like to point out, however, that one of the main disadvantages of the Katrugalo law was the personal difference. It was a term that SYRIZA was first inspired, introduced, applied, and ended up having two-speed pensioners with huge injustices. I have previously heard the former Minister, Mr Katrugalos, saying that six hundred thousand pensioners saw increases. But he failed to say that the increases were psychotic. And what about the other two thirds? These two thirds saw this personal difference. In fact, I have the evidence to tell you, where there is a personal difference among the free professionals 600 euros. Do you know what that means? It means they'll never see any increases in their pensions. The SYRIZA rapporteur, the former Minister, Mrs Ahtsioglou, has not only healed this injustice, but adopted it. Ladies and gentlemen, insurance is a complex issue with three dimensions: political, technological and social. This bill cures many issues and injustices in the range of these three dimensions. Of course, not all of them can be solved within the narrow budgetary framework. And that was not possible now. But the Minister put the pillars in. And that was a difficult thing to do. I was pleased that Mr Brutsis was placed in the political committee and in the second reading of the bill and made a reference to the social dimension of this bill and that this incorporates our election commitments. It is obviously also my own proposals that I tabled to the committee, which have as a solid basis the needs of society and our pre-election commitments. My proposals have three axes when the appropriate financial space is found. First axle: personal difference. At the moment with the new bill, we have five speeds of benefit. However, some of them, given that increases will be within the limits of inflation, will not see any increases in their pensions. So, in this context, we must see when the budget area is at least to the low pensioners, this personal difference in some way will be abolished, even in part. Second axle: coefficients of replacement. It is right that they have increased from thirty to forty years, but we need to see the recompense from all forty years onwards. The committee has tabled a table showing the differences between the Katrugalo and the Brutsi Act in the coefficients and how they are applied on the basis of EUR 1,000 and EUR 100. I'm filing him for the Minutes. [[At this point, the New Democracy Member, Mrs Anna Happily, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] So given that there is the sixty-two-year limit, there are people who have been locked up and do not see great increases in their pensions since forty years. They're the ones we're gonna have to reward. At this point I would like to stress that Mr Mitsotakis and the Government of the New Democracy are working methodically and with a plan to create new jobs that are stablely paid. Third axis: support for sensitive social groups, improvement of the shameful rates of Katrugalos disability in relation to national pensions, restoration of reciprocity to heavy and unhealthy and third-party care to support multi-texts and third-texts, given the large demographic problem. I would like to point out that these proposals have been based on my professional experience for over fifteen years on the issues of insurance and labour law, as well as on scientific training and, on the other hand, because I was a member of the New Democracy labour sector. So I have been directly accepting these social issues, but I also have a very great responsibility. I am sure that the Minister takes these into account, and that is why it would be useful to put it in order to improve this draft legislation if there is a timetable and in what way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and three teachers from the General School of Krone Laconia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Pinheiro has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased, but I welcome and thank you for yesterday's day, for what happened in Evros and Alexandroupolis and I feel the need to inform you. The focus of political developments in the wider region, but also in the European Union, was Evros and Thrace, due to the presence, but also to the impeccable cooperation of Prime Ministers of two countries which are allied, European and at the same time corporate. It is important that the joint declaration adopted by which bilateral relations are broadened and deepened in defence, security, civil protection, economic, energy, transport, infrastructure, cross-border cooperation, culture, education and sport. A climate of hope has been created. The world is happy and we need it, and you too must as a Qualified Opposition, but also the other parties to contribute to this effort and not complain.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u139	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u140	I can barely say to you that the climate in the whole region is the same. And now on our point. Don't worry, this draft law by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs establishes a sustainable and long-term operational insurance system. It leaves in the past the law of the outgoing government, the provisions of which have created injustices and distortions. Now a solid and rewarding insurance system is being created, governed by a strong social figure. It cultivates the insurance consciousness to everyone. It provides special care for the multitude, young people, working mothers, farmers, widow's pensions and special disabilities. It is the first insurance bill after twelve years which not only imposes no reduction in pensions, but also provides for significant increases, as the relevant Minister points out in capital letters. The aim of the present government is to restore justice for those who have worked most, while strengthening the remuneration of pensions. All current and tomorrow's workers will be particularly benefiting from more than thirty years of insurance. With the new law, they will see higher benefits when they are retired. SYRIZA's law isoconstitutional and ultimately unconstitutional rules were unfair to those who worked the most, while the insurance system was damaged. Instead of rewarding, most years of work earned. In this way they motivated tax evasion and undeclared work. With the adoption of the new insurance bill there will be increases in the supplementary pension for those who had cuts in the summer of 2016. You will remember the magical number of 1,300 euros. With insurance reform we are reducing the working time required from seventy-five days for the employee and fifty for the acquisition of insurance and health care benefits. While for the self-employed the corresponding time required is reduced from three months to two. At the same time we encourage the integration of young people into the production process. We provide special care for all new free professionals and self-employed people who decide to create their business with reduced contributions for the first five years. The government supports working mothers. This bill covers the gap in the law created by the law of SYRIZA - I am not talking about the law of Katrugalo, because you are going to get another accident - to the detriment of the working woman who has a child. A specific provision, rather than a circular, gives a 50% discount on the insurance contributions for working mothers. In addition, Greek pensioners who wish to continue their work legally are reintroduced into the production process. In particular, the multitude and the pensioners are completely protected as they enjoy 100% of their pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said before by the Aristotle Evros, I would like to stand up and highlight the provisions of this draft law on the primary sector. The multi-faceted primary sector, as expressed by farmers, farmers and fishermen, is treated with appropriate sensitivity and responsibility. These are all subject to a specific, favourable and protective framework of reduced insurance contributions which differs from that of all other free professionals. At the same time, they are based on various parametric provisions, as is the case with the retired farmer and all relevant professions in the primary sector. I also point out in capital letters that the servants in the selected forces of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies will not be affected by the new insurance system. Rangers, frogs, pilots and other specialties are now being protected. Mr President, Minister, on 20 February, a few days ago, at the welcoming offices of the New Democracy in the Greek Parliament, we welcomed Mr Kavada - our colleague from Lefkada - and with you the Association of Retired Officers of the Greek Army, as well as the Association of Federal Security Union. I'm giving you everyone's thanks. I believe that, like the members of the associations, you have shown affection with the acceptance of the transitional two-year period for self-employed persons, as provided for in Article 27, and expressly referred to old pensioners. We welcome the offer by the Armed Forces and Security Corps to teach even unpaid in productive schools, training schools and seminars. And I am sure that you will rethink these issues carefully and sensitively in the near future and what you are still aware of as a diligent minister. I am sure that after an important insurance reform you will shortly consider a request concerning officials who wish to provide their services voluntarily for the proper functioning of productive schools. The law of SYRIZA - I will continue to say this - led to the conversion of the insurance system into a complex, unfair and non-contributory system, while we, on the contrary, propose a new, innovative, flexible, simple, clean and effective system. Most of all, however, with the new insurance system, thanks to the proportional study and scientific work that has taken place, we can tell Greek citizens that we guarantee all pensions by 2070, as you call it. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, I am voting in favour of responsibility, sustainability and social development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u141	Mr Alexis Tsipras, President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, is then called on Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the insurance bill. However, with what is happening around us in the last few days, the concept of security, however, in the wider dimension, is becoming crucial and essential, becoming the great demand for every Greek citizen. And if I'm not mistaken, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, you were supposed to bring order and security into the country. That's what you were saying. But today you have led the country to the forefront of chaos and to a state of general insecurity, with your idealistic obsession, with your authoritarianism and arrogance and with your unprecedented management inability. Produce more insecurity and fear than the average Greek citizen can consume. You have, of course, sacrificed everything on the altar of communication. You think one can govern a country and a people without a plan for major problems, but only by arrogance and authoritarianism, as long as one has a good communication staff and support from the media. Electionally, apart from the fact that you had made the issue of security central, the current Prime Minister and Head of the opposition had then brought me to the House three times - on top of current questions to the Prime Minister - on the issue of security. And in the end, in the seven months that you are ruling, you are proving yourself and you are the most incapable government to defend the security of citizens. You hired a thousand five hundred experts with fast track procedures and, of course, without any education. But you gave them guns on the streets. Why? But to show the citizens that the police on the streets and patrols are growing. That's great! And now we are about to mourn victims. From a miracle we have not grieved victims so far! How do you give a gun to untrained people on the road? One was hit by nightbrains and they lost their service weapon. On the other hand, a political policeman found himself in a university space with a gun prolonged, threatening to use it toward students. The day before yesterday, another man used it toward a citizen. He shot him. He shot his car because, he says, they were struggling on the road. Is this a serious security policy? Do you think that the Greek citizen can feel safe, seeing all these incidents? You've turned the country into a wrestler. And in order to complete the scene of generalised insecurity and generalised conflict, you organised the day before yesterday from MAT to the islands of the northeast Aegean. And we are witnessing the last 24 hours of unprecedented scenes of violence and conflicts of war, uncontrolled and dangerous violence. Are you all right? What are these things? What exactly are you doing? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Who is responsible for this image, the image of the civil division? Who ordered the MATs to break the cars of the protesting citizens? Who commanded MATs to excite the inhabitants of the islands who protest and call them Turkish seeds? Will anyone take responsibility for what is going on? Will either one of you take over - either the political leadership or the physical leadership - the responsibility for this misery? You think with violence and authoritarianism you can solve problems? Do you think that at the time of the internet and the speed of communication you will be able to hide from the Greek people these images of shame, with decisions of shame, such as the one taken by the direct administration of ERT, which forbids the journalists of regional stations from uploading local news if they are not controlled by the central government in Athens? What are these things? Will you explain these, Mr. Gerapetiti, which I see here, as Minister of State, since the Prime Minister does not dare come to Parliament today to give answers? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This was not even happening in YENED time! And what do you think you'll do that way? Do you think you'll be able to hide the truth? The truth isn't hiding. No matter how much you want to check the update, no matter how much you're trying on private media and public television to check the news, the images are indisputable. I see you're messing with the North Aegean Regional Commander. But until the day before yesterday, weren't you guys celebrating his election? Didn't you say that Greece's map was painted blue? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Didn't you say that you won twelve of the thirteenth districts, that you won them all with the exception of Crete? Mr. Mitsotakis didn't say that? Wasn't he celebrating Mr. Mujouri's election? Now what are you telling us? Now is that the problem? Your man? So will anyone take responsibility for these terrible images? And I sincerely believe that this image does not honor you here today. I don't honor you. I am referring to Mr Gerapetti, but, in his honor, he is here. Where are all the others responsible? Where are they hiding? But it's your regular tactic: The responsible ministers run away, hide. Why are you hiding them? Mr. Aygeakis messed up the day before yesterday in sports, football. You hid Mr. Ausgeakis from the House. But you kept him. You take over all the responsibility and keep him undersecretary to take part in the photos. He messed up after each other, all the Coordinators of Ministers and State Secretarys you assigned to manage the refugee. You've changed them all, just like your shirts change. But you're keeping them, Ministers. But you're hiding them. They're not coming here to take responsibility. Where is Mr. Metarakis and Mr. Koumotsakos today? Lesvos and Chios are on fire. Where is he? Where are they hiding? Where is Mr Chrysochoidis to talk to us about order and security and the high mind of the police? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Where is he going to talk to us that when SYRIZA left, when the government changed, do you remember what he said to the cops? "Now you won't be ashamed. Now you'll be high-headed." Where is it to apologise for this lousy picture of the beating of policemen from civilians in their rooms? Is that a disgraceful picture of the Greek police? Will anyone take responsibility for these images? Will anyone have the eloquence, even the eloquence, to submit his resignation to these images that we see these three days in the receivers of our television and computers? Because most of that's where we see them, is the truth? I'm not saying, don't accept the resignation. Will Mr Chrysochoidis, who has led the country into this generalised insecurity picture, have the eloquence to submit his resignation or not? If not, then you say that the main responsibility for this mess is not shared by the ministers of government, but has one, the Prime Minister of the country, Mr Mitsotakis. He's the one responsible for this image of division, the civil war, the image of the mess and the chaos. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And he is responsible for it because, with his arrogance and inability to manage a crisis, which he knew exists - the refugee crisis has not been post-electioned - the refugee crisis has divided the Greek people. Arrogance, incompetence and I will add another characterization, irresponsibility. At the time that national consensus had to be reaping against Turkish provocation, you are turning our remote islands of the northeastern Aegean into fields of civil conflict. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Yesterday we had another record of violations and overcrowding in the Aegean. It doesn't mean that because the channels didn't play it, it didn't happen. It happened. So while Turkish provocation has crossed the line, what are you doing? You drive the islands of the northeast Aegean to chaos. Uh, that's not just incompetence, it's not just nonsense, it's irresponsible, it's national irresponsibility, and I'm calling immediately, now, to resurrect shrubs... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...to change tactics, it's dangerous what you've done. After unbelievable seven-month-old relics in refugee, where did you end up? You have ended up sacrificing the islands and immersing them in chaos, not to mention anything, and transfer the problem to the rest of the territory. Is that reasonable? I mean, sacrifice only one of your twelve district managers so the rest of you won't be smacked. That's what you're doing. And you legislated by legislative act, while the House was open. You didn't even have the courage to take the political responsibility of reserving property here in the House. You didn't want to talk about it. Why? Because you obviously feared that you would have leaks once again and would not pass. The responsibility, ladies and gentlemen - and I repeat - belongs entirely to the House - and if you do not have the right to resign - to the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, and he must come here to Parliament and take over, he must have the guts to come here and take over. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I, ladies and gentlemen of the government once again call upon you to take this act of legislation back, to remove the forces of repression, the MATs, from the islands, to call on the planning of the creation of prisons for refugees on the islands next to the already overnumbered structures, to call on the racist sport that the government spokesman has committed, that you are supposedly doing this to protect the inhabitants of the islands from the coronary. It is the absolute shame of Europe, of liberal Europe, that statement. It is a misery that the government representative did yesterday. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Look at this as an opportunity for you. To stop these plans being irresponsible of repression against the islanders directly and because we are not the same, because we do not care for you to be at risk of destroying the country as a whole, we say again: Take back the act of legislative content and authoritarianism and let us all contribute together to the development of a necessary national plan to deal with the refugee crisis. Any way you want. At a private meeting, would the Prime Minister like? I'll be there. Can he convene a Board of Chiefs? Whatever he wants. But first he'll get this dead end strategy back. And, of course, through dialogue to support an effort. It's a national issue, it's a crucial issue. And to support Europe's effort to claim to change the Dublin Treaty, because it cannot in the final analysis - to say it more understandable to all of you - to claim solidarity and support for Greece in Europe, while at the same time you do not show solidarity and support for islands and islands. The same thing you want to claim on Europe, at the moment you do it from the back on the islands. Is that possible? This thing is incomprehensible. So stop risking social and national cohesion before things get worse, and we will be here, but as long as you continue this deadlocked policy to know that you will find us across the street. I now come to the insurance bill. Mr. Brutsi, I've been seeing you very happy lately. I think you have the feeling that you are bringing a great reform, that you are a great reformer. In the cafes, however, when retired people gather, they will see exactly what happens to their pensions, which they would say - because they speak popularly - is that a hole in the water you do, not reform. And the problem for you is that you inflated their minds because people were watching morning television shows - where you weren't missing an opportunity to attend - and they were feeling that they would see big increases. So where are these increases? You have anticipated a total pension expenditure for 2020 of less than EUR 200 million than the previous year. So how can you give increases by giving less money? You should explain that because you couldn't even be magician Mike Lamar. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And you know what? This can't be a secret for a long time from the world. Do you think the retired person can be misled by virtual indicators and TV shows? So you, what you are doing now, which is why it has an interest, is that you are essentially legislating memorial policies after the end of the memoranda. And I said, in my previous speech to the House, that the hard core of your policy is the core of neoliberalism, which was also in the memorials. It is the deregulation of labour relations and the hitting of collective agreements, the degradation of the Labour Inspectorate and the encouragement of the infrastability of the labour market, which is your main commitment to employers' interests, are the unreasonable and collective redundancies, which are in your ideological core, it is your withdrawal even from your election commitment to this even inadequate, against us, to increase the minimum wage. And with today's bill you come to disprove and whatever hope you had created - putting the cubit too high and going underneath - the retired. I would like to remind you that last spring we voted for the bill and you also voted for it, which brought the thirteenth pension as a permanent measure. And, to be precise, it was an entire pension for the low-pensioners and as long as the scale was up, it was proportional, according to the strengths of the Greek economy. And, in order to know what we are saying in relation to the strengths of the Greek economy developed by the Greek government, the Greek economy withdrew, as it turned out, and the increase in the minimum wage, which you said would not last, and the abolition of the subordinate, which you said would not last, and the return of the permanent tenth pension to these levels that we could, with a view to increasing the amount and making it all the better for everyone in the country's finances. So I remind you that you have sought to turn against the SYRIZA government of those pensioners who did not receive this whole pension. And what you didn't say then! 'Fakes', you said. "Election tip" you said. And what you did not say, but you voted for it nonetheless. At the same time, not only did you vote for it, but you also announced its maintenance since you were elected to ensure that you do not displeased the low pensioners. Indeed, the pensioners and their families to a large extent, I would say, believed your intentions or at least believed that they would receive this tenth-third pension regardless of which party is in the government. And today you come here and it's like nothing's going on? ‘There has never been this pension.’ And those who believed, who heard you say "when we voted will we keep it?" And there are statements by all of you. What about the people they believed? You are now saying 'Let them be careful'. But you are not only abolishing the thirteenth pension. You get from the low-pensioners from wherever you can find them. Because with this bill, the lower the pension, the larger scissors will fall. In the proportional study presented by Mr Brutsis, the average annual pension after the adoption of this bill will be reduced in relation to the current system and will be reduced for the next twenty years. It will be reduced every year by 2040. This results from your own evidence, Mr Brutsi. I'm putting it down, too. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexios Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Let's go down. You tell pensioners that there is an increase in the replacement rates for those of them who have between thirty and forty years of insurance. And this is where you mislead them. Those who retired by 2016 will see no difference. The increases you give them will be accounting as this will not exceed the personal difference by protecting pensions paid when recalculating. Those who see a small increase, to be perfectly fair, in the main pension will only be about seventy thousand retired people from about two and a half million. But you also have this increase in part taken from the other pocket by abolishing the thirteenth pension. And who are, in the end, the ones who are going to get an increase of 250 euros, as we read in the newspapers and listened to the channels? Ultimately these will be a few large-scale multinationals, banks and perhaps some of the Golden Boys you're building in public bodies. I say this because we cannot find who other workers with forty years of insurance, as required, will be retired with an average salary of EUR 3,500 per month. Again, an average salary of EUR 3,500 in Greece of the ten-year crisis. In short, ladies and gentlemen, you have made all this mess, you have come out a couple of fifty times in morning shows to create a picture of euphoria for all pensioners, to finally give rises only to the few who are retired with an average salary of 3,500 euros. For them you are legislating today. At the same time, however, unjustified and violent, for those who have a trademark for more than forty years, we have a reduction in the rate of replacement. The annual rate of replacement for them is falling sharply from 2% to 0.5%. And now we're going to the assistants. The increases relate to pensions before 2016 for those having a sum of more than EUR 1,300. But to whom you give one hand and the other, by abolishing the thirteenth pension you get them. A total of eight hundred thousand low pensioners will see a full pension doing wings and a million seven hundred thousand will see the proportional pension that we have given them to disappear. Conclusion: For the first time in modern Greek history under normal conditions and without the pressure of any troika and without any financial risk of derailment, cut pensions. All the previous times, there was an excuse. Today there is no excuse. It's your choice. You're cutting pensions without memos, but from ideology. That's what you do with today's bill. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Let's go on the subject of contributions. This is an extreme injustice against the socially weak. Enter the decoupling of the contributions from real income, so no matter what income the contributions will be calculated. So you don't have everyone in the same bag. And what's going on? Contributions are increased for 90% of self-employed professionals and self-employed persons. The increase will be of the order of 20%, i.e. EUR 35 per month or EUR 420 per year in total. The minimum contribution from EUR 185 climbs to EUR 220. Therefore, even if we say it schematically, the person who paid the lowest contributions will now pay more and will be found to pay the same as the one with multiple incomes. Now what do you call that? However, social justice does not mean justice for everyone and development for everyone - how did you say so in the election? - You say so. But I repeat that's your ideology. And let's see a little and what you do with the infamous middle-class, to the free traders, you give the system the most unfair form of taxation. You increase the contributions for the nine out of ten, the weakest of them, and at the same time enter the logic of unfair indirect taxation, where poor and rich pay the same. You delete every concept of justice and redistribution and the discount on the few and richer, but it is also paid by the employees, for whom the principle applies to pay contributions according to their income. The same applies to the fixed health contribution. In short, discovering ways of widening inequalities, you are indeed excellent. We should congratulate you on that. This bill therefore favours high and very high incomes. Low, middle, lose. And the question, Mr Brutsi, is why you choose that, which is why. Once again I'll say it, I won't get tired. The reason is that this is the core of your ideas, that's what you believe, that's what you ambassador. And it's your strategy. The depreciation of the public social security system is your strategic planning, we said it in the election and considered some to be exaggerated. And this deception has many to blame for, but you know what, it also has some benefits. Not everyone is wrong, some are beneficial, and to the benefit of us we rank private insurance companies. Because the reduction in contributions to high incomes certainly favours the possibility of fewer people directing their money to private insurance. Last year, your Chief here in Parliament spoke of a fourth memorial, when the SYRIZA government was voting for the first time to extend and restore injustices, in favour of the world of work, the free professionals, the retired, the middle class. What you are going to do today, let me, is worse than what happened at the time of the memoranda. You guys did it again. But then you did, having an excuse, saying "It's Tomsen, it's Lagard, it's the troika, it's the lenders and they're pushing me to impose hard memorial policies and cut pensions." So, today, no one imposes on you, and that is why what you are doing today is worse. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But to answer the fourth memorial, which Mr Mitsotakis said last year, if it has ever been - and I do not think it would have been possible - to the twisted minds of some of our lenders, the country's thoughts were to continue on the memorial path, despite the fact that it managed to do so much, reforms, to complete the programme, there was in some of the perverted minds. Some even suggested a national solution to the credit line, and some talked about a fourth memorandum. If it has ever been in the perverse mind of our lenders - some of them are retired now - the fourth memorandum, that is exactly what it would involve, this pension reform would involve, a reform that is unfair to many, which favours the few. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude by saying this. There is a need, nationally I would say, for Greek society, after ten whole years of crisis, to rebuild itself. You in the seven, eight first months that you are ruling on a daily basis are being tempered for your crisis response plan, for your strategies, and you are also being tempered by today's bill. And I have the feeling that, although they are only eight months, in the consciousness of the majority of society, regardless of what they voted, whether they are right, left, centred, you end up with few, few for the country, few for the citizens, few for the great challenges facing the Greek society and the country, after exiting from a ten-year economic crisis. In the face of all this, we are here not - I repeat - to stand up for the opposition, but to provide solutions and a way out of the great deadlocks to which you are driving the country. We are here with a development plan and more justice, we are here for security, social cohesion, we are here for safety at work, for security in the social state, for national and social cohesion, for defending our national interests, for defending social and individual rights. At the end of the day, the world of work, young people and young people, low-wage and low-wage pensioners, the middle-class, which today sees the expectations that you have created - do not worry - all citizens with democratic reflexes, not necessarily left-wing, are already beginning to form what we call a 'progressive social majority', which will lead to the exit of an incompetent and dangerous government of regression and authoritarianism and will lead to a way outwards progressively and democratically our country and people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u143	On behalf of the Government, the Minister of State will first answer for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will answer once again, because respect for Parliament is limited to the monologue. Let me point out this, I apologise to the Chief of Staff Responsibility and the fact that the government's headquarters are incomplete today, because the long-term planned and announced Ministerial Council is currently being held. Because the Ministerial Council is obviously a word that was unknown to SYRIZA's governance and could not have been such a coincidence. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I've heard a lot of things. Obviously the Minister responsible will answer as far as insurance and work issues are concerned. I will confine myself, if I may be allowed by the honourable Members, to the issues that have been raised, primarily concerning public order and immigration and asylum issues. I have listened to a lot, but I have not heard some that I should have heard, Mr President. I did not hear a word - to leave the insurance - a word of self-criticism about the fact that the insurance which came over SYRIZA was judged by all sides unconstitutional by the Council of State because it did not have any competitivity and did not bring any equality. Instead, we've heard a lot of things. I have not heard one word - and you will allow me, on account of my knowledge, to point out that this is extremely degrading for Parliament - I have not heard a word of support for the people of the security bodies who have suffered violent and masculine desecration in recent days.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u145	Quiet, please! We're on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u146	I cannot say, Mr President, that whenever the Chief of Staff is speaking there is complete silence and when a representative of the Government starts talking, what has just happened is happening. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] What I also didn't hear...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u147	You don't have to confirm him. He said something and he needs to talk. Mr. Tsipras was only interrupted by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u148	I have not heard a word of condemnation of the extremes and violence that we have seen in the last two days, a word which I have not heard, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, let us say it immediately in line with the policy. I did not hear a word about what the proposal of the Officer for the management of immigration and refugee is in fact. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Mr President, I have to say that at the moment there is a government plan for the management of the migration and refugee crisis, a project that exists for the first time and is completely different from the policy mix that has been carried out by previous governance. It includes three aspects where there is an exact opposite intake in relation to what was the case firstly, at the level of rescheduling in the sea channels and illegal entrances. The logic of the open borders has ceased with this government, and I would like to say to the National Representation that there will be a further upgrading of the readiness for recovery, because there are obvious grounds for guaranteeing public health. The second level, the structures...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u149	You think he won't talk because you're interrupting him? It'll take more time and say what he wants to say. It has to be heard. You don't have to agree. We know that. You guys have to be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u150	In the structures, Mr President, the second aspect. We have been in favour from the outset of closed controlled structures, which will replace what is really dismantling completely for the Greek state and is not in line with a rule of law that is open structures in which, in any case, there are serious phenomena in public health matters and in public safety issues which are absolutely no control, which lie right next to the urban fabric. Instead, we propose in particular: Structures, which are completely controlled, structures in which there will be human living conditions, where there will be dormants separate for families, for children, where there will be complex centres of health, entertainment and focus areas, human conditions ensuring that there is just one that should exist in Greece for a long time, that there is control over those who are in Greece while the third pillar, asylum, is pending. I do not want to recall exactly what was received on the level of asylum applications: seventy-three thousand asylum applications, which were never to be dealt with. That's the reality. As of 1 January this year, a bill brought about significant changes and fully speeds up asylum procedures. Our aim is by combining the recovery of refugee-migration flows, by speeding up asylum procedures, so that we can complete the project which is about the decongestion of the islands. Instead, we have heard today that SYRIZA seeks to dismantle the islands. We have heard the Chief of Staff Response begs the government because we have in fact sacrificed the islands for the sake of the mainland. I would like to say - and that is something I would like to say on the grounds of knowledge - that this attitude involves the element of political hypocrisy. Why? It was precisely the previous government of SYRIZA, which typically accepted that anyone who leaves the Host Island who leaves the Host Island and is transferred to the mainland may not then be relocated to the host country. SYRIZA practically agreed that once any of the island leaves, while the application is pending, it is not returned. Practically today what is happening and proposed by SYRIZA in the context of, of course, an over-populated populist approach is to move all the immigration - refugee population to the inland knowing that at the same time we are closing the door to any return. That's what you suggest! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If you suggest, however, that you have the courage to tell local communities, do not hide behind the assumption of decongestion. Decongestion means that there is no return because of you, honorary members of the Civilian opposition. I would like to say this: yesterday we had very hard violence, which reached the point of desecration against people who serve the public interest, against members of the Security Council. It is, in fact, a series of acts that, apart from the physical and psychological violence they bear, are directed directly against the democratic culture, what the Chief of Officer Opposition called them a protest. Was it a protest that we saw at the hotel in the male police attack? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Was the bullets or rockets or the molotovs a protest? Was it a protest that an ambulance was prevented with wounded to be able to go to the Health Center? Are these legal acts of resistance? Is it something that we accept as a democratic society? But I didn't hear a conviction about it. I've heard, of course, two things. The first thing I heard was that we had excessive force on the part of the police because they broke windows and everything that happened. I guarantee you from here - and I would like to say this with respect to the National Representation - that any cases, which have to do with the use of excessive force by the Security Body, will be completely controlled. But, on the other hand, I would also like to say before the National Representation that those responsible for the issues that we saw yesterday and offend the democratic state will even answer to justice. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The second thing I heard and was really amazed, and I did not expect to hear it is that public television was supposed to be correct yesterday. I hope we all understand the limit of hypocrisy. Has ERT ever been able to show the images he showed yesterday and the other day? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Would we ever see on public TV what happened? Fortunately, Greek citizens know very well what happened, what the manipulation of public television was...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u151	We've shown everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u152	Please, Mr Pappas, speak on behalf of the Government and we listen quietly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u153	Everyone knows what the previous government's attitude to public television was and what the current attitude is. Everything has come to the surface, and any excesses, violence, as the Security Councils say, and all that you are giving to the government today, all of it to light. That manipulated public television no longer exists. And let me tell you something...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u154	Every time he's lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u155	If every time he's done interrupting, it means you don't want to finish. It has to end. What do you have, the truth test? It has to be over and you don't have it. Mr. Gerapitri, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u156	I understand that today is a good day for distraction after everything that we have all heard and which has taken place in the Special Committee for a preliminary examination. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is a critical day for this to happen too, to have a little different light where we need to, which is all we are discussing, instead of the government's headquarters operating as a private broker. And how was the government working?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u157	Samaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u158	Is it so hard to hear the speaker? And yet it's so easy. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u159	At that time, of the two government ministers present - from what is concluded for the first time, we have finally come to an end and that there is a community in fact, we have at least agreed that the realities are so - the responsible Minister of Justice and Transparency was in front of the signing of a deal between individuals - why should it be signed at the Maximos Mansion? - which predicted what justice would do in the next steps, anticipating justice decisions! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This is something that rightly provokes Greek society. I'm closing, Mr. President. I will override everything that the Greek people have heard and which the Greek people will judge. I will bypass what has been heard about the famous middle class, which renders reproach to the backbone of Greek society. If you don't want the middle class, renounce it, but you don't have to offend it. So let me say that in all of this, the Prime Minister himself said that he was a man of the creative opposition. The creative opposition included the following terms with all the "a" deprivatives and in a sense I felt that the Prime Minister opened the "alpha" dictionary: autocracy, insecurity, inability, arrogance, arrogance, irresponsibility. So think about two more 'a'. Think of the permissiveness and think of the resilience. What you were saying at the time today is not to change them. And what you have committed in the country and for immigration is to be criticised, because the Greek people do not forget. And because I see that the Chief of Staff Responsibility recently invokes the retired's cafeterias, it is important that he should also be prepared for his political pension if he continues this populist political speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u160	The parliamentary representative, Mr Tsakalotos, will speak on behalf of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u161	Mr Gerapititi, I would also like to address your capacity as a university and your capacity as a liberal - and hence someone who believes in evaluation - and as a responsible for the state that is finally responsible for you, which has an increased competence. And because you believe in evaluation, I would like you to give me some ratings, between '0' and '10', about how the state has gone up here. How has it gone, Mr. Gerapetri, what degree do you give for football? It was a success that two days before a committee decided, did you change it, so that no one could respect its outcome? Do you give ‘2’, ‘3’, ‘4’? How much do you give '10s? I want you to score me in relation to the refugee. How do you score? Higher when you abolished the Ministry of Immigration? Higher when immediately after you brought the Ministry of Migration back? Higher and high, when you sent the MATs that no one asked you to do, or when you got them back? And if you had to send the MATs, why are you now returning the MATs? I would like a rating on how you deal with it, which you tell us that with closed centres there will be greater humanism. When you pulled AMCA out of the kids who couldn't go to the doctor, was that humanity? You're giving this decision a big score? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Let's go to the rights too, Mr. Gerapetiti. And as a liberal, I would like to ask you on that. On an axis where, in position 0, Attila Hunos and in position 10, John Stewart Mill or Rouls - who is your favorite liberal? - the proposal by Mr Petsa, that you would like the closed centers, so that there are no virologies, to liberalism, where do you put it? Closer to Attila Uno, or closer to John Stewart Mill? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Let's go down for the insurance. When the rich leave - an argument that we have in Mr Brutsis and we have told colleagues in the New Democracy - economically speaking, it means that, when rich people can leave the system, the insurance system is no longer universal, because those who are left are those who need it most and those who have the least power to pay for this insurance system and those who have less need and can pay in the private sector. The ultimate state, Mr Gerapetititi, must care for sustainability. When it allows the rich, the richest, to leave the system, it does not ensure this sustainability. And one final score I would like from you for the accountability of the state of service. Give me a score. Who, in the end, is responsible for this government? The ultimate state is something special, so if it doesn't work out, it's gonna fall out on its own? Do the ministers have any responsibility? Can they come here to the House? Can the Prime Minister send them away? Do they have any accountability or do the Prime Minister alone? Where's the accountability in the House? I have heard the terrible argument that the Prime Minister cannot be here because there is a Ministerial Council. Isn't this Parliament the highest body of democracy in this country? Is that something else? Is the Ministerial Council the centre of democracy? Is the Ministerial Council up from the Greek Parliament? Is that what you're telling us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u162	In other words, whenever the House operates, it must not become a Ministerial Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u163	I think that when it's such an important point, when things happen, the Prime Minister must be here. You'd say ten thousand more things if Alexis Tsipras hadn't come. And last score. You must listen to your opponents. Did Alexis Tsipras say that he only denounces the MATs? Is that what you heard? You were here, and you had to hear it, because I heard something completely different, what Alexis Tsipras said. He made a complaint about all the violence that existed on the island. But someone else didn't start this violence. You promoted this violence with your moves. Give me a score for the state, and anyway who has the accountability, where you're addressing it. Because I really want to ask - and that is my last word, Mr President - an apology from the German military staff, because you would not hear my speech yesterday. I said that we had a state like this to see since August 1914, when he promised Germany's general military staff that by Christmas Kaiser would be in Paris and three years later he had taken nothing. In relation to your own final state, I must apologise deeply for the German army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u164	Before I give the floor to the Minister to reply, I would like to make a small announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, and toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" forty-five students and students and two attendants of teachers from the 6th Evrosmos of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please, the Minister of State, Mr Gerapetti, has the floor on behalf of the Government to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you, because it is always a great pleasure and honour to deal with Mr Tsakalotos, who has a very high level of speech. Let me point out at the outset at the very beginning that the Security Body did not withdraw from the islands, they completed their work.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u166	Is it really so hard to watch the government answer? Come on, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u167	What is happening is that the Security Body has strengthened the Armed Forces, which have in fact entered to make the first level levels, so that the contractor can come and build the project substantially. The first phase of the project was therefore completed according to the design. And I am pleased that such a laughter is being provoked on such serious issues. I want to point out about the state at last, Mr. Chakaloto. Obviously we have another perception, because I hear very often - you know, I watch the statistical data of this House and listen carefully to your speech yesterday - that the opposition constantly invokes the ultimate state. You know, the final state is procedures, process, to understand it a little better, it is not the essence of policies - I say it about Mr Tsakalotos - it is not the essence of politics. Whether we are actually choosing a point to build the structure instead of another point, and that turns out to be wrong, it is wrong to make decisions, it is not a matter of the state of staff. The ultimate state is to make the structures and procedures for making the right decisions. So, in this sense and since you have challenged me and it is my pleasure to respond to the final state, to tell you exactly what has happened with the final state and we will assess its score afterwards. Finally, Mr Chakaloto, they become Ministerial Councils. We're starting with this. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And if you think that, because the Chief of Staff Responsibility has come to speak at the time the Ministerial Council is scheduled and we should reassign the Minister to all of us here to listen to the Chief of Officerial Responsibility in his noble 'a', then you will allow me to say that we welcome the Ministerial Council and welcome to the moment. Mr Tsakalotos, you are the excellence of this model which we call the 'Westminster model'. Do you know what a Ministerial Council means? The Ministerial Council is the producer of public policies. You told me about responsibility. Responsibility under the Constitution lies collectively with the Ministerial Council. I imagine that it is not one of the first things you know, as I do not know the economic algorithms. But the Ministerial Council is collectively responsible. So what we are doing is actually to restore the institutions to their constitutional meaning, the one that has evolved in Greece of post-population. And since you tell me about what has happened with the final state, already, Mr Tsakalotos, Greece through the provisions of the Final State Act has been brought into line with the world's advanced administrative systems as it had not happened for two hundred years. For the first time in Greece all individual administrative acts are produced by public officials and not by political persons. Is that what it means? It means limiting bureaucracy by 80%, limiting corruption, because, no longer, the licenses, contracts, public personnel are not controlled by the Minister, but it is controlled by the permanent public administration, which comes from the AACC, the constant, which is not interrupting its flow with the elections. We're becoming an advanced administrative system, Mr. Chakaloto. And can I tell you something? If these are understood as small, I can refer you to the literature, because I know that you are reading a lot. And with regard to the part of the score, I will not mention some of your people, I will mention Max Webber, because what we are trying to introduce is the right reason in the decision-making process, the right reason which has been far from Parliament and the government for many years. And after all, because that is the value of it and not the rating that I make myself, I accept and I hear the rating that you put on me, but above all I accept the rating that the Greek people are putting us, Mr Tsakalotos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u168	He has asked for the floor, as the Rules of Procedure have been entitled, the former President of Parliament. Mr President, Mr Loverdos has asked for two minutes as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u169	I have no problem with that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Loverdos should be given the floor, and then Mr. Butsis will be right after that. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u171	The main issue that caused this debate between the Prime Minister, the Minister of State and the Parliamentary Representative of Officerial Representation was, as we have all heard, the refugee - immigration and security issues. I made a position on this issue on the occasion that Mr Tsakalotos gave me the day before yesterday and said the main positions expressed by the Change Movement for all this situation that has been created in recent years, but also in the last eight months. Mr Minister, as you do, the image of the landing of MATs and of it after two days of withdrawal shows that 'you have made them seas'. In fact, "you've screwed it up." The self-criticism, as you did to abolish the Ministry of Immigration, which was a real mistake, is not a bad thing. By saying that they did their part and depart you caused the laughter of the House. "You've screwed it up." You've been unprepared, and now we don't know exactly what your plan is. However, we are holding another attitude from the post of Officerial Response. We are trying to support our country which faces a problem that changes the political connections between the political systems of all the Member States of the European Union slowly and which the Greek people must understand that its political system with its present relationship, with yesterday's and tomorrow's, understands what is affecting the Greek people and standing next to him. But for that, the President has made relevant speeches and today he has made a special reference. I wouldn't take the floor. I've been covered in her report. I am, however, taking the floor for the way in which you are dealing with criticism of the final state. You're dealing with it by addressing people who don't know. You think so. But I have told you here another time - and when you brought the draft law and I have had the honour of expressing our prolongation, but also on other occasions - that the final state, as you have set it up, is an addition of further bureaucracy, which adds a problem and does not remove. Do not claim that the Ministerial Council is working collectively for the first time. Indeed, Prime Ministers with great authority in their parties and in the political system had abolished it for more than fifteen years. But for many cases of Prime Ministers, which I have in mind both from personal experience and from the point of view of the institutions through this House, I can assure you that the problem created by these political leaders, who have not objected to their word, has been overcome and has many years passed. In order to achieve the collective function of the government, you had no reason to do the further, as you say, to do an extra bureaucratic structure that is afflicting society and which is causing, in addition to what bureaucratic problems have arisen, a government without Ministers, a government with one Prime Minister with two - three ministers - key and nothing else. Please, when we talk about the state at last, at least those who have the courage to say why to know that they are neither addressed to unrelated nor to looters. The criticism is the object of the House and you must accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u173	I too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u174	Mr Gregoriadis, I have already given the floor to the President, and Mr Loverdos spoke to him. You will speak immediately after Mr. Voutsi. And you, Mr. Heta. Thank you for understanding. Mr Voutsis, former President of Parliament, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for two days there has been a debate within the House by many colleagues of all the factions on our islands, and even today there has been a position of a political leader with the well-known - and he has every right - rhetoric, Mr Velopoulos, who was directly opposed to the government, its policies, from a point of view which of course is not the left. You did not feel the need for all these days, the three days that we have been talking about, the presence of a controversy and a justification for these issues and which, on all sides of the House, came the arrows to you. And you did not feel the need in the morning, that there was no Ministerial Council, nor did you, Mr Tsipras, nor - to take them in line - Mr Stefanis, Mr Koumoutsaskos, Mr Metarakis, Mr Chrysochoidis. In particular - and I stress this - you have not felt any need to respond to rhetoric, which is on one side on the other, on the other hand, and which is giving you permanently and every day for not being as hard, in their opinion, as you should. And today we hear that, beyond the islands, you can rent ships and put them in. No need for you to feel. So don't stick to the formality that there might be a two-hour Ministerial Council in today's morning or something. It's about hiding. You hide right in the face of the size of the enormous responsibility, which you understand. You do not accept the chaos, which has also created the risk - the word'militar and well' has been heard in this Chamber a few times - on the limits of civil conflicts. That's the point. You realize your plan is completely blocked. You realise that you have actually made it - it was not aid for the army and machinery - on a departure, in a strong force, in a strong force, in a repression against real protests by the islanders, who, from what I saw today, already host forty-two thousand refugees and immigrants. That's what this is about. So why is that so? In fact, you said that Mr Tsipras was not exposed to the draft, the alternative. I will answer you right away because you may not have heard or been employed by a number of colleagues. Why are you doing this? Because you apply undoubtedly - undoubtedly - both internal and internationally and with our allies, with whom we coexist within the European Union - step by step the logic and strategy of an inhumane deterrence, with all the means by which you can signal, in your opinion, so that there is no further increase in the flows, the penalty and the sacrifice of the people who have been accumulated - souls and bodies - here and come down and down by bombing and the causes for which you are doing not feel responsible here. I felt that in Europe as well. When this debate takes place, we consider that in our destabilised areas, from where these flows are produced, some things have come from God. Does Europe have any responsibility? Doesn't the developed world have any responsibility? Don't gun systems have any responsibility? Do they have any responsibility for those who do and reproduce wars? Nothing. Like things happen to them and they come here. So you have this deterrent strategy and, indeed, closed centres. And you know that very well. The Vice-President of the Government, from morning to night, as many hours as he is, in any media he directly prophesies closed and guarded - says - and night centers. And lock in at noon etc. For closed centres, you have this strategy. You don't tell Mr. Granty to the High Commissioner. It's not in your official rhetoric, on the other hand. At the same time, you are fond of all the perceptions of the extreme right, which you have also pre-electioned. We told you right. We told you a hundred times. You made monsters. I am referring to monstrous policies. I'm not talking about faces. You've made monsters in the communities in an election. You have hated the Prespecies Agreement, the refugee and immigration agreement for four years. Now you can't deal with these. We have full knowledge of the prefecture and region, which was your planning - which you presented to the Europeans too - of the 1% population by the prefecture and of what it will be, such as the former military camps, the 'ESTIA' programme, camps, etc., in which the hospitality and movement to the mainland would take place. And you just don't get the political cost of doing that. And you did the other thing, which Alexis Tsipras said: you chose one region and said: 'Better to have a region and lose it and anything to do with the inhabitants', that is, the islands of the northeast Aegean, our borders. You have chosen this region in cold blood and its inhabitants to suffer what is in place, so that you do not come into conflict and do not have the minimum cost with the monsters you have created, which you have been encouraging for so many years. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It was also heard yesterday and the dread against the 'EXTIA' programme that it is very expensive and, even though they pay it - it says - the strangers do not know how much they will continue to pay. In other words, they are talking about hotels, hotel units and what happened after discussion with the local communities, an issue for which from the first moment, for seven months now, at all levels within the House, we have declared - and some other parties and the Left and the Change Movement - our full support for a substantial dialogue with local communities in order to achieve this relocation in the continental torso. A counter-protect on your part: "But the European Union and Turkey declaration does not permit this because it will put these people at the status of non-return." Excuse me, did you not understand - do you know very well - what happened four and a half years or do you not know that? That is why this very problematic article of this agreement does not know very well that, since they have gone or tolerated the closure of the country's borders, is it just a string and in the sense of humanism and in the sense of handling the rest of the statement? You think they don't know them and they've convicted us? See the official view of the UN High Commissioner three days ago that invites you directly for twenty thousand to be detached from the islands and to get rid of the islands and to go to the mainland. You have a certificate from the European Union and the UN. Who are you telling? Do you know how much we have - as we have been absolutely obliged - been dealing with this case all these years? And I'm doing here a parentheses about something Mr. Loverdos said. This is who supports our country and that we support our country and the difference with what Chakalotos said, not to us, friends of the Change Movement. Because we supported the country on this major issue, in which the European Union has enormous responsibilities. And you know them very well. It's not just Dublin. It is also a matter of not taking over the country's share of responsibility for the agreement, which has been for a thousand other things. In such a context, we supported the country in conditions of crisis, with memoranda and came out unscathed on the basis of the support it had, the understanding of Greek society. We were with society together, with an effective plan, with efforts that we made a month with the month and a problem that we did not create. Because all the Greek society knows very well that the lymphs that were said four years ago, five years ago, have nothing to do with reality, as we "opened and come" that they are melted etc. For you have not forgotten, at least, Mr Gerapetititi - the four missing ministers, the responsible ones may have forgotten - that the Kobani had just fallen and that the flows had just begun, Turkey had three eight hundred. And he opened up the cliffs and there were geopolitical developments and the wars in the region, which evicted these people with the children in the arms of going through. And they found a Greek society with inspiration, with the support of Greek society from left-wing, right-wing, central, but with its inspiration and support for four and a half years of government that supported the country. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That's why Mr. Loverdos is very careful, like other friends from your party, from the Greek Solution. Lessons of patriotism in relation to freedom and homeland the left cannot accept, because in the name of freedom, unfortunately, thousands of people have been set up to the excerpts for their homeland. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And in all the patriotic struggles, whether they were related to external affiliations or related to the underminers of our Constitution and the implementation of "1-1-4" then, the left was and is in the front line. Please, no lessons on this matter! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The former Prime Minister, who is constantly speaking to him - and the future one, I would say, but we are not now for them - has analysed you fully in the public before he came here yesterday, with a statement of the agreed limits and with the partners on whose basis it could and should be made a national plan with the cooperation of the political forces, so that there can be immediate decommissioning and decapitation from the islands and that solutions can be given to the country. He made a public statement yesterday, a public invitation to Mr. Mitsotakis. There was no answer and you started your answer today, saying what to do. But the Chief of Police didn't say so. All international organisations have told you this, all those who have signed international treaties, all those who have the responsibility for Geneva, all those who have agreed with Turkey - the European Union, all the internal decisions of the ECHR, see the announcement of rights, etc., all those who know what is happening to them and all the political forces and you confessed to your papers. You of the Greek Solution, see the programme statements by the Prime Minister, who opened the issue of social inclusion, for which you had the problems in relation to the 1992 demographic report this morning. The question of what should be done is excellent and you made the strategic decision not to do that. So Alexis Tsipras has proposed that you remove the MATs, get rid of the islands, go to an agreed solution and help, in consultation with the local communities and with every society how long it can take, so that we can then have the courage to go to Europe and say how much each country can afford, socially, economically. They've signed the deal, but they don't respect it, Mr. Gerapititi. The agreement on dividends and dividends is not respected by the countries of the European Union, with few exceptions. What do we do about it? This is an extremely national issue that wants to be political and strategic on the part of all of us. So the proposal was repeated today by the President of SYRIZA in the most official way, with absenteeism of those who were listening to it, but with you present, who have a first responsibility, say, for relations within the Ministerial Council. And you stand up and say we didn't hear what we had to do. You know that in details of what we had to do. That's what this is about. Mr Tsakalotos said earlier in relation to whether there was a condemnation of events, violence, the Security Body, etc. And yesterday, and today, from a step forward, inclusively - absolutely see the Minutes, please very much - the Chief of Police Vice-Population was very clear. He referred to the individual but serious incident of people entering the hotel of people, say, at night, and there were preconflicts. He was referred to by a step of the House. Okay, you're not coming, they're not coming, but not watching and creating impressions, it's not right. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, and excuse me. I repeat: it is a major issue and it comes from the future. Understood. It is not only the wars that we tolerate or for which Europe is in full apathy and inability to have a role of peaceful in its region, which is shaping destabilisation and monitoring all developments. But it comes from the climate and you know it very well. In conditions of heat shock there will be 48 to 52 degrees Celsius after twenty-five years in the Middle East, not in sub-Saharan Africa. There'll be million-dollar flows. It is a major European, international, human and social issue and certainly national issue. It's our thing. Open your horizons. It's incomprehensible. When I first entered the Parliament here in 2012, and I heard Mr Samara's dreadful plan to become a South wall, an alliance of the South that will take money from the North to prevent these flows. It would be an incredible thing, a monster. It has been analysed for eight years after the country's experience in this matter, we are returning hiding unforgettablely to the same terrible, inhumane strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u176	Mr Grigoriadis has been asked for the floor for a few minutes, and then Mr Heitas, as Parliamentary representatives of their groups, and then we will be in the balance of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will not tire this House, as I do not usually wear it. Mr President, we in Mera25 think that when we are in politics, or if you prefer the exercise of the administration, we are making a very fat mistake. The best option is to admit it and be politely apologies. It's the best option for both those who made our mistake and for us. I say this because I am surprised that this morning I read and thought it was a 'carabinato', with the forgiveness of the government's market expression, that the MATs left Lesvos and Chios after they completed their work. I thought that mistakes were made, but when I heard the Minister repeat it ten minutes ago, here in the Chamber, you should consider exactly what the work that the MATs have done and completed. He laughs at the pan-Hellenic you know about them, because the work we have all seen on our TVs or social media, but also on the state channels, is a work that contains beatings, attempted forest fires, breakage of personal property of citizens sitting and drinking coffee in adjacent coffee. I would like to say that if the government seriously wants to keep arguing, saying that the MATs left coordinates and as they were meant to leave because they completed their work, then it should explain to us what work it is that they completed. Because the only project that they completed was the attempt to destroy two islands and our islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, too. Mr. Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u179	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is tragic, Mr President, that you really listen to those who have failed and proved to be in practice, because the Greek people have not voted for them, who have hard criticism, and who are swinging the finger on those who are now failing. And you know, Mr President, this is the big problem in our country. That we have failed governments for the last 40 years. And the only thing they're engaged in is in intercategories. They are the same, they are the same governments, they have been the same for all these last forty-five years. They're no different to anything. So the former Prime Minister moved the finger to the current government for incredible things. At some point I say, do I live in another country? In other words, they give a "yellow card" that beat the islanders, the ones that beat the Greeks in the Prespes. It's never happened before! They have a selective memory. And all this for the sake of their own party interest. That is the difference between us, that is, that we above all put our country's good. Also, Mr Gerapetti, I would like to say this because you have recently dealt with football. I'm sorry to say it, but you've probably lost the ball on illegal immigration. I cannot believe that in the Greek Parliament the Minister of State is taking the floor and says the forces of MAT have left the islands because they have completed their work. I understand that you are in great pressure and you and you personally, if you wish, but, to God, notice what you say. The islanders are crying. We had body battles between Greeks - I won't say MATs or islanders - for the sake of illegal immigrants! And we had wounded. What I said the other day: subsidies to illegal immigrants, wood to Greeks. Please, the solution is one: we here, Mr President-in-Office of the Parliament, and you are well aware that I have a very high appreciation - we do not give lessons of patriotism. Our President, Kyriakos Velopoulos, mentioned earlier - to come to you - on the left. He didn't refer to you. SYRIZA's got nothing to do with the Left. Never a left party, Mr. Voutsi, would have signed memos. The Left would never cut pensions. The Left would never give the name of our Macedonia, the patriotic Left you invoke. The Left would never sign military agreements with the United States. The Left, from the streets and the marches against NATO and America, would never get selfie out with Piat. No one left would do that! That would be a neoliberal party, like you, SYRIZA, the mutant, Mr President. Because, at a unanimous conclusion - and I am coming back to what Kyriakos Velopoulos raised earlier - the committee of Parliament - is not our creation - for the demographic year 1993, it is said that the decline in births now seriously threatens the renewal and perpetuation of our Greek race. Then you were talking about race. If you've changed since then to SYRIZA - because it's your signature here too - tell us. However, with all due respect, she's not left. We talked about the Left, which could also be patriotic. You left are not even patriotism classes. Mr. Gerapitritis, apply the model indicated by the President of the Greek Solution and the Greek Solution since the first day, since July. You're wasting time and you're screwed up. You have the Greeks hit each other and it's a pity and unfair. The decisions must be tough. Close the border. Not as you say you will. Close the border. Transfer all these illegal, illegal immigrants to uninhabited islands with structures, with feeding and health care. Close the NGOs, which are four hundred and not eighty two you recorded. I'm recording another one, and I'm shutting down the illegal ones. You are also deporting illegal immigrants - and I am closing with this, Mr President - on the basis of the recent judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. Deportation of illegal immigrants! What don't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u180	I would ask Mr Papachristopoulos to be a little more patient, because Mrs Rapti, the Parliamentary spokesman for the New Democracy, will speak. He obviously needs to talk. Immediately afterwards, we'll be in line. Here, Mrs. Rapt, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u181	Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Tsakalotos a question, addressing him as Parliamentary spokesman for the rest of the SYRIZA parliamentary group, and ask him to comment on specific reports which have seen the light of publicity on the eve of the arrival of the police forces. In particular, I have in my hands a document which I shall give it. "A call to the citizens of Mytilini addressed a moment ago the coordinator of the SYRIZA Lesvos prefecture." And I read: "The islands of the northern Aegean, Lesvos and Chios are for the first time since the Second World War and the attempt to get off the English fleet in 1944, in an emergency. The inhabitants of the two islands are on the foot, the villages are held by popular assemblies and bells are bells bells to mobilize the world and prevent the invaders from getting off at the ports of the island. The world is being organized to cope with this incredible demonstration of power by the Mitsotakis Government against the islanders themselves who have accepted the imposition of prison centres on their islands. The conflict is inevitable. The islands must be supported by all the rest of Greece in their struggle against violence and authoritarianism of the government." I ask, Mr Tsakalotos: are you also moralists of these incidents that took place the other day? Are you, in fact, also accomplices to some of us and stimulants?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u182	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u183	A little serious!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u184	Why, when powers come along, of course, peacefully and not to hit anyone and face such an incitement, someone is reasonablely asking: were these incidents, or have you, in these ways, been spontaneously instigated? Because there was a lot of publications, which I would like you to comment on and tell me if you agree with them, since he is also the representative of the SYRIZA Prefectural Committee, who obviously gives them to the public. I would also like you to comment on this: I heard here the Chief of Officer's Representation not asking for an apology when he said that a special guard entered the university and had his gun assigned to students. Is that the truth of the events that took place or have he been chased by thirty hoods inside the university and begged for mercy before he had to take his service revolver, which he legally owns and twenty-four hours a day is entitled, if he is in defense, to use it? I would like you to tell me, then, whether this is something that you accept, and if, of course, an apologies were needed in this Chamber, not for us New Democracy Members, but for all those who are fighting with the EUR 700 and 800 to impose order on a complete anarchy and indiscipline, which you have been enslaved throughout your own governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u185	After the circle of the Parliamentary Representatives...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u186	Mr President, I am not going to answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Chakaloto, you know very well that there are rhetorical questions. Questions are rhetorical. We will now call the long-awaited Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u188	Mr. President, is SYRIZA motivated?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u189	That's what the papers say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u190	He asked some questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u191	But the remaining Members should also speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u192	The picture is that there are still five colleagues left. Then we have the words of the rapporteurs. We have time. Don't worry. Here, Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by saying that I respect Mr. Gerapetti, I'm watching him. Sometimes, of course, when conditions are difficult, however rhetorical they may have, they cannot bring them back. But I forget that, and I would like to recommend to him that he read a book, "The eight deadly sins" of Conrad Lawrence. He's an Austrian Nobel Prize, Professor...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u194	I know him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u195	...who, in this book, had written it sixty years ago, almost mathematically, had predicted the massive movements of populations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u196	And others before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u197	What do I want to tell you? Most of it was said by Alexis Tsipras and then by Nikos Voutsis. We doctors are practical people. If we don't do the last stitch, we don't start any surgery. I am going to propose to you, as I understand it, because the problem is continuing and there is. You currently have five islands convicted of you around forty-five thousand people. A lot of people say you have more. Listen to my proposal, if you're kind. I think it's a useful proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u198	I hear you carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u199	On July 6, this number was ten thousand. I'm not making any criticism, I'm not commenting. I didn't come here to criticize. Make it simple: Greece has fifty two laws. I remove Evros and all the islands bordering Turkey. They have more than thirty thousand afflicted people. If you get six hundred and place them in every county, you'll have no problem. I'm not making this proposal to show myself. Years I have been at the "Doctors of Peace", I have visited almost all these countries and I know exactly how they think and what they're doing. Six hundred people if you take, depending on the population of every prefecture, Grevena and Attica will not get the same. There's no need for a requisition. No one will protest. When I say no one, I mean no one. Not closed centers, Mr. Gerapitri. For Christ's sake! Where did it sound? Charge is a stage before the dictatorship. You need to know, you're an educated man.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u200	The constitution says so, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u201	I say again, you're an educated man, and the order is a prototype before I reach the absolute dictatorship. I would also like to say to you that the European Union has already realised that Dublin II is a stupid one. In your hand is to negotiate and win it very quickly. Don't argue with defeat, that's what it is and it doesn't work out. It's possible, Mr. Gerapitri. I'm telling you right away, it's happening. Nikos Voutsi told you on a point of view. I'm telling you that you have the opportunity to negotiate this. Thirdly, if this is what you are doing right away - you have a terrible alibi in all the countries of the European Union. "Become gentlemen, I took the thirty thousand of them into every county of my territory. I expect you to do what you have agreed for years from the twenty-seven countries..." and hit the hand at the table. That's a proposal of mine. I'm telling you right away, it's fast. Open your ears. We weren't all born. We didn't know everything when we were born. I respect your inexperience. But it doesn't. It touches the limits of the risk, this inexperience. Think of this proposal I'm telling you. No one feels unjusted, i.e. who is in Corfu, who is in Arcadia, Corinthia. It won't be heard. Nothing will be heard of six hundred people. They're being absorbed immediately by the community. Immediately! I don't want to go any further. However, I would like to say to you, Mr Gerapettritis, because I have heard you raise the tone when Alexis Tsipras spoke here with pain of soul, in favour of the policemen who entered the house when they were sleeping. Unless you didn't understand. I've got you for an intelligent man. I mean, what to do! I told you this isn't a picture. It doesn't honor the Greek police to enter the civilians and beat the cops. In favor of the cops, he talked to you. If you didn't understand, I'm telling you to understand it. Furthermore, because you used an argument that I believe was your fault: you said something about distraction. Because I'm on this committee, I want you to know one thing. I pray for Mioney because he is in a very difficult position too. I felt sorry for him. I was listening to him eight hours yesterday. I want to remind you of three facts about this case you said, so comfortably for distraction: First, in position 974 of the Lagard list there was a name. It's the name of his private secretary or a clerk named Pantellis Maria. Listen a little...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u202	We're here for the insurance policy today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u203	Don't interrupt me. I want to be exposed. Let go of me. Take the floor then and say it. On the account of this lady, 562.896 000 money was found, for which he was justified, he admitted it, he said "they are mine". Just a simple difference. He was quietly hiding that story. A reporter took it off. He was obliged in front of the reporter not to say a word. The second thing Mr. Mioney did was the day we called him for an apology in the pre-examination, on the same day, he sued four people, while he was intervening seven months that he could sue. It was a nightless display of sensitivity by a man, who I am telling you directly, looking for a Swiss bank, a man who the ILO has entered the offices three to four times, confiscated him, is a man in a bad position. And it's no accident he's flying like a butterfly. He flew to Mr. Samaras, then flew to Papandreou next to us and went by saying. This man is in a bad place. And don't give up on Nikos Pappa. Nikos Pappas wasn't hiding anywhere to see him directly. He saw him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u204	I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u205	You didn't say that, no. That's none of your business. It's about someone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u206	For Mr. Papagelopoulos, tell us about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u207	Don't interrupt. Mr. President, do I have some time?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u208	You have five seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u209	Just? Not two minutes to say two words about the insurance? And I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u210	Okay, you got a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u211	I'm allowed by the President. If I may be allowed by the President. Why do you know I was patiently waiting, don't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u212	For Papagelopoulos, tell us about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u213	He waited patiently for this, and he talks loudly, because "you're a little surprised, having talked in your pockets!"
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u214	Because you're causing me for Mr. Papagelopoulos, I'm going to tell you something. If you have the courage instead of putting Papagelopoulos, who's twenty-first in the ministerial class, I would like you to explain to me why he organised this construction that you're saying? What did he have to do with it? If you really think there's someone else behind you, don't hide. Don't hide, go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u215	Who do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u216	Who do I mean? You have photographed Alexis Tsipras and caused you in front of ten thousand people. And he told you "I'm here, take me to the special court". Don't cause me right now. You don't have any clues. You're cowards. You're cowards! I conclude with the insurance, and I see the tone, and I say to you: I was really anxious to see that the bill was paid to private colleges by Mrs Keramemos, when I saw that Mr Kikilia's bill was paid off at the public hospitals with the PPPs, I was expecting 'a long delay in the matter of insurance'. Oh, well, what do I see? With what you legislate, what are you doing? You're urging a big piece to go to the private sector. And I say 'Here they are, here they are people'. Euclid told you ten times. What I want to say is this and I consider it very important and I am one of those who will be the first to that impression. I remember the work - and I end with it, Mr President - 'Modern Times', where Charlie Chaplin put the screws, worked twelve hours a day, and when he went home he had been retarded. I waited sixty years later that eighty-six people on the planet would not have any assets as much as half the poor planet three and a half billion. I was expecting that the hours would have come down, it would have been eight, nine, ten hours. It's gonna be thirty-five hours, as Chaakalot told you, so he has some time to think about how to save this planet. If you don't understand. Because the man who works, who spits blood because he can't live, doesn't think. It's burning right now - and you know it very well - the Amazon...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Papachristopoulos, time is up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u218	Your Honor, I'm just finishing up. ...Australia burns down, burns up Alaska, burns everything, and you've come to reason that the rich are less richer and richer and throw into the trash the people who are already below the poverty line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the top Western theories we are attending our meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, and toured at the exhibition of the "ELETERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 6th High School of Thessaloniki (Second Chamber). We welcome you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please come to Stepma, Mr Snowides Savvas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we must have our minds in history a little backwards so that we can finally see why insurance reforms did not go ahead. And I'm going back to Sprau Committee, I'm going back to the Yannitsi Committee with the reasonable suggestions, the Reppa Law, the great fight that Fani Petralia has done to the Karamanlis government, the Katrugalou law. So there is a history. People'sism is true it's the worst. It is very bad, however, at the same time and to back up, because we fear the reactions of the populists. That is what took us back so many years and there was no courage from the governments concerned to make these areas so that we could operate under the rule of common sense. So, what are the main features of this draft law? That first of all he records and has an analogy study. It is a great prerequisite, even if some doubt certain elements or others say that it is satisfying. It is important that there is the basis on which we build. It takes into account farmers, people with disabilities, widow's pensions and takes into account the primary sector as a whole and puts the remuneration of the contributions. This will help younger people in the first five years, so that they can have more expectations, start with less burdens of a career. What I would like to stand by, which scares me, Minister, on the part of the proportionate study is just one. And that's a big deal even bigger than insurance. It is the future projection of the level of the population of Greece and of the ingenuity, which we also identify as a very serious study gives evidence. It is a major issue for Greece, which is now clearly recorded in this draft law by a very high-level scientific group. This is a big issue, and that will also solve the pensions issue and the insurance issue, but also the welfare of the country. It is an issue to which all sides of Parliament must give an important foundation. What I also wanted to dwell on is what reform is. We heard on the one hand that it's not reform, it's the Katrugalou law. The other side says it's getting better. Others say it's reform. So let's set the terms and make it clear. Reformation is not only changes made on the basis of a proportionate study. The major reform of this draft law is the adaptation to self-evident, the adaptation to common sense, the adaptation to new technologies and possibilities. And I ask: is it reform when you have three years to get your pension and soon you will be able to see how much pension you are going to get and as soon as you deposit your papers you can move on? That's reform! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is not a reform that will be managed at EUR 100, EUR 50 or EUR 20 above or below. These are arranged and can be carried out in the course of remedial action. Because we believe in this government, we believe in the prospects, we believe in development and development, and our insurance system, and it will guarantee it even more. So this is the great reformist, what the New Democracy and the Government are calling and supporting, what is called a digital transition now. It is self-evident for other regions. So here, Minister, and I want you to take care of me, I would like to stand from now on. Eleven years now we have entered the block cain procedures that were born 11 years ago, the array chains. It is a democratic way of dealing with everyone so that the citizen can have information directly without intermediaries. I would therefore suggest that in this huge effort you are making to use technologies in the fourth industrial revolution, to move forward from Estonia, which even uses data bases and clouds, we should be able to get into the times of the block cain and artificial intelligence. These are, they're ready, there's solutions. Read "FORBES" today, read what "NAYTTERRIC" did at the conference she held here for the human resources. So let's see these things and let's not be afraid of us. We must make the revolution, this revolution that is coming, and not once again to be transgender. And a second thing I told you personally, both to you and to your partners. This fear, the fear of the people's reaction to giving a million or more files outsourcing, to be able to work. They ask our offices the reasonable reason that "do something because I did not retire for two and a half years". He tells me a new scientist "August I submitted my papers to the CSMEDA. I want to pay and they tell me we can't register you." That's what you received, Minister. These things will change radically. But the world demands, and we demand it, and we all want it in this Chamber in a few months' time. To be able to pay, collect what he worked for all these years. So I think that this logic is a huge reform. Because, under the Rules of Procedure of the House, we are only entitled to talk to the Members of Parliament about other issues, today in this Chamber most of the conversations were not made about something very important in terms of the lives of many Greeks, this is the choice of everyone. The last person I judge is me. We Members of Parliament must, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, first not read, and secondly, not leave on other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u221	Don't be diagnosed. You are absolutely right to point it out because some read the morning in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u222	So, Mr. Giuleka. I would like to stress something about the refugee in the logic of not forgetting Sprao, or Yannitsi or Fani Pallie - Petralia because he has put breasts in front of the Karamanlis government. I want to remind you of one thing. Eleven years ago on immigration, a Prime Minister at the Council of Heads of State in Europe raised the major issue of immigration, Kostas Karamanlis and some of them mocked him then. It is an issue that Europe should not be petty about, an issue that we are paying for because the fire is burning where it falls. It has now fallen in Greece, on the Greek islands. But if Europe and the pressures of our own, which we have the reason to be vigilant in order to allow the smuggling settlement of our islands, as well as the entry, we have every reason to press in this direction which the Greek Government had foretold by the then Prime Minister of Costas Karamanlis at the Board of Chiefs. Because climate migration is also here the immigrants of the wars. And this, in addition to all others, we do not put the human factor which is the number one, however much we love the people that hurt, cannot raise Greece in its backs no matter how much love it has. If anyone wants and completely economical, which I don't like, he can't pay for these things because we have to face poverty here too. We still share arrays and Greece stood up to step on its feet. So I agree, I approve with the Ministry. Of course, Minister, and you have feared a little populism and I will tell you. Is it bad for all those who were former prefectures, mayors, and does it not concern me personally, that these people do not have the right to see them in a positive way? Because they also deposited time and life. I hope and believe that soon you will see it more positively and be sure that when you have the right populist and no populist reaction, you will not stand in the way of the excellent course you are writing with this law and on the whole path. You started in 2014 setting the foundations and you continue today in a dynamic way. We are here all with the new technologies, the political will of our Prime Minister Mrs Mitsotakis to do what must be done for Greece. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u223	We close the circle of speakers, fellow Members of Parliament, before entering the cycle of the second readings of both the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives, with Mr Costas Gioulekas, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u224	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am pleased that I am succeeding in the step by a colleague who, with a narrow voice, has tabled his opinion. You know, I planned to talk about the insurance business exclusively. But, before that, we heard the former Prime Minister, the Chief of Anti-Population, also referring to the insurance and, more generally, to the events that have taken place in the last few days. I should like to take this opportunity, especially by borrowing from what Mr Tsipras said, by lending a characteristic phrase from Mr Tsipras, by addressing the ministers of the government, who said: 'are you proud of what you are doing?' and ask: Is Mr. Tsipras really proud of the law of Katrugalo? He's proud of why he cut off the pensions? Is he proud of why he created two speed pensioners in May 2016? Is he proud, and of course all SYRIZA's repressive MPs, Mr. Tsipras, why did they cut the widow's pensions? Are they proud of why the social benefits were cut? They're proud of why the wheelchairs were cut off? If they feel proud to say so. Tell it at this step. Why, you know? He reminded me - and I was even listening to Mr Tsipras with particular attention, as he is, of course, former Prime Minister, Chief of Police Vice-President - as if he were addressing some others or at any rate citizens who have very little memory. But they just handed over power last July! Four and a half years were ruled. They didn't make it? What didn't catch up with them? They didn't allow it? Was the surveillance there? There were - they said - Mr Thompsen, Mrs Lagard, Mrs Merkel. Well, wouldn't you send them home, ladies and gentlemen of the Police Department? "go back madam Merkel" did you forget? Not only did you not send them to their homes, but you were going as an honest instrument in Hilton to take orders and follow them. Because he also talked about social justice and said Mr. Tsipras "You don't call it social justice all," referring to some insurance regulation, I would say that you don't really call it social justice. But you are not saying social justice when in the first half of 2015 you left the Greek people with 100 billion, an unjust debt! Well, it is not social justice, Mr Tsipras: it is not social justice, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. As it is not social justice that you have mortgaged the public property for ninety years! It is not social justice that you have managed to secure bloody surpluses at the place. In any case, it is not social justice that you left-wingers voted on a third memorandum. I was listening to a colleague from the Greek Solution earlier to mention this. He said: "Are you left?" A third memorandum. And of course you have charged the Greek people with an extra 9 billion burdens on the already unbearable burdens he has lifted. So if all of this was social justice for you, and if all of this for you had one excuse that you had to do it when the obligations were over, why didn't you make it up to me? And why didn't you make it? Now you blame us. Why? Because we are applying what you have announced you are going to do. Yeah, we announced we'd do it and do it. I don't think this thing could really endure an exhausting logic. How's the new insurance? It does bring a balance to the system. If one listens to one side, the side of the Officerial Response, one will realize that "you know, you are leveling the incident". If he hears others from the government party, he will understand that there is a reform. Where is the reality? In fact, there is an attempt to change many bad texts in this place. We'll be judged by the result. But wait. Don't even condemn the effort before it even starts. I'll say very quickly, in all the minutes we have left, what this insurance is doing. First, he manages to make contributions equivalent to the Greek pension. It is important that pension expenditure is being attempted as a percentage of GDP to be on the average of European countries, which we have abstained from over the years. That's what he's trying to do. And he's trying to do that, the Minister who had started these steps, Mr. Brutsi. Mr. Brutsi, honestly, for what you're doing, it's worth waiting to see the result. And they're very important. Like what Mr Snowides said earlier. So, we're proud that someone's going to retire and waits two and three years? Is it wrong that with ATLANTA, we will be able to give the first pensions in June of this year quickly? Why is it bad? Why, then, this devotion? So why is all this criticism from the point of view of Officerial Response? And in any case, do you see anywhere that there are reductions? This is the first time - the first time - that some retired people are getting raises. However, no pension is reduced. Why is that bad? I do not understand that, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition and, in particular, of the Opposition Officer. No, it's not bad. It is important that these steps are taken. As it is important that this social security reform, as we call it - the attempt, if you like, to the more moderate - concerns all workers and significantly favours the pensioners of tomorrow, those who have completed at least thirty years of working life. In fact, with the new insurance company's vote and on 4 October retroactively, the main pensions for retired or retired will also be increased with more than thirty years of insurance. Who will benefit from all this? Approximately three hundred thousand pensioners, all of whom are old pensioners, were retired before May 12, 2016. Then, that is, that the Katrugalu law, the SYRIZA law, the law of Alexis Tsipras, the left government of Alexis Tsipras, separated pensioners at two speeds and said that those who did not get a pension will receive a reduced pension of 42%. That was the social justice of the previous government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u225	The bell's ringing itself. It's automatic, and I can't cut it. You can complete it with comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u226	I'll be right over. I totally understand you. What else is going on? The pension thresholds are not affected, first of all. It's essential to say some things because people are watching us. The architecture of the system remains the same. In any case, the return on the system is significantly improved and the insurance is disconnected from the tax. Here we had become punishable insurance for anyone with income. He said, if you have such an income, you'll pay so much, but you won't get a corresponding salary. Here it comes now, and it is really an injustice that everyone will be able to choose and that their income has nothing to do with the contributions. But the taxation of income, which must of course be more taxed than the one who has the ability to pay more to the state, like the Constitution demands, the country's Charter, and another the insurance system that you have turned it into a tax. Well, isn't that a restoration to an injustice that existed? Who are the winners? Also, won are about a hundred, maybe a hundred twenty thousand retired people, who came out after May 13, 2016. They are also encouraged - we must say that - and those who serve in special services of the Armed Forces - frogmen, cruisers, fireworks, etc. - because they're not affected by the new insurance. And that's how it should be done, to God! Here, unfortunately, we have reached the point in the years of the crisis that flight allowances are being cut off by our pilots, which was a shame. Unfortunately, this has happened too. All these things are restored. What I have to add - and to close - is that there is a very serious effort that the insurance system really delivers new pensions, which not only will they not be reduced, but in many cases they will also be considerably increased and will be seen in their wallet, in their pockets, by pensioners. It's an effort very important. Mr. Brutsis, congratulations on this effort. In fact, we hope that the results of this effort can be enjoyed not only by the current pensioners, but also by pensioners from now on, since pensions are secured by 2070. And that's not what we say, is that the proportional study also says it is an economic study from the University of Piraeus, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Brutsis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u227	Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u228	Athens, forgive me, who really advocate that by 2070 Greek pensioners ensure their pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u229	We have completed the list of fellow Members that we have not counted, but have exceeded 50. They spoke, in my view and in the view of the whole Bureau, in a comfortable manner, as well as the rapporteurs in a comfortable time and time. Now we will continue with even more comfort, because the bill was great, there are no limitations, the times of the prototypes are eradicated and we start from scratch, and all the rapporteurs will take second-hand time for ten minutes, as well as the parliamentary representatives - I say beforehand - to arrange for their speech. Firstly, I call on the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Economou, to take the step for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, I will not be tempted to comment on the non-legislative positions, even though there were many and interesting things that have been heard. I will remain strictly as rapporteur in my second thoughts on the insurance bill, which, anyway, offers a great deal to say. I have not expanded too much in my first speech, and I shall try in dentistry to be able to answer some questions. The debate, of course, does not have, as you can see, its autonomy only in plenary, but the debates in the committee also took precedence over them. We had the bodies who, for the first time from the whole spectrum, social, professional, economic came and gave us their opinion on the insurance bill. It was before the House, before the House, the debate in society more widely with public consultation, but we must say that this bill is a lot of talk. We all have a bit of an opinion - very much, the issues we have put together and we have them, and everyone has his opinion and his viewpoint. Of course, in observing those who have sat here all three days, listening to the hundreds of fifty fellow Members, but more to the parties responsible for the political position on the insurance, we see differences and adjustments. But SYRIZA said in a few minutes - and I'm going to interpret this because it did - or else he took it to committee first, or he came here to plenary, and I don't know if he's going to leave plenary. However, we certainly didn't hear from those responsible in the debate that it's another Karugalou law. Here, now, accepts the Civic Opposition that there are new data, we have entered a new era, a new law. Do you want to call him Bruce, which will, in fact, get stuck with his legislative structure? I really think that's what we're gonna call it, Brutsi Law. That's a new beginning, it's a new given. Neither Mrs Ahtsioglou, nor Mr Tsakalotos, who I see here patiently all these days, could continue in this account, but could not continue with it, that "all right, you did nothing, there is the basis of the Katrugalos Act, so you have not brought any great, great legislative reform". They couldn't, because the former Prime Minister himself said that we are talking about new marches, new constructions, new perceptions and baptisms - because in the baptisms he is very good - and he fixed it before and now anticipating it. However, in fact, we have new data. Second retreat: You came out with the flag that the commensurate studies of the Katrugalo Law were given, and therefore, you stepped on a solid ground. The ground was slippery, it was swamped, and there you jumped. The result, in plenary, you forgot about this paper in the English you sent us, a text as an analog study and a storm of Members' positions...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u231	We said it once and it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u232	I am not saying for you, you are very careful, I say about the line taken by the MPs, who really with the line they took feedback on your party's main line. So they didn't remember the analogy of Karugalos again, they accepted the data. Who? That we have the first time in the chronological proportional study with "docked" now the level of justification and support of this bill. You claimed: "our own digital pension, as well as the overall implementation, i.e. the new data, e-ECA" and with guaranteed EDF funds you have valued the project. I will tell you that the digital pension may have been at the edge of your mind, such as many things in this world, but you understand that you do not patent anything when you have at the end of your mind, only when you start and implement it and not just by cutting off a ribbon, but when it becomes an estate of the Greek people. Here, then, we have the regulation of e-Government, we have e-ECA as a first and very important development for unifying both the main pensions and the supplementary and one-off pensions. This is a new given given to the country's insurance map, a new architecture that you have really approached with the decisions, the Katrugalos Act and the decisions that later, namely, the unification of the 13 main pension funds into the EU has really been an interesting one, but implementation and, as the subject has evolved in the four years, has not succeeded in the result that the world, the pensioners, the insured, would have expected. Where have these arguments been taken at committee level? They went to a new line of defense. The position and attitude you have taken is very defensive. What's that line? First, the novel theory that Mr Katrugalos himself said that yes, it is unconstitutional, but in his region and not in the core. So his region is unconstitutional and I was caught in four offside points, so to speak sportingly, but my core has not been touched. This is a theory that I really cannot understand very much, as of course I cannot understand it, and the thousands of refugees in the Council of State who have, of course, been vindicated by the decisions - not to mention them again - who were really such decisions that the Brutsi Act should have or should not have to deal with them. But this is where we have new data and he's dealing with them. It is really the first time that a legislative framework has come to deal with and embrace decisions of supreme courts, and they are polite, do you want to do so, why not? Because they restore injustices of a previous legislative framework and unfair conduct by the government at that time and the state against thousands of our compatriots. The Council of State restored these uncertainties and your problematic approaches through its decisions and now comes the law and makes them a status, makes them operational within our country. I'm not going to comment on the line I heard from most of the SYRIZA speakers, that it's all about the media. This theory, that it is my fault "SKAI" and "ANDENA" and I do not know who else is because what we are talking about here and we are talking about in the cafes with the pensioners, as Mr Tsipras said, is things that do not come out as a result and for you this is a problematic element. I would say that it is the journalists' fault and the channels, because we have a lot of time ahead of us. What are you going to say in the second and third years? However, let's go to the essence of the issue of insurance in relation to the line of defence, as I told you. The big debate on the third pension. Really, Mr. Chakaloto, I appreciate you, you know that. But because we have an orange pie between us that unites us, in love I will always invite you to eat it, but after I read what you yourself said about the thirteenth pension. So I read that in December 2016, Minister of Finance Euklides Tsakalotos - are you not? - it makes it clear to European officials that the thirteenth pension is a one-off payment and there is no intention of being a permanent part of the pension reform. It's your statement, which you know why you did it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u233	That was for the dividend.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u234	You did it for the thirteenth pension. You've got it all mixed up. In SYRIZA you had confused it all: the dividend for 2017 and 2018, the first announcement of the 15th pension in 2016, which you took back, after taking his ear by Mr. Tsipras. And I read it here, which says in September 2016, recalling the programme of Thessaloniki that "the over-reimbursement of revenues enables the government to redistribute socially and first to the low-retired, those who since 2010 have seen their pensions fall. With the announcement this evening the government, "SYRIZA, is doing its old proclamation for the thirteenth pension, as today's measure comes just before Christmas celebrations." This before Christmas 2016. After the faces fell - I will say this, popularly - from the bosses, let me say from the people you were working with then, the troika, the institutions, you know what the political giant, then Prime Minister of the country, Tsipras, said on December 15, 2016? What did Mr Tsipras say in Brussels? ‘This Decision was taken with complete security vis-à-vis the objectives of 2016. It's a single decision. It has now been taken that we have had this exceptional result of overcompensation of revenues against objectives.' In other words, Mr. Tsipras, who remembered the thirteenth pension in September 2016, just surrounded by his very good friend, the troika, did it one-off, tried it again in 2017 and in 2018 to say it again and made a social dividend, and now the smart one - but not to say very heavy words - the wicked state-runner to come to us in May 2019, shortly before leaving his last government, to institutionalise the thirteenth pension. Let me tell you something, Mr. Chakaloto. If the government comes now and makes a 30% increase in wages - to satisfy the JRC - which costs 10 billion and we do not have 10 billion because of the country's situation, and we put 100 million money into the money, but on condition that the next ones give 10 billion and 20-year-old increases for 20%. How would you tell them today if they did that? Do you know what you'd call them? Like there's a soul here in the Chamber, political crooks. That's how you'd tell them and you'd be right. Should we also tell those who did so in May 2019, a few days before they left their last? And do you know what the strangest story is? That the world really didn't pinch and that gives us hope for some things. I want to submit it to the Minutes. This is for Mr. Tsipras and this is for Mr. Tsakalotos, my friend, who actually said it just in 2016. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilios Economou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I hear here that the 1,000 000 which we have said about the previous government's insurance obligations towards the next government, namely, the present one, are mysterious. I really want to submit the reply of the Ministry on October 21, 2019, by taking the information from all the services of the Ministry, to Mrs Rapti and Mr Jikalaya, who say what the unfinished business is until August 2019. It's about the main pensions 189.851. Is it wrong, Mrs. Ahchioglu, those numbers? Auxiliary pensions, 87.591. That's what it says about loose ends. Single, 36,064, not to mention the rest, widow's pensions 2,688 etc., totalling 1,058,000. We have not come here to plunder or exaggerate the figures to break the profile of your own minister and of course of the SYRIZA period. We came to say that the problems were objective, they were huge, and the current government gives a titanic struggle to deal with them. If you do not accept, by self-criticizing, the problems you have left, the problems will not be solved. I want to submit that to the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilios Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I close with two comparisons, because really if we don't talk about numbers and we don't say specific things, each one will say 'his long and short' here, in this Chamber. I will also present them to the House for every colleague who wants to read them in detail. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So I take examples of pensions. At EUR 700, after thirty-three years, the law of Mr Katrugalo and Mrs Ahtsoglou would give a pension of EUR 598. You know, Mr. Chakaloto, how much will the Brutsi Act give? He'll give 612 euros, 14 euros more. EUR 1 000 after thirty-three years, Mr Katrugalos' 690 would have been EUR 707, 17 above. It's 17 euros more than that, though!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u235	The month.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u236	The month.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u237	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u238	Allow me a little, Mr President. At EUR 1,500, the EUR 843 pension on Katrugalou would be EUR 869, 25 above. Can we get the contributions now? For 700 euros, do you know how much the difference would be? From EUR 657 would be EUR 698, i.e. EUR 49 over 30 eight years. At 774 it would be 833, 969 it would be 1.058, or 90 euros above. The examples are here. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilios Economou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These are the tables we make for contributions and pensions as they go. Because there are many tears - but I fear that they are crocodiles - for our weak compatriots and the poor and the pensioners, we are proving here with examples and not with airplanes that they will not only receive a higher pension, but that this whole group of so-called low-pensioners will be more economically possible. Mrs Ahtsoglu, who will go up to the Step, should explain to us the theory that nine out of ten lose. What planet and what country do these happen to? Because on planet Earth and in Greece there are completely different examples.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u239	And hang up with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u240	I'm hanging up. So we have this theory and approach. I will say this one last time, Mr President. The less than 200 million in the budget is poured out in front of the two billion in total that went through four SYRIZA budgets. I'm not putting the ESS in, I'm not putting a lot of other things in it. You know that, Mrs Ahchioglu, you don't say it - well, everyone has to say what they have to say, I understand - but there is 0.5% of GDP, the 900 million that is the support to put on new pensions, so that they can have, what we say, substance and background and not be air words. So, in this context, I think there has been a good discussion. A lot has been said. I think people are listening. These speeches and debates are broadcast. So we have the opportunity to get closer to the world through our word, to understand what is happening, and I think that everyone who has the best arguments is passing on to the public, and tomorrow in the cafes where the pensioners are, we will find ourselves - we will go and visiting - and we will explain, with greater comfort from the point of view of our pensioners' friends, that they will only hope to have the new Brutsis law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u241	The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mrs Ahtsoglou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr President. Before entering insurance, you will allow me to say two words about the debate that has taken place before, in relation to the refugee and the management of the islands. Mr Gerapitris - respected in the other professor of Constitutional Law - has come and has tried, objectively speaking, to justify unjustified grounds. And this first requires an understanding of the difficulties it has been encountered. But, in order to manage this situation, to answer the unjustified ones, it has made constructions which affect the common sense, which is why there have been very strong reactions on the part of many Members. What has responded to the responsibilities of Mr Tsipras and then Mr Tsakalos for the way in which the government manages the refugee issue, as to the fact that the plan is not being implemented or started to implement, as to the delay of the seven months and the fact that the plan, which is supposed to be implemented, does not bring the result to the contrary, to the fact that there is no social accountability for the whole explosion that is currently happening on the islands? What did he answer all this? He replied that the final state did not relate to them, that the final state is a set of procedures which are not linked to political decisions and content, but more so it is an administrative organisation which has nothing to do with what political will ultimately be followed. He did an irresponsible "procedure", as if he did not see what the substance was or do not see what the subject was. I wonder why the government's representative said that he does not have responsibility for what is happening on the islands? Did he give it as the government's answer that he was not responsible himself for what is happening on the islands, because he was the rapporteur of the draft law on the final state? What kind of answer did he give it? Are we hiding behind the terminology? Is that possible? Is it effective what the state has been doing in managing the refugee in the last seven months? Just things, simple words about the substance of the matter. Is it effective? Is this an effective management? Is the problem solved? Is he dismantling the islands? Or is it exacerbating the problem and exacerbating the social tension that has arisen? Is the government's plan effective, which it has planned and implemented in these seven months? Does it achieve any social peace? Does he respect the rights of refugees? Is it effective? Is it working? Will he keep it, will he change it? Is he coming to a conversation? What's he gonna do? How does he intend to resolve this? This was the debate, these were the speeches made by Mr Tsipras and Mr Tsakalotos. No response to this, an irresponsible 'procedure', which I consider to be insulting both public dialogue and democracy and Parliament. He was then trying to say that the Ministerial Council is hierarchically supreme in the context of the Constitution, as if he still does not understand - he did not understand, because I am sure he understands - that what we called upon him to do is a democratic dialogue before Parliament, which answers the crucial questions and is chosen by the political forces for the major issue that currently concerns the Greek society. And there is another fundamental issue, which also seems to be not seen by the government, that the logic of 'decide and order', the logic by force of measures of irrationality, the logic of the bilingual interventions of Municipalities on the place of fun, at universities and on the islands, is a logic which directly affects all democratic citizens, abuss their dignity. This thing can't keep ignoring it. It is about basic individual rights what the government does. It offends them directly. While we were speaking, I saw that the Prime Minister at the Ministerial Council essentially reiterated the unacceptable position made yesterday by Mr Petsas, who linked the refugee to public health and the coronary. He reiterated that there should be this extreme policy proposed by the closed centres to deal with the coronary in the islands. In other words, because we have not been able, by law and by violence, to impose an irrational, unreasonable policy of closed centres on the islands, we are now trying to invoke the fear and terror of citizens for health to force it through this path, with fear and terror for public health. This policy is incomplete, that logic is wrong. It's gonna have to change. It's a dead end. I come to insurance, and I want to say first of all something about the unconstitutionalities, Mr Economou. When the supreme court of the country, the cancelling court, discusses applications for annulment against acts of implementation of a law - because that is what applications for annulment, applications for cancellation - looks at requests for specific aspects of the bill. It does not make a comprehensive assessment of the constitutionality of the bill. We do not have a Constitutional Court in the country that makes preventive control of the constitutionality of the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u243	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u244	So in these cancellation claims made, some of them were accepted, that is, they did identify unconstitutionalities in the Katorugalu law and some rejected them. In other words, he said that the Katrugalu law was not unconstitutional. What did Mr. Katrugalos say? What all the lawyers who have read the decision say is that in its main points it was not considered unconstitutional. What were his main points? In other words, the unification of the funds, the single rules, the logic of the entry of civil servants into the ECA, which was a major issue of disagreement between various social groups, etc. He accepted all that logic. Identify specific points of constitutionality. We've been through it many times. The Minister said it again today. Don't repeat it and eat time. But I also heard the original of Mr Brutsi saying yesterday that anyone who does not vote for this law proposed by Mr Brutsis is against the Constitution and the Council of State. This is an extremely original thought, but it shows an ignorance of how the rule of law works. In the rule of law, the Council of State does not legislate, Minister. They don't law the courts. There is the principle of separation of functions. The joint legislator has the freedom to make one or the other regulation, his own freedom. The scope of freedom of regulation is wide and belongs to him and Parliament. To say something more tangible, there are too many ways to harmonize one's decision with the Council of State. It could, for example, be one - I speak too quickly - to add 300 million to the social security budget and to correct one issue relating to supplementary pensions and the other issue concerning the rate of replacement. These two, with a further 300 million, because the cost of these two interventions is so estimated, 370 million. With 370 million in the budget. That's it. This would, for example, be another option to resolve the problem recognised by the Council of State. What does that look like? It shows that there may be many ways of regulating and dealing with these issues. But you made a specific choice and your right, it belongs to your absolute freedom. It will be voted on by the majority, since you currently have it in the House. You make the choice not to give these 300 million to the budget, on the contrary to remove from the budget money for social security and give it as government, for example, to reduce the tax on profits from large companies. That's the political choice you made. It is, I say again, at your discretion, but do not say that anyone who does not vote for this law, as if that law were the Constitution. These are absurdities. I now come to the question of the contributions of the free professionals. I'm going to use my time to catch up on the arguments. So I come to the question of the contributions of the free professionals. The Minister said sometimes, and the Members who have not read it have repeated it many times, that the Council of State considered the link between contributions and real income to be unconstitutional. That's false. That's not true. The Council of State - Tsakalotos and the part of the decision read you - said that the joint legislator can choose whatever basis for the calculation of the contributions he wants and considers appropriate, among them - he said - and real income. It can be selected as a basis for calculating the contributions. He said that a legitimate basis is this. So it is not right that you are changing the system because of the Council of State. You change it, because you make a political choice. Don't say it like that and the Members are constantly repeating it. What the Council of State said was the 20% rate, it found a mistake, which had meanwhile been corrected by the SYRIZA government. He had become 13.3%. I would also like to see self-restraint - I would really like to put myself in peace - to be there when we discuss issues of unconstitutionality. Because, Mr. Brutsi, it was by your own laws the horizontal anti-constitutional pension cuts in 2012, which the country had turned into a vast court. Hundreds of thousands of pensioners apply for retrospectives and you know it. That's a huge problem. Hundreds of thousands of pensioners due to those laws and decisions concerning those laws. So show some restraint on the issue of unconstitutionality. The other argument I hear about contributions is that the linking of real income to the contribution paid by the free trader is a mistaken principle, that of paying according to their income, that is, it cannot apply to an insurance system. It is a tax measure. It's a matter of tax administration. That's a huge distortion. The proportional distribution of public burdens and the payment - to say it even more popular, popular - of citizens, depending on their income on public burdens, is the principle of the Constitution and govern both the tax systems and the insurance systems, which are socially and redistributively, such as our own system. So it's not true that it's unacceptable to connect the real income to the contributions. But look at something else. Here we have a lot of reading card on your part of this principle. Because you do not accept this principle for freelance professionals, from some incomes or above, but you accept it for employees and civil servants, that is to say, to pay civil servants on the basis of their actual income, but not for freelance professionals in particular of higher incomes. So let's not say that this rule does not fit in the insurance system. You just don't want to apply him for a very specific category of professionals, but you want to apply him for everyone else. I would like to say something about the budget and the 200 million. Luckily, you're probably gonna have to take the floor for the thirteenth pension, because I don't have time. We have said many times and it seems from the budget that 200 million less will be spent on pensions this year than on last year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u245	Let it take the air!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u246	Mr Economou, what you said about falling by 2 billion, 4 billion - how much you summed up, I do not know what you summed up - does not correspond to the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u247	Four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u248	As I said in my prototype, during the memoranda pension expenditure had a stabilisation and indeed had some reductions in SYRIZA's governance period, but in no way like this, but since 2019 there has been a very great increase in 2019, because we were outside memoranda and we have increased social expenditure. We are saying now that why, while out of memorials and why, while you talk about increases, are you coming and putting 200 million less in the budget? I have heard the Minister, because I want us to continue the debate and not repeat our initial positions: 'Don't see', he says, 'the budget right now. His execution will be different. In other words, this amount will be raised because I will give the increases, which are now not included.' [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That's not true. The bill is accompanied by a report by the General Accounting Office of the State, which says that this bill is fiscally neutral. What does budgetaryly mean neutral? It means absolute respect for the budget, meaning that it will not be charged with the budget as it has been voted on. What is the budget that has been voted on? The less than 200 million for pensions. That's the reality. In addition to what I have already said, there is a second confirmation within your bill. You yourself write it in your bill. In Rule 47, where you say about this additional funding of 0.5% of GDP, there will be additional funding, in addition to what we say, so there will be no less than 200 million, but more. What does Article 47 say? The expenditure referred to in paragraph 1, 0.5%, shall be covered by the appropriations already entered in the budget. In other words, what we have said is within what has been voted on in the budget. Whatever we said. Anything that includes this bill. So it's 200 million less. Whatever side someone wants to see it, and no matter how much they try to question it, they've been legislated and written.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u249	And finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u250	I shall conclude with an issue that I know Mr Brutsis will put to me again. He says after four days he hasn't figured out what SYRIZA's position is for the bill. I don't know what you don't understand. Maybe it's my fault. SYRIZA stands against this bill and votes against it, because this bill makes a violent redistribution to the detriment of low and medium-income incomes and pensions and contributions. Because it creates an unfair system for contributions, because it ultimately deprives funds that our most prosperous citizens could give to the public social security system. And then you say you haven't heard of SYRIZA's positions on insurance. It's called a lot of colleagues, too. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA submitted, first of all, a very specific proposal on insurance in the Constitutional Review and said that a universal social right to social security should be established, provided by a single insurer, a redistributive public, respecting the principle of solidarity. This proposal, which is a position of value and principle, was rejected by the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u251	And that's what you're closing down with, Mrs. Ahchioglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u252	I'll finish in thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u253	We said a comfort was given. You and your prototype had a lot of comfort. Close now, warm request. Don't start what we've said before. Anything that Mr Tsakalotos will need to complete as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u254	You're right, Mr. President. One final speech to close this question of what SYRIZA supports. SYRIZA supports the foundations set by n.4387/2016. Let's not forget that it was this law that took the public social security system a deficit, it made it surplus and it did it fair. SYRIZA, however, also knows that this law was made within a memorandum, with budgetary constraints of harshness and coerciveness on the part of the troika and especially the IMF. So, obviously, it needs many improvements, which we had already started doing since 2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u255	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-seven students and students and three educational attendants from the 6th Evrosmos Thessaloniki High School (Third Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. George Mulkiotis, with very little tolerance, if necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. A few hours ago there was a debate on immigration and I think it was all about us. There was a tension. There have been issues that have been raised from the standpoint of counter-population, and I think they have been not only reasonable, they have been fair and in any case they have been matters that have dealt with everyone, not only Anti-population but also the Co-population. What we are living in is infinitely good situations, but I believe that although, ladies and gentlemen, the request made by the President of the Change Movement by Mrs Gennamata to convene the Council of Political Heads of State, we would certainly have had other developments. Unfortunately, however, the government did not listen. Of course, this is not the first time. The arrogance and pretension shown by the government - I repeat, arrogance and arrogance - unfortunately do not allow it to go ahead and understand that a major issue which we will soon find in front of us again. It's about red loans. There is the proposal of the Change Movement to set up a intergroup committee, and so far no one is responding. My third point concerns an amendment tabled by the Ministry of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the Ministry of Finance refers to the addition to paragraph 51 of Article 72 of Law 4174/2013 that debts from an administrative determination of the tax issued up to 31-12-2019 on the basis of data available to the tax administration concerning remuneration received retroactively in 2013 are due on 29-5-20. This issue is well-known and has arisen from retrospectives. I have to tell you that no one knew that there have been amending taxisnets. No taxpayer, who had taken these retrospectives, knew that he had made such an amending statement. No taxpayer has been called before the tax authority to hear the taxpayer referred to in Article 20 of the Constitution and in Article 5 of the Code of Administrative Procedure. However, an amending statement took place in TAXISnet. For those who are legally acquainted, I would remind you that anyone who draws up a document from the outset, which shows that it has been drawn up by another, is a criminal offence. I would remind everyone and everyone to see how the Greek public is moving and the people who have taken serious issues. In this amendment we are not negative as a Change Movement. But, in any case, we will have control over the implementation of the further procedure at the first time in relation to the amendment. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is the end of the process of legislating the insurance bill of New Democracy, a bill for which, over the past few days, during both the debate in committees and in plenary session, we have stressed that the solutions that this bill seeks to give are less than the problems it creates. Of course, we have demonstrated and demonstrated, and this is the opinion of the Court of Auditors that there are significant infringements in relation to the previous legal regime, with the previous law. In other words, there are important interventions in the law of Katrugalo. After that, the Change Movement rightly mentions, and the President mentioned it just now, that we have the Katorugalo-Brutsi law today. This is the very serious legislative intervention, according to the Government. You are presenting us with a supposed revolutionary reform whose course and outcome, unfortunately, are predetermined and fatal. The consequences are negative. And I say this because the government, in this bill, proves that one hand gives and the other hand takes back, as the President of the Change Movement said. It applies the decisions of the Council of State in relation to the directives on unacceptable provisions laid down by the Katorugalou Act, but on the other hand it creates inequality, which will certainly lead to new legal proceedings. A characteristic example of the right otherwise, an increase in the rates of replacement of special categories of military, for example, Air Force pilots beyond the set rates of the Brutsi Act by 1.5% more every year than forty-five or more. However, this is only about them and not about other workers. This opens an appeal window in justice. Ladies and gentlemen, the insurance system is the main means of protecting workers. It is a collective conquest which contains the values of solidarity and unity of workers. He was born and evolved from the need to protect against the risks of old age, disease, death, disability, and the need to ensure decent life after working life in any case. Apart from retirement, insurance includes a number of protective aspects, such as the protection of maternity, medical care, the protection of workers against occupational risks, disability pensions, widow’s pensions. That is why insurance must not and cannot be a personal case for anyone, and most importantly, if it is to be based on the personal ambitions of some. The Change Movement has tabled two amendments and many specific proposals for insurance reform and strengthening the social state, for restoring the injustices and for creating a fairer and more effective social security system, with realism and responsibility, as it does every time. The government's majority ignored them completely, but it also ignored the concerns and suggestions of the bodies before the committee. No response from the Minister until now, despite the fact that all the institutions were present, even though they provided specific explanations and requested them. Unfortunately, however, no answer has been given by the government so far. Full indifference to the demands of operators. Full indifference to the demands and proposals of the law tabled by the Change Movement. In the past, the New Democracy had denounced - and I would remind you - the abolition of the CSCE by the SYRIZA - ANEL government. But she also maintains today the abolition of pension thresholds. Ladies and gentlemen, I will say something. The act is the only criterion of truth. That's what the Chinese have been saying since Mao's day. And in practice it turns out that the New Democracy is not interested in either the majority of pensioners, nor in young people, nor in the weak, either in the widows or in the disabled or in children who are entitled to a pension because of their parent's death. Does the government not think that the new architecture of contributions creates unequal treatment of employees and self-employed persons and therefore create new inequalities but also distortions within the insurance system to the detriment of employees and that this will also create a number of legal actions? Ladies and gentlemen, there is no question of it because neither the public social security system nor the redistribution for the weaker are in its priorities. Of course, New Democracy ignores a very crucial issue, that the size of a government's sovereignty is of value when it corresponds to the size of the protection it provides to the interests of its citizens and especially its weak citizens. And not, of course, - as the harsh reality says - to serve - and serves - her few and privileged friends. And not when we see the government that, although it has so many issues to deal with, is misleadingly trying to give authority to communication logic and effort. So the government has to deal with issues that are not dominant, and its handling proves at least lack of seriousness. Of the multiple recursions in the so-called state with any serious negative consequences that result in our lives - and we know them and citizens experience them - up to the complete weakness of serious management of the serious problem and I am referring to the refugee problem. The New Democracy legally walks in the way of its predecessors, in the culture of not changing anything but disguise. Its real political agenda is to grant large parts of education, health, private sector insurance and ultimately to reduce the social state to a residual. A characteristic of the neoliberal recipe, which the Mitsotakis Government is very loyally serving. Ladies and gentlemen, we have told the committee and plenary about fourteen untreated injustices in the proposed draft law. No answer from the government. There have been amendments from the point of view of the Change Movement and there has been no answer from the government. But I would remind the government, which does not speak, that from 31-12-2019 until today, we have seven thousand unsuccessful pension applications. That's the reality. And that's why he's not answering. What is clear is that we no longer have an integrated reform today. What we have today is that the extreme injustices of the insurance system are not addressed. What we have today is that there are many issues which are not dealt with by this law. The Change Movement, we as social democrats, which built Europe's social state and praised for it - and in Greece we did the same - will do our same thing. We will defend the social state, namely, every citizen and, in particular, the weak in this country. Finally - because I must remind the Minister - in relation to the proportionate study and the study of the adequacy of pensions from the University of Athens, I would like to say something to him as a point of view. It is mentioned in particular, Minister, in the study by the Economic University that we have only simulated policies that have been legislated or contained in the draft legislation of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. That's all! The cost of the increased costs contained in the bill is covered by the abolition of the so-called thirteenth pension. The cost of this measure was approximately 0.5% of GDP, while the measures to be voted on correspond to 0,2% to 0.3% of GDP. There is a forecast that the remaining amount can be allocated for social policy purposes. If part or all of this amount is directed towards the pensioners, it is evident that their relative position in the income distribution will improve and be better placed than the one giving the results of the study. "Behold, Rhodes, behold and jump" in relation to the policy to be followed by the government in the course of the vote on this insurance policy. And we repeat that it is not a reform, but it is the Brutsi-Katrugalou Insurance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u257	Let me remind you again that there has been overrun by the two rapporteurs. The tenth should be observed. I would like to say that many colleagues have booked tickets because they have been specified that they will become the nominal one at 18.30. That is why I am coming back and say that the tens - there is a little injustice - will be respected for the other special speakers. Parliamentary representatives too - because we have recalculated the time - will have seven minutes' placement each. Well, I'm saying it in advance so we can approach 18.30, so we can be okay. Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos has the floor for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u258	Thank you very much, Mr President. The government in the matter of immigration sprinkled winds and shredded storms. Because it is a deeply dangerous policy but also a dead end. The government resorted to police violence, MATs, repression and barbaric attacks on islanders, who defended their rights and the non-conversion of their islands into prisons. The government has underestimated, underestimated, gentlemen of the government, the law and the power of fighting the workers and the people. And now at the Ministerial Council, Mr Mitsotakis has made threats and, above all, on the deadlock, the transformation of our islands into prisons and the whole of our country on the basis of the anti-immigration policy of the European Union and the impoverished agreement between the European Union and Turkey. In this respect, it is precisely the people who are fighting against this choice. Because it's a dead-end policy that turns our country into soul prisons. To claim and demand human living conditions for refugees and immigrants, immediate decongestion of the islands from refugees and immigrants, their transfer to mainland Greece in modern open-ended hosting centres, where cases will be dealt with very quickly by recruiting the necessary personnel, both those who have asked for asylum and those who have asked and are economic immigrants. And, of course, they will also be able to obtain travel documents so that they can go to the countries where they are their final destination. This is also the way out of this particular problem. Of course, government policy is a policy that serves the needs of business groups. And on this basis it sacrifices the satisfaction of the people's needs. It applies a deeply anti-grassrooted policy and is trying to impose it on authoritarianism, violence and state repression. But it still doesn't count well. It doesn't count on the power of the people and above all the working class. And we have confidence in the working class and the people's movement, that this will actually put the seal on the developments, when he decides to take the case together in his hands and say the last word. So we are not finished with the vote on this bill. If you think that in her conscience the working class and the rest of the populace, the self-employed, the poor middle-sized farms will accept this reinsurance abortion, you are deeply mocked. But it was confirmed by the three-day process in plenary debate that your joint strategy, your conspiracy, New Democracy - SYRIZA - Change Movement and insurance, a complex that could not have been different from the moment you have the same strategy, namely, the fulfilment of the needs of this barbaric capitalist system, the fulfilment of the priorities and needs of business groups. That is precisely why you consider social security as a tool through which competitiveness will be shielded - you say - at work. What do you want to arm yourself in on the substance? The competitiveness of business groups. That is why there is a time-consuming - since the early 1990s, immediately after overthrowing the correlations of forces and the overthrow of the socialist system - a gradual collapse, circumvention of the social security character, not only in Greece but in the European Union as a whole, but also in the developed capitalist world. This option of demolition of the insurance system is moving through two main axes, through the reduction of state funding to the insurance funds, through the reduction of employers' funding in the electoral campaign to reduce non-wage costs, but in essence it is neither the state's money nor the employers' money. It's employees' own money. Because the main source of tax revenue is the taxation of the people's strata. And yet, instead of the largest part - all - going to satisfy the people's needs, all these social needs in education, health, social security, State funding is falling, in order to serve the state debt, in order to meet the needs of business groups through the increase... All right, fine photos you take, Minister. You take very nice photos and that's disgraceful, really, to make sense to the photographer and stand in the camera. It's unacceptable. In this respect, we have nothing else to say. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u259	Continue with the special speaker from the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardos for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u260	Is the photographer gone? Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by listening to the cries of Mr Lebanese, that is, the New Democracy on the far right from the beside me when the President of the Greek Solution spoke, just like the scandalous children of the kindergarten when the teacher speaks, I honestly was ashamed of childishness. He didn't expect it. It's okay, but people see Mr. Lebanese, they see me too. She sees the far right and is judged by her behavior. He sees me, too. The issue, of course, is not Mr Lebanese or myself, the parties of the memorial arch and the others, but the fact that you are driving not only Greece into war with the policy of soothing that you follow, with the non-definition of AEZ and all the rest, but also in a civil war with immigration. Heavy request, therefore, to come to your senses. There's still time. Greece has many other problems, which are our obligation to try and solve them. I will now begin my second-guessment in insurance, with the Minister's reference to SYRIZA, according to which he listens to the other parties, but from the Qualified Opposition he expects responsibility and concrete proposals. The reference, of course, was insulting to us, because since the first day in the new Parliament, we have dealt with every bill with absolute responsibility, voting on all those articles or bills that were in the right direction, without any party feasibility. It was insulting, since in those articles we did not vote on, we considered them wrong, and we are always making proposals for changing them to committees, but which the government has rarely taken into account and taken into account. How, though, can we really propose solutions to the insurance sector today, after decades of mismanagement of the country by the New Democracy and PASOK? They did not know what would happen when they wasted the funds, when the PASOK lost much of their stock reserves on the stock exchange in 1999, when with the well-known structured bonds. When the New Democracy overcompensated the country in 2009, when the PASOK led it to the IMF trap, when both parties went bankrupt with the PSI, as well as when SYRIZA gave it the graceful shot? Or now did the Minister learn that the distribution system that Greece has always had, with which young workers actually pay the pensions of older people, is not viable, when unemployment exceeds 12%, even worse, when unemployment falls down to 30%, like a few years ago? However, when tens of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises go bankrupt, with their owners being unable to pay even their own contributions. On the other hand, SYRIZA, which continues to support the distribution system, does not know that, with unemployment at 17% and with businesses closing or leaving after the other, it cannot work, how much more in a neoliberal environment, such as what has prevailed in Europe and which is imposed on us by creditors, what has been applied by the king and by betraying his country and his political perceptions? Does SYRIZA not know how dispensing systems work properly only when there are many workers and few retired people, such as the golden thirty-years after World War II, while in Greece the exact opposite happens today? Of course, the redistributive system is socially mutual, but is it able to have it in a bankrupt country with licensed funds in the economic possession of its lenders? Or does SYRIZA think he convinces anyone about his stupid claim to get us out of the memoirs? Didn't he really know the definition of memorials? Did he not know that Memorandums are the constant primary surpluses imposed on us by creditors, the sale of public enterprises, the auctions of private property, the continued rescue of banks and all the rest? What else are memos? The New Democracy now strives to introduce the capitalist system, where its main feature is not social solidarity, but to achieve maximum economic return. But is the time really to do it? Does Greece not today need social solidarity more than ever? Or is this the command of lenders who certainly do not care how many Greeks will survive, since their goal is their country and their assets? Of course it is not their goal to keep the Greeks. Amongst other things, the New Democracy aimed at engaging the Greeks, who at the difficult time they are in today will choose the lowest level of insurance without regard to their future. They will think that they have lower burdens and higher revenues by increasing consumption, so growth and GDP, if there are of course not all the other negative developments that we have noted, but with the same bare model of consumption that has led us here, the destruction that we are experiencing and will experience for many years. The non-associated link between insurance contributions and the remuneration of the professions is, of course, positive, but is being undermined by the increase in the minimum contribution to EUR 220 from EUR 185 to now, as well as by the reduction in the amount of pensions by around EUR 200 million. With regard to the coverage of the tenth pension, which is about EUR 2.4 billion - so much is the monthly cost of pensions for around - and for retrospectives - of EUR 3.7 billion from 0.5% of GDP in the bill - only with a miracle could it be achieved, since 0.5% of GDP is only a billion euros, and in total both of which I mentioned above, for the tenth pension and for retrospectively, a total of EUR 6.1 billion. What is the solution the Prime Minister is asking for? One and only. It's either a redistributive system or a capitalisation system. The growth of the country at a rate of more than 4% -5%, as would be normal after 10 years of deep recession. In simple terms, when a sweet has been left in half, no matter how fair you share it, no one will. So the only way is to raise the sweet. No one else. In our view, however, the best pension system is Denmark. It is the most viable pension system on the planet against all public agencies. In summary, it consists of public pensions supplemented by compulsory pension schemes. While poor households are covered by the minimum guaranteed income. This system should be adopted by Greece and this is our proposal to the Minister, but knowing that he cannot do so. It cannot, because the government does not have the capacity to accompany it with an effective economic programme for Greece which will produce wealth, simply by applying the memoranda of lenders as usual. In conclusion, we would like to add that Article 39 of the Katrugalo Law, which we will table in the Minutes, is Article 35 in the current bill, and it concerns the contributions of the free professionals who were 20% waged, the same for all. Although the final amount is proportional again. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The anti-constitutional articles of the Katrugalo Law were 39, 40 and 41, which today corresponded to 35, 36 and 37. So it didn't change at all. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, because the way out of unconstitutionalism today's bill is legal, it could be cut off again. In particular, the S.H.E.L.D. It considered that unconstitutionalism was the levelling-up of an insurer with insurance benefits and the New Democracy alone was to adopt six categories of contributions instead of a previous one. In other words, all that changes in this case is the amount of pension. However, there are no other differences, such as retirement age, health benefits and so on. It could therefore be judged again unconstitutional, apart from the three different issues mentioned by the Parliamentary Service. Well, it's better to tell the truth in the world. At least he must be prepared for the future that the parties of the Memorandum Arc reserve him, which is gloomy. For example, it is impossible to reduce contributions and increase pensions. We're not addressing fools. It's good to tell the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u261	And we're completing the seconds of the rapporteurs and special speakers with the Special Rapporteur of Mera25 Mr. Maria Abatzidis. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are reaching the end of a parliamentary procedure which, unfortunately, started on the Capital website. The bill was put in consultation, involving citizens indeed being impressive. If something needs to be taught, then, this is the high position of the insurance company in the hierarchy of society's problems. It followed a debate on the articles in the relevant committee involving bodies and their representatives. Here you will allow me a comment. We were surprised to hear that the Insurance Fund Association representing six hundred fifty employees that the EIB issued a press release to exclude it from the process. These are workers who will be invited to implement the unification plan. For those who best know how feasible the digital transformation you are promoting is. We are therefore coming to the end of a parliamentary procedure which has defied the legitimate demands of many groups. For example, we take on board the flight attendants of the Olympic Air Force group. We all know we're talking about two hundred and sixty people. They were fired on 2-10/2003 and were retired with what they had gathered, without any possibility of transferring and continuing their insurance. They are young people who were found without their own responsibility in a more difficult position, both by their colleagues who left with Law 3717/2008 and by other categories of insured persons. These people, given the damage they have suffered, were explicitly excluded by Law 3863/2010 from the suspension of their pension in the event of work. And that was the only solution for them to gather extra signals and receive a decent, full pension. With your bill you like them all the other retired workers by reducing their pension in case of work to 30%. You will allow us to consider this political choice as an indication of the absence of social sensitivity. The same choice of lack of welfare is shown by our compatriots Pontius and the Northcontinentals who see the state treat them as second-class Greeks. This is because their national pension under the Memorandum of Understanding is reduced according to the years of their permanent residence in Greece. The repetitive effect is not to receive the full amount of the national pension. The same applies to the grant of the social solidarity allowance for uninsured overtime. And there our relative compatriots must have stayed permanently in Greece at least thirty-five years, which is impossible given that the vast majority of them came to the country in the period from 1994 to 2006. It is objectively impossible that they have completed forty or thirty-five, respectively, years of permanent and legal residence. We tabled an amendment yesterday to finally establish the absence of a social rule of law. In particular, you have stood on the fair demands of vulnerable groups of the population, people with disability problems, those who need the greatest support from the state to live, those whose level of life reflects the level of civilisation of our society. You have for this purpose maintained commemorative injustices, such as the provision of a reduced national pension, which depends and is reduced according to the disability rate. Finally, neither provision has been made for Greek citizens with working time abroad, to whom you are deprived of the right to temporary retirement, and you are well aware that the issue of a definitive pension is delayed by up to three years. Let us not go against all this once again the provision for pensioners who will work in the public sector. No, you simply do not deviate but you are implementing and strengthening the previous Memorandum Policy. You are asking us to vote in favour of a bill that destroys every concept of intergenerational solidarity, a bill that alarms the social state and increases social and income inequalities, a bill that inspires the sense of injustice, a bill establishing a new type of inequality within the insurance system, which is a key blow to social cohesion, a bill that shrinks the insurance system and reduces the main pensions in the medium term, a bill that already predominates private insurance as a rule, a bill that strengthens and legitimizes the Katrugalos law from the right door. Your bill only works is the redistribution of misery, between misery and expansion of insecurity. So let us not call it insurance but insurance, as our party's secretary has said. In our view, bills and laws should not and should not tend to treat symptoms, they should not and should not serve party obsessed. It should be a transition to addressing the structural problems of society, to the front of strengthening the common sense of law, to the forefront of feeling of security, stability and confidence in the insurance system. Or they're empty shirts. That is why we are voting against insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u263	I call on the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domna - Maria Michailidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is the government's major institutional initiative to ensure the sustainability of the insurance system, while respecting the expectation of a decent pension for those who have been contributing for decades, consistently with the social security funds. Respect for this soundness in a European expectation state is precisely the different element of our legislative initiative in relation to the applicable Katorugalou law. The framework established by the previous government to the insurance, ladies and gentlemen, has completely failed. It has created more problems than it has attempted to resolve and, in the end, it has become inactive in its crucial points by the Council of State. And because it is a post of the Greek political reality that SYRIZA is going over time - either as a government or now as a Civic Opposition - on the path of denial of reality and distortion of any element that conflicts with its own ideological view of social conditions, I would like to ask Members a few questions. First question: Was the Katrugalou Act not attractive to the extension of working life because of the low rates of replacement for those with more than thirty years of insurance? Secondly, was it creating a horizontal and without studying the link between the taxable income of the professions and their insurance contributions, asymmetrical charges, while at the same time strengthening tax evasion? Third question: did the extreme horizontal reduction of supplementary pensions lead to a depreciation of collective consciousness, the supplementary insurance system? Fourth question: has it created the mortal framework of the Katrugalo Law, because of the above, due to the number of other poor regulations, but also because of the complete impossibility of administrative management of its implementation in society that the social security system is another missing case, from which the citizen can expect only minimal and perhaps not? Fifth and final question: has the previous government delivered a state of administrative chaos in July 2019, with regard to the hundreds of thousands of outstanding applications for general and supplementary pensions, even misleading public opinion about the relevant figures? Before I go to the substance of the provisions to be passed, I would like to repeat in my turn that, as I said before, SYRIZA has been dealing only with distortion and misleading, that this insurance bill has been the first, for many years, which has not been in any way affected by any reduction in pensions, nor has the amount of the national pension that remains unchanged at EUR 384 for twenty-years and EUR 345,60 for 15 years. On the other hand, with what is happening in various problems, the bill strengthens the returns of the social security system, significantly increasing the rates of replacement for those who choose to remain active and insurers consistent from thirty-five to forty-two years. In other words, it is not just a bill that strengthens the income of pensioners, but at the same time actually provides incentives for those who wish to remain financially active, with multiple benefits for the social security system but also for the national economy. The above change in the direction of strengthening the competitivity of the system is self-evident, as it serves its long-term equilibrium. It provides a sense of security to today's workers and ensures a decent income for pensioners with a high contribution to the system through their own contributions or employers. With the increase in the replacement rates for insured persons beyond the age of 30 years, hundreds of thousands of pensioners will see indebted increases of up to 250 euros, thousands of others will be relieved of the loss of personal difference, while, from 2023, there will be increases beyond the limit of the already reduced personal difference. For self-employed persons, however, the changes are not limited to subsidiary insurance. The self-employed, the self-employed, as well as those involved in the primary sector, will now be subject to a system of basic insurance which is simple, flexible, more rewarding and therefore more attractive than the Katrugalos law, which, moreover, especially as regards the forecasts for self-employed persons, has been exposed by the court. In the new system, the amounts of the contributions for selfemployed persons are fully decoupled from the years of work, from the tax returns, but also from the minimum wage level, which were linked under the former regime to excessive burdens, created an appropriate ground for not declaring real income in tax and, of course, contributed to the inability of citizens to be insurance-related. With these arrangements, and trust in the free trade system will be strengthened and the payment of contributions from their part will cease to be regarded as an unconscious contribution to the state-owned Corban without any objection. The combination of the new regulations on insurance, with the reduction of income tax from 22% to 9%, will lead to reductions for the vast majority of the free professionals and self-employed, with available income increasing both for those who have an income of more than EUR 10,000 and for those who exceed this threshold. At the same time, with the arrangements you are calling for, ladies and gentlemen, to vote, the government is actually seeking to support young freelance professionals, broadening to everyone the privilege of reduced contributions for a five-year period, now only for young scientists, a privilege by name, as the Katrugalos law imposed on them even those "beneficiaries", after five years to retrospectively pay the difference between reduced contributions and contributions of the first insurance category, canceling any positive contribution it made to our professional start of thousands of new fellow citizens. With the new regulations, the punishment of those who are retired and who wish to continue working, which strengthened the phenomenon of undeclared work and deprived of valuable resources from the system. The pensioner's status will no longer become de facto incompatible with that of the worker, an approach which created more complications than it intended to combat. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill does not seek either to expose the social security system or to divest it in private interests. None of the provisions which have been put to the vote has such a content as to suggest otherwise that they are an attempt to misinform and manipulate public opinion on the basis of interests which have nothing to do with the workers, nor with the pensioners, nor with the public interest. The existence of a sustainable insurance system is a prerequisite for ensuring the country's economic prospects. This, especially after the ten-year economic crisis, is a painful collective finding for both the citizens and the political system of the country and the achievement, ladies and gentlemen, of this objective is served in a way of social law, fiscally balanced and regulatoryly effective with this bill, a bill that supports both pensioners and the world of work, with its employees and professionals today being the beneficiaries of tomorrow. Perspective, which is a foundation for restoring society's confidence in the social security system Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u265	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and three teachers from the 7th Municipal School of Artas. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let us move on to the final procedure - I would ask you to respect precisely the time-limits - for the positions of the parliamentary representatives before the closure with the Minister's speech. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Raptis, has the floor for seven minutes. Then the other parliamentary representatives will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u266	I will not speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u267	Yes, sir. Will any other of the Parliamentary Representatives take the floor? Nobody.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in summarising what has been said in this Chamber and in the positions of all Members, I think that this has been shown to be a draft law with which pensions are increased. I think that is something that no one can question. I am also surprised that SYRIZA's colleagues do not vote for pension increases and why, once again, they show their class choice not to support middle-class. I say this because it has become clear here, since SYRIZA's position, that it does not vote for this bill because - and I have said so - it does not support the low pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, all the other pensioners who took over EUR 1,300 and cut them down, the new pensioners who are going to be retired will have - with all the examples we have given you - a truly higher pension payment than the one you have given them. But all the others, who have not seen any cuts, can't get your own positive vote? How will the Greek people then accept this attitude? I mean, this is a bill that we have seen that in all ways it contributes to the growth of the economy. We saw that at last, it frees the free professionals, because indeed the free traders and the self-employed and the farmers had migrated from the level of insurance contributions they paid. In any case, the bill re-establishes citizens' confidence in the state and restores insurance consciousness. Because when you have seen examples and you have seen that, with a fixed payment, even the lowest, you will get, when you reach thirty years, pension, then you really feel you can start paying, entering the labour market, with reduced contributions for the first five years. This is a positive element of the bill. One also understands that there is the human-centered person of this government, with the specific arrangements that he has brought for the working mothers, supporting them, once again entering the production process and for the disabled, since, once again, there is provision for a special address for dealing with all the issues of disabled people. Apart from that, it has been shown that there is now - and there will be, by the publication of the FEK - a new law. The Katorugalou law is abolished. The provisions that we have brought are being implemented and which are coming to cure the unconstitutionalities of the Katrugalos Act, and that is why they are being adopted. They are now being established because the free traders must be given better support, rather than your trial of tax invasion, which you have done with the cloak of insurance contributions to the property of all people, who have been trying to earn an income greater than what they had on a daily basis. Of course, it has also been shown that supplementary pensions, which you have cut, had to be recalculated in another way of calculating them, because this would constitute a flagrant injustice against a very large proportion of our fellow citizens, which, however small the number of seventy or one hundred thousand, seems to be people who have worked, paid the money and deserve it. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that our Government is moving on with its reforms and in the context of these reforms this is the law. I would once again like to say that I am proud to have this law in force since its publication in the FEK and to congratulate the Minister, Mr Brutsi, and his staff for the very important and thorough work on this issue, which is a very serious issue, since it concerns the future of our children and also our own, those who can once again get to pension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u269	Thank you. Before calling on the Minister to close the three-day procedure, I would like to say again, because I mentioned it before, but not in detail, that they spoke to hundreds of fifty Members of Parliament. Both the special speakers and the rapporteurs were at ease in their prototypes and in their remarks. I would ask the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Brutsis, to take the floor for the closure of the bill vote: "Security reform and digital transformation of the National Social Security Agency (e - E.F.K.A.).(')'. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel the need, as we are at the end of a democratic process, in all its expressions and dimensions, to express an thanks to all sides of Parliament, to all parties, who, apart from the political differences and arguments which have both been heard, have contributed to a very good dialogue. It was a dialogue that, compared to corresponding legislative initiatives in such specific draft laws as insurance reform, had no precedent. I would like to thank all the Members, the rapporteurs, all the parties, and I should like to thank - and I should like to thank my colleagues - for their continued efforts for three months in the Ministry of Labour and in particular the officials of the Ministry of Labour who actually gave what they could to make a bill, which they have come to stay. This is a bill that has a positive footprint in society, economy and development. This is a bill for which, in an absolute democratic way, it has exhausted all possibilities at the level of parliamentary dialogue, as foreseen. I would remind you: Firstly, we have been consulting for two weeks throughout the Internet, as foreseen by the law. There has never been such exhaustive consultation dialogue. Secondly, forty bodies participated. We've broken every record at the level of operators' participation. I would remind you that twenty-three bodies participated in the previous Karugalou law. Thirdly, we have exhausted the whole timeframe provided for in the parliamentary procedure. There has been complete freedom of time, as provided for by the Rules of Procedure, both in committees and in the House for three whole days. In addition, they participated in this process - as was heard by the President - more than a hundred fifty Members, that is, more than half of the Members. Therefore, we can say that, at parliamentary procedure level, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure for such a bill, in terms of discussion with society, we have achieved 100%. We can't do more. Ladies and gentlemen, in an hour's time it will be a state law, an insurance bill, which will really change many things, because you know that an insurance bill, which has a special weight huge, every time it comes to Parliament, affects everyone, workers, pensioners, businesses, affects the economy, the growth potential of the country, affects the free professionals, farmers, the productive part of our economy. I have the feeling that this bill achieves all that I have described. I do not claim to be perfect, but I claim through the debate that has taken place and from what is being recorded, that we are taking a very important step forward, as we satisfy a number of very important issues, which were necessary with an insurance bill and left behind the well-known Katorugalou law - as we have known until now - a law which has worked negatively on too many levels and on society and on the economy and development. Now, this bill that we are bringing to the vote in this House is a bill that is attractive, as we promised, it is rewarding, it incorporates in it and cultivates insurance consciousness among all Greeks, especially among young people in our country, it is an insurance bill that is sustainable, is an insurance bill, which ensures pensions for the next 50 years by 2070, is a bill that conveys confidence. This is an insurance bill, after whose vote all the young people of our country who ask if they will be retired, we can answer them that they will receive a pension and indeed a decent pension. I want to start by analyzing a few things, but I cannot answer Mr Tsipras, who in his position in the House has led me to conclude that politics is full of surprises. By proposing this bill, I thought I was original in three things: firstly, we are introducing insurance reform in the country, accompanied by a proportionate study, full and adequate, and we have done so. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Secondly, it was and is the insurance bill, the insurance reform introduced and made full dialogue with society, unprecedented. We've exhausted all the margins as I described before. Thirdly, we have had a debate and said - and that is how it is - that for the first time in twelve years there is an insurance reform in the House, which cuts no pensions, rather than increases. These were the three major originals of this insurance reform. This cannot be called into question, nor can it be brought to bear against these issues. But be careful of the surprise. The surprise to me is that I saw the Chief of Officerial Opposition coming from the Step of the House - and this is also the originality - to place himself on an insurance reform and say that it is in favour of the anti-constitutional law, which obsessedly supports the Katrugalo Law. It's unbelievable. There is no precedent, Chief of Officer County, not to be placed on the unconstitutionality of his own law and to denounce and reject the new law without a proposal. That's originality. Here are some questions, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. A question, which is your topic, is: Well, does anyone not advise your Chief that he was obliged to apologise from this one for the anti-constitutionality of his own law and have to answer what is his position and what is he proposing in the anti-constitutionals of the Katrugalo Law? No one told him to be careful when he talks about insurance, because SYRIZA is the one who cut off the ESS, who has reduced the pensions too much - I do not want to go into this - which gave EFKA chaos and maze - look, I repeat: chaos and maze - and say an apologies for the world's suffering about the outstanding pensions, to say, anyway, what is his proposal for tomorrow's insurance? Only a complaint, a refusal to vote on the new insurance reform and a debate on the constitutional outstandingities. I say 'constitutional loose ends', because ladies and gentlemen, it is not simple. I have heard Mrs Ahtsoglou passing the "nearly the lion" the question of the unconstitutionality of Mr Katrugalos. Let's hear about it, let's get in touch with it. Firstly, the law was considered unconstitutional because it was not accompanied by scientific documentation. That's right, three months ago the Council of State said that this change of the Katrugalu law came here, without scientific documentation from the National Accounting Authority. Is that simple, gentlemen of SYRIZA? Do you bring legislation here, which has no scientific documentation to be accompanied by evidence? And of course, the Council of State, the Supreme Court, found it unconstitutional. Secondly, the Council of State considered the cuts in supplementary pensions unconstitutional. It's nothing simple. So you're just going through it? You cut pensions in more than two hundred and eighty thousand pensioners, with 1,300 euros. Do you just go through it like that and justify being in the memorial, undisturbed? What do you have to say about that? Thirdly, the linking of employees and self-employed persons in the same way as the 20% contribution. Did the Council of State consider it unconstitutional, yes or no? And you didn't reduce 13%, yes, you did before the decision came out. Watch out. A large part of the population of free professionals, self-employed and farmers continued to pay 20%, which is also unconstitutional. That's what you hid. What did Mr. Tsipras say about that? Nothing. He hid it, wasn't placed while he had to take a stand for his law. Of course, with regard to the question of the rate of replacement, what did the judges say? They said what you're doing is out of reality. The Karugalo - SYRIZA insurance bill is a bill, which equals any prospect of staying in the workplace in working life. That's what you did and took him out of the anti-constitutional system. Are these a few? You're just going through it and you sent your President here not to answer what he had to answer? I'm not saying apologise, because he's not used to it, but at least say what his proposal is and say why he's voting against the new law. He didn't. These are, gentlemen of SYRIZA, the truths. At least now that we have reached the end of the procedure and after you applied - I did not expect this - a roll-call vote in the entire bill, I would like to say what I understand. I understand, quite simply, that after the completion of the procedure, SYRIZA will have voted against increases in supplementary pensions. Let the Greek people hear it, listen to it, two hundred and eighty thousand pensioners who will receive subsidiary: After the vote of the Government of New Democracy's law, SYRIZA voted against the increases in this population. Also, SYRIZA voted against increases in the main pensions. And be careful now, it is not only those who are retired today - I will speak more thoroughly about this - are the future pensioners, they are today's, tomorrow's, the future workers who will receive a pension under this law to whom you have cut the pension increase, through the increased rates of replacement. This is what SYRIZA is doing today and that is why the Greek people are watching to know what SYRIZA is voting against. SYRIZA is voting against the digital pension. Yes, SYRIZA with the generalised refusal of the bill is a defender of the outstanding pensions of one million, which he gave me. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] He defends pensions in the traditional way and denies the digital transformation that passes the new EVKA in the new era and allows digital pensions to come out. This is what SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, is voting against. Of course, what else does he vote against? I now address one and a half million people, farmers, lawyers, doctors, engineers, self-employed people. Yes, it votes for the decoupling of income, this criminal connection, the punishment, the anti-development, the tax connection of income to the insurance contribution. SYRIZA is voting against them, even if they were unconstitutional, ladies and gentlemen. That is what happened today in the House, which will be voting in a little while from now on. We must, by leaving here, clarify our relations, as this will be the new law for our country, this will be the new insurance reform. It was a mistake by SYRIZA, who called for a roll-call vote at first, and I repeat it. He puts all the bill aside, all the increases, the digital e-Ephka. You will bear the political cost. It's your choice. SYRIZA is voting against what Greek pensioners will see in a short time. I will now answer - because I cannot overcome this - one by one by one by Mr Tsipras's arguments and criticism, from this step by step, of the insurance reform that we are bringing. It's eight points. Listen. Point 1st: thirteenth pension. We shall repeat this once again: there has never been a third pension. It was an election allowance, much less than half of the thirteenth pension, if theoretically there was, which is EUR 2.3 to 2.4 billion, which in previous years, as Mr Economou said, was baptizing it, but elections are said to be "Let me baptize the thirteenth pension, if I may also mock the pensioners and take the vote on the poll." And he didn't take the vote. That's why the retireds voted against you for the cheating that you electioned them. Secondly, you have also spoken about accounting increases. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell the truth, as it is. Approximately two hundred fifty to two hundred eighty thousand pensioners will get an increase from the subsidiary. That's it. There is one population in the main pensions - I will say it for the first time - eight hundred thousand. From this population of eight hundred thousand, from the current pensioners, some will see the increase in their pockets directly, for others, unfortunately, there will be an accounting netting with the personal difference of SYRIZA, the Katrugalo Law. The financial area, which we did the macroeconomic exercises, did not allow us to eliminate the personal difference. That's the truth. But listen to the number, 'cause it's worth it. Let us not only see the tree, let us see the forest a little, because many people are wrong and journalistic focus on today, who will get the increases in June or July 2020. It's the wrong approach. Of course it's interesting. All young people - this is the most important thing - all the current workers in the country and all the pensioners, who are demobilised from working life and the Katrugalo - and we have taken care of this - will now have permanent steady increases, since they have thirty years and one day of working life. All young people, and that's the good thing. It concerns all young workers in our country. This is the other argument, because they are eight hundred thousand workers, who will be retired tomorrow. Let me say the number, eight hundred thousands tomorrow's pensioners will get an increase, those who have thirty years and one day. That's what the National Accounting Authority counts. Mr Tsipras' third argument is this demagogic, which I said yesterday to Mrs Ahtsoglu and to SYRIZA in general. Didn't you make sure to tell him we answered the questions? Couldn't you bring him here with fresh arguments? With the arguments that were answered yesterday, did you bring your Chief here? Now watch the demagogue. It was invoked by Mr Tsipras that to get a future worker EUR 252 a month increase in pension must have a pension of EUR 3,500. Who said otherwise? But why are you taking a fragmentary example and you are not saying that someone with EUR 700 for a pension, with the Katrugalos law, would have taken EUR 684 while with the new Law EUR 734.50 above? Do you underestimate 50 euros a month, Mrs. Ahchioglou and Mr. Chakaloto? Also, with 800 euros - 58 euros a month - with a 1,000 euros pension wage, 73 euros a month. Do you underestimate them? I put it in the Minutes that the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group should know, leaving here, what they voted against and apologise to society because they did not vote. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Tsipras invoked robbery with regard to the freelance professionals, the self-employed, farmers, etc. I'm sorry, have you seen the evidence taken by the Ministry of Labour? I'm reading some fragments. A free professional, with 10,000 euros, with the new insurance reform, compared to the past, will have 770 euros more income in his pocket. With EUR 12 000, it will have 1,174, with EUR 7,800 will have 364, with EUR 15,115, with EUR 20,000 having EUR 2,50, and EUR 25,000 having EUR 3,148. Are these a few, gentlemen of SYRIZA? Is that what undermines and increases the cost of life of free professionals, farmers and self-employed? I also present these in the Minutes to share with the Members of SYRIZA. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, because, beyond the limits of the House, this population, which is one and a half million people - lawyers, doctors, engineers, economists, accountants, farmers, self-employed people - knew about this, did not react and strike for four months - as they did by the Katorugalou Act - because they adopted this policy, this great tax reform, which stops the punishment of the most productive part of Greek society. That is the truth, Mr SYRIZA, and rather than embrace it, instead of supporting it, you are voting against it. That will be your apology tomorrow, out in society, in a million and a half people. Of course, the criticism of this population, for which I have just described the benefits, is that we are increasing contributions from EUR 185 to EUR 220. Is that true? Of course not. Because within these examples I have put forward and made public, the reduction of our tax reform, in December, which was brought by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis with Christos Stakouras and Apostolos Vésiropoulos, in which we reduce the tax rate from 22% to 9%. Well, don't you know that, gentlemen of SYRIZA? Did you meet in another House? You weren't here when New Democracy reduced the tax rate from 22% to 9%? Isn't that money for freelance professionals? Do you ignore them and see only the part of the 410 euro increase? So here's the results. Ladies and gentlemen, with our policy and insurance reform, this dynamic part of the population, which has been punished to date, is released and can create, produce wealth freely. It will be detached, after many years, by SYRIZA's insurance cords. Let us look at the other issue that Mr Tsipras referred to. I am really surprised when someone invokes things he has done, as an argument for - in introductory terms - 'his political opponent'. He says Mr. Tsipras, a key argument by SYRIZA: “You are cutting the 2020 budget by 206 million.” Of course, that's in the budget. In 2020, by 206 million, pension expenditure is reduced. However, at the same time Mr Tsipras does not know that in 2015 the pension expenditure was reduced by 96 million and voted for it himself, that in 2016 pension expenditure decreased by 206 million and voted for it by EUR 744 million, in 2018 by EUR 343 million and in 2019 by EUR 416 million. Isn't that what Mr. Tsipras voted for? Is he criticising the EUR 206 million, Mr. Chakaloto? Didn't you tell your Chief that it was wrong to see only one side and not to see all of it? Mrs. Ahchioglu said yesterday that we need to look back on account. I agree with her. So I would like to inform you that, in return, these 206 million of the reduction in pension costs will be increased by a great deal. That won't be the amount. I am informing you, to clarify this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, in the coming years pension expenditure will increase. The question, which has to do with the National Accounting Authority, is how does it fall and reach Europe's average? Because it is very simple to increase pension expenditure at a much lower rate than GDP. So that shows a decrease. That's the truth. The last argument put forward by Mr Tsipras is about inequalities between employees and self-employed persons. Does the self-employed now care about him? We have a place in this. Of course, there is now an inequality between wage earners and self-employed persons. We have done a very favourable, productive, developmental, dynamic environment for all this population of free professionals, self-employed and farmers, but for the employees we have said what we are going to do. We will reduce the non-wage costs by five points, and Mr. Tsipras comes in, and is critically placed, that we create inequality. At the same time, however, in the policy of reducing non-wage labour costs, it does not accept it. This is the definition of contradiction. They are the so-called 'crocodone tears', so to say, criticism. These were the arguments put forward by SYRIZA for our insurance reform. Do you think these are arguments that can be based on public opinion? Do you think they are arguments that stand to argue with someone why they come here and vote against their own anti-constitutionalisms? That is why the Greek people, gentlemen of SYRIZA, - the pensioners especially and the young - voted against you and that is why it embraces this insurance bill, which is a bill that came to stay. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about the bill, which I think is an incision, and it comes to sealing a series of long attempts by the Greek people, sacrifices, efforts that have been made in the past by other parties, all of which in politics you must not be petty, you must recognise. In fact, to the side of SYRIZA, this micropsy, when even the Law of Loverd-Koutrumani, which had the element of national, basic and proportional, was baptized nationally and rewardingly. It's not yours, gentlemen of SYRIZA. It's a very correct architecture, made by PASOK, I adopted it. It's an architecture that exists today and we have to keep it. Of course we have to keep her. That's not yours. Ladies and gentlemen, the insurance reform incorporates instruments that cannot be changed in the future. I explained them yesterday. They incorporate key pillars that are now acceptable to society and will not be able to easily change them in the future. Why? Because they are very important pillars, which are also measured through a proportionate study. The proportional study, which was submitted for the first time here, together with an insurance reform, says two things. The first is that we have a sustainable insurance policy by 2070. The second element is that we have an insurance in which pension expenditure in the medium term comes as a percentage of GDP in the European countries' average. Do you know what this means to the young children who are watching us? That we have an insurance policy that has been fully cleared up and most importantly, in the medium to long term, the payroll included in the architecture of insurance reform will come only to be covered by contributions. So we're completely covered. Who's going to change the insurance parametric dynamics? I think that whoever tries to do this will find the whole of society to him. We are here, doing our utmost every day to rationalise things, to deal with the uncertainties of the past. The new e-ECA will now be a fact as of 1 March 2020. Tomorrow stands up the new platform of the new e - EVA for freelance professionals. 20 March, according to the law, it will be possible to pay the insurance contributions in January in the new way, a new way, which will have two titles on top: "I choose freely", "I aim higher". Because I would also like to send this message, which is very important: for this population of the self-employed, the farmers, the free traders, it is their interest to go to a higher level of freedom. Because we have now put forward - innovative - that the health contribution is stable and the rest of the money is not lost. They come to invest in shaping the main pension. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the process. I close again with thanks, to everyone. It would be a good thing if hypocrisy were missing. It would help the country and the political system in general. We are not able to reach an agreement. Fortunately, however, the Greek people manage to shape the critical moment of those majorities, at parties level, which at the critical moment give a solution to their future. That is why I believe that in the elections on 7 July the Greek people voted for Kyriakos Mitsotakis, New Democracy, in order to make this insurance reform, for the benefit of the next generations, the pensioners, the workers and our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u271	Ladies and gentlemen, we will have a short break, after congratulating the Bureau and the missing heroes of the House, the Members of this House, who have, in fact, targeted about the time of the roll-call vote and will be back at 18:30, precisely because there are Members who will leave - to make the roll-call vote, as we have said. You've got a quarter, an interruption that's predicted. At 18: 30, we said it and we do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u272	Mr President, I do not think this House agrees that the vote should not begin now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u273	Can I tell you something? If I now read the list, the fifteen names may not be filled, because they are notified - sorry, but to avoid disagreement by some - for 18: 30. If I read the list and call on those who have tabled a roll-call vote, at the end of the day, they will not be held, because they will not be present, when we invite them to 18: 30. I don't want to go on with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u274	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u275	Mr. Loverdo, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u276	Mr President, I have no individual reason. I'm a congressman of Athens, and I'm not traveling. There are many colleagues who have a duty. What did I ask? I also made a nod to Mr Special Secretary, if you can open up the circuit now, whoever we are here to vote and slowly, the rest of us will come. There are so many of them here!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u277	Mr Loverdos, the fifteen Members required by the Rules of Procedure are not in this House because they have tabled a request for a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u278	I don't know that. SYRIZA knows.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u279	We're talking about nothing. Ten minutes here. Everyone's gonna go for a walk to undo and come back at 18:30 sharp.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u280	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the page in. 375 A]] [[Let the page in. 376a]] I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, fifty-four students and students and an educational meeting from the 7th Kavalas High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "Security reform and digital transformation of the National Social Security Agency (E.F.K.A.).(')' We are entering the vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law, and they will be voted on separately. A request has been made for a roll-call vote on the principle and Article 47 of the draft law by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u281	I will read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to see if the number required by the Rules of Procedure is available. Mr. Eleftherios Avramakis. Here you go. Mr. Athanasios Athanasios. Here you go. Mr Stavros Arachovitis. Here you go. Mrs. Efi Ahchioglu. Here. Mr. Christopher Vernardakis. Here you go. Mr. Nikolaos Voutsis. Here you go. Mrs. Olga Gerovali. Here. Mr. Theodore Dritsa. Here you go. Mr. Costas Zachariadis. Here you go. Mrs. Nina Kasimatis. Here. Mr. Yannis Muzalas. Here you go. Ms. Marilissa Xenoyanakopoulou. Here. Mr. Theophilus Xanthiopoulos. Here you go. Mr. George Papaliou. Here you go. Mr. Nikos Pappas. Here you go. Mr. Panos Skourlet. Here you go. Mr. Panos rusty. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. A request has also been made for a roll-call vote on the principle of the draft law by Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u282	I will read out the list of signatories for a roll-call vote to see if the number required by the Rules of Procedure is available. Mr. Dimitrios Koutsoubas. Here you go. Mrs. Alexandra Pappiga. Here. Mr. George Marinos. Here you go. Mr. Ioannis Giokas. Here you go. Mr. Ioannis Delis. Here you go. Mrs. Liana Canelle. Here. Mr. Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos. Here you go. Mr Christos Katsotis. Here you go. Mrs. Maria Konnakka. Here. Mr. George Lambroulis. Here you go. Mrs. Diamond Manolaku. Here. Mr. Athanasios Paphilis. Here you go. Mr. Nikolaos Papapastasis. Here you go. Mr Leonidas Stoltides. Here you go. Mr. Emmanuel Synthrakis. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u283	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Do you accept the two votes in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u284	Ladies and gentlemen, there will be an electronic roll-call vote on the principle and Article 47 of the bill. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the pages in. 380-383]] I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill and Article 47. Make sure that you have voted on both areas included in the vote. We would remind the rapporteurs and the special speakers of the draft law to remain in the Chamber after the roll-call vote was completed, to vote on the remaining articles, amendments and the whole bill. The vote begins. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u285	I would like to inform you that letters or fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau - fax colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, to which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u286	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters from my fellow Members have been sent to the Bureau. Andreas Michaelides, George Katrugalos, Sofia Sakorafa and Yiannis Varoufakis, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present they would vote "OH". Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. Evangelia Liikolis, Konstantinos Scandalidis, and George Papandreou are absent and by letter they know that if they were present they would vote according to the position of their party. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting but are not counted on the counting of votes. The letters referred to above are entered in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u287	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u288	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 286 Members voted. The principle of the draft law: In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 128 Members voted against. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice (Queen's In favour of this article, 158 Members voted. In other words, against the article 'No', 128 Members voted. Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u289	At the end of the roll-call vote, we proceed to the vote on the remaining articles, amendments, the nominee article and the entire bill, and they will be voted on separately. The vote will again be taken electronically by the rapporteurs and the special speakers. The vote includes 102 articles, two amendments, the hotel article and the entire bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u290	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u291	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u292	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: ‘Security reform and digital transformation of the National Social Security Agency (e - E.F.C.A.) and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, Articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u293	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u294	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-27-S1-commons.u295	With the consent of the House at 19.20 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, February 28, 2020, at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
