ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] That is a good start for the parliamentary control of this year's term. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: In accordance with Parliament's 26-8-2020 authorisation, the minutes of its meeting of Wednesday, August 26, 2020, with regard to the vote in the entire draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Statute of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Italian Republic on the demarcation of their respective maritime zones’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the Topical and urgent debate on Monday 31 August 2020 in the House. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 972/24-8-2020 by MP Argolidas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Giannis Gioulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The necessity of direct staffing of the Pathological Clinic of the Nafplio Nursing Unit of the Argolida Hospital with the required medical staff". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 976/24-8-2020 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "It is unfair to abolish the social criteria in the placement of assistant teachers." 3. The question under number 980/25-8-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Exclusion of teachers from the tables of the 1GI/2019 and 2GI/2019, due to mistakes and omissions". B. PERSONS Second-cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 973/24-8-2020, a topical question by MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Sunday Malama to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Halkidiki's society asks explanations about the restrictive measures now". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 977/24-8-2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: “No work, but no announcement on the Northern Road of Crete (BOAK), which has been to be auctioned since 2012.” 3. The question by number 974/24-8-2020, by MP Rethymnon of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, to the Minister of Health, on "The outbreak of the pandemic and the lack of an effective plan for managing the health crisis". 4. Question No 979/25-8-2020 by Mr Kegeroglou, Member of the Hearing Officer, Mr Kegeroglou, Minister for Health, on the subject: 'Strengthening and staffing of the Centre for Health of Kastelios'. 5. Under number 975/24-8-2020, a topical question by MP I' Eastern Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Second continuous summer that Acropolis is not accessible to Acropolis under the responsibility of the Minister of Culture". 6. The question, under number 978/24-8-2020, of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: “Not the end of the suffering of the passengers of Thessaloniki. Direct public health risk is the aggregation in buses of the Thessaloniki Urban Transport Organisation (OSTH)’. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question, under number 984/25-8-2020, of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Direct resolution on the production and disposal of school meals in Western Thessaloniki". We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We begin with the first under number 971/24-8-2020 in the first cycle of the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgiou Kaminis to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Koronovius impacts in Police and Firefighting". Mr. Kamines has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Secretary, this timely question I am addressing you comes to the perpetrators of a series of means of parliamentary control, in principle, which I have addressed to you since March of this year, mainly concerning the protection of your Ministry's staff, particularly the police officers and members of the Coronary, because of a coronary. On 30 March, I asked you a question, which I stressed, among other things, these issues. You replied to me about a 'Safety' plan for firefighting, for specific impact management of the crisis on staff and facilities, and for the EVS, you pointed out that there was a request from your Ministry to the EVS for the integration of police personnel and staff in general to the same criteria for the laboratory investigation of COVID as for health personnel. Then, on April 21st, we came back with the well-known issue of aggregation in police detentions. Unfortunately, I have had personal experience not as a prisoner, but as an assistant citizen's attorney since the summer of 1999 - twenty years ago - the first autopsy took place in a police detention and unfortunately, I see that after twenty years it has not changed anything. The problems remain the same. We have been keeping these things for a long time, which are under the system of administrative deportation - then we had found young children among them - in conditions of misery both where prisoners and staff are at risk. Already since that time, there has been a health problem. Now with the coronary, it doesn't get the same situation going. That is what I have pointed out to you. In your question, I also highlighted the issue of the Fire Corps for firefighters who went to Gythion. They had them stay in a camp there, in such crowded conditions, where people were literally noisy. I want at last, because of the crucial role the police plays, but also the Fire Corps - we are still in the fire era - to tell me what the Ministry is finally thinking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u3	Minister, please, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, daily women and men of the Greek Police and the Fire Corps are making superhuman efforts in response to an extensive grid of competences, as this is what modern challenges are facing our country. In this particular expanded field, in which they have been constantly attempting, they have been facing, for several months, and with the health threat of COVID -19. I would like to stress that the political and natural leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection has been alongside the members of the Greek Police and the Fire Corps since the very first moment, as he proposes, all of us's duty to protect against the pandemic. We are taking a number of initiatives with the sole aim of protecting themselves, their own interests and the whole of society. As far as the officials of the Greek Police are concerned, the mission of which, among other things, is to ensure compliance with measures to prevent the spread of the CIVID virus -19 I would like to assure you that constant efforts are being made to ensure and supply health material and to take all appropriate measures. In this context, from 29 February 2020 and 26 August 2020 a number of materials were received and made available, which is detailed in the table, which I present in the Minutes today. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Competitive procedures for the supply of extra health material and technical equipment, such as electronic thermometers, are to be met in the near future to ensure uninterrupted distribution to all members of the protective equipment required. Our initiatives, however, are not limited to the above. We are constantly making the necessary contributions, which will protect the officials of the Greek Police, while facilitating the work and daily contact with the citizens. For example, the competent directorates in this House are already taking the necessary steps to place plaiting protectors in those areas of police services where citizens come. Especially for detention areas, I would like to point out that the responsible Head of every service on a case-by-case basis examines the possibility of detaining in a separate area as suspected cases. Where property needs or property needs are observed, they shall be examined by the relevant technical service director, who shall carry out this task if more specific conditions so require with all the difficulties mentioned above. You realise that it is a matter of decades that we are facing and, at one time, we cannot create ideal conditions on the issue of detention areas. However, we are taking measures and specific instructions were given yesterday, especially for those who first come to detention and, indeed, for those categories you have said, for administrative deportations. In addition, any exceptional financial needs of the Greek Police services to deal with the pandemic are considered and satisfied, as part of the possibilities of the budget available to the Greek Police. In addition, in the context of exceptional state budget expenditure, the competent authorities have taken the necessary steps to provide the necessary logistical infrastructure in order to allow remote communication, through teleconferencing and the strengthening of the electronic mail system for the purpose of removing the contractual mail. In addition, all initiatives are taken to strengthen the fleet of vehicles, with a significant number of two-cyclical motorcycles, with AAVs and passenger vehicles specially designed to facilitate police services on their mission, based on the new data generated by the COVID pandemic -19. For the fuller information of the National Representation, I am tabling another document setting out the details of these actions. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the Archive of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to stress that from the early stages of the pandemic until today, the Health Service of the Hellenic Police Headquarters has been constantly sending instructions, which it updates, through close cooperation with EGEY. At the same time, as a benchmark of the Hellenic Police Headquarters, the Single Business and Crisis Management Centre has been designated for the purpose of most complete treatment of a symptomatic patient, a police officer or a prisoner. From March 29th, all Greek Police officials have at their disposal an integrated mesh of instructions for the necessary actions, in the performance of their service, in case they come in contact with a confirmed or suspected case of COVID -19. In addition, a new order was issued on the 23rd of this month by the Chief of the Greek Police, according to which all necessary directions and orders were given, aimed at limiting the spread of the virus, while relevant circulars of the Ministry of Interior were notified. Our efforts continue with unrelenting interest in more effective protection against the spread of COVID -19 and for the strains of the Fire Corps. Parliament's health service shall take all necessary steps, providing guidance to all the services of the Fire Corps, with a view to protecting the health of personnel and citizens, who come in contact with them. To that end, an order has already been issued by the Chief of the Fire Corps on 18 August. To conclude my initial position, I would like to point out that the competent Headquarters services have taken all necessary steps and planning to ensure the proper functioning of the services of the Firehouse during the current period, where the COVID health crisis continues to exist -19. In relation to the Gythio, which you report, the specific instructions, both for the transport of the personnel of the Fire Corps, were laid down to comply with the instructions and measures on the basis of the protocols. There was the question of the forced stay of a number in the camp, which you mentioned, given that there was very great difficulty and, I would say, there was a complete inability to find other hotel accommodation, due to the completeness of those operating and others who did not exist. In any case, however, there were specific instructions and specific orders, and you are also aware of them - after you visited the Kyhiyas, the period during which the fire was under way - and you have also seen for yourself the effort made by the Fire Corps and its men, and indeed you have congratulated the Fire Corps for its action in the fire of Kychia. There are difficulties in business, you understand them yourself. I would, however, really like to assure you and Parliament, but also the staff of the Greek Police and the Fire Corps, that the effort is lasting, our concern daily to do our best, because they are really services that are in the front line and must stand up for the next period in which we will be dealing with these problems. Finally, I would like to say to you that we are in constant communication and with the services of the countries of the European Union, such as Italy, Spain, France, Germany and the United Kingdom, where we have gathered information on good practices, which they apply in this context, by exchanging these experiences, we have incorporated several good practices and we have incorporated in the directives that we have adopted towards the headquarters of the Firehouse and the Hellenic Police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u5	You have exhausted, Minister, and secondly, and I hope you will be very brief. In any case, there are only four topical questions and there will be tolerance for everyone. Mr. Kamin, here you go, for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, first of all, I should like to apologize to you for having been acidic in my writing to you, because very often I have the impression that you are replying to me in a very general way, without going into detail. As we know, we are living in a country where there are laws which do not apply, and by analogy there are directives and orders from the finally organs of the ministries, in particular, in our case, and from ELAS, which are very natural not to be implemented. Unfortunately, life does not stop by issuing a law or a decision of the Chief. In the document, which was sent to you - at most acid, - the Union of police officers was talking about very specific incidents, which we need to know now, not if instructions have been given, but whether these directives are being implemented. And one way to check the Ministry if its orders are implemented is to make sudden checks on individual police departments, to determine what happens if the measures have been taken or have not been taken, and to take the necessary measures. I fear that we will be here again in a few months, you and I, and we will speak - very probably - on the same issues. I would therefore like to draw attention to you, because the virus seems to have recovered and will remain for a long time, and at least what we have heard about detentions and separatisms and about all this contributory work of police officers, prisoners, visitors to police stations, must be stopped, because if I am not mistaken, the cases of the coronary have increased between the members of staff, police and the fire department. First of all, I would like to ask you now whether you have specific figures to report to us, secondly, because the Change Movement has tabled an amendment to various bills four to five times, and this amendment concerns the allowance of special conditions for members of the security bodies during the cornea period, as a member of the government and you finally answer what is happening, what is the government's answer? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u7	Please be brief, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. You also know on a personal level and my appreciation on your face, after all, we have collaborated with various positions that you have previously been, and as Citizens' Counselor and Mayor of Athens, in a context of good and creative cooperation, and I really know your personal interest in and sensitivity to these issues, in particular with regard to the issue of human rights and the conditions, under which this whole framework of detention conditions exists, which I would say is not really the right thing to say. We are making every day's efforts, but you are also aware of the difficulties in going to a rapid change towards the better of all these warehouses, since there are a number of problems which we are calling on to tackle, building facilities and a number of other issues. We are really on a lasting stand to deal with COVID -19 in the forces of police and fire-fighting. I do not hide our concern about the expansion of incidents, both in the population and in the police and fire forces, because during the next few months they will continue to remain on the front line in response to their duties. The meetings and contacts between the relevant health services and the EGE are continuous in order to achieve the greatest degree of protection against the pandemic. A further meeting was held yesterday at the Ministry of Civil Protection with President Arkoumanias and a scientific staff from that organisation. We are also taking into account the problems that have arisen in their papers to the Headquarters and the Ministry, the trade unions, and the ones you are referring to. We must be honest and correct about the pandemic problem. The deficiencies and gaps in the infrastructures of police and central structures of police and firefighting cannot be solved from one moment to the next. With a dynamic strategy, we are taking more and more measures for the personal and family protection of the thousands of men and women of the Security Councils against the pandemic. The political decisions of the Government and the Ministry are immediate and without delay. Our strategy is increasingly strong and shielded by the protection and defence of staff against COVID -19. For our part, we want to assure the officials of the Hellenic Police and the Fire Corps, the National Representation and the citizens that we are doing everything we can on a daily basis for the better protection of citizens, police officers and firefighters and our special categories of fellow citizens who are currently in prison. At this point I would like to point out to you and give the clarification you said that with a separate operational plan, special officers have been designated in each of the police district for supervising and strict compliance with the measures and directives that we have put in place for COVID -19 in order to have the necessary control. As you have rightly pointed out, it is not just the adoption of the directives, it is also necessary to monitor their implementation closely. We are already doing this on a 24-hour basis, both at the headquarters of the Hellenic Police and at the headquarters of the Fire Corps. There is a daily follow-up and reference to how the situation is progressing. And as I said at regional level, there are officers specifically designated for this purpose. Let me give you a picture of what the current situation in terms of cases is. We have at the Greek Police fifty-seven confirmed cases and a hundred seventy-three cases under house arrest. In the fire department, we have six confirmed cases and four cases under house arrest. In the General Secretariat of Crime Policy, we have a confirmed case and fifty-four cases under house arrest. They are the faces that arise through the tracking that takes place and enter some time into quarantine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u9	The second question will be discussed with number 981/25-8-2020 in the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary Committee of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Aid for childbirth and predatory care for women who work seasonally in tourism without conditions". The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr. Panagiotis Tsakloglu. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is your first presence and the first answer to a question. I hope that, above all, it will be positive because, so far, the Minister for Labour has not been used to any specific answers. Minister, the condition laid down for the payment by EKKA of the licence, childbirth and predator’s allowance is the two days of insurance in the previous two years before the date of birth. This means that the seasonally worker has given birth since June cannot complete the two-tier trademarks in tourism. Seasonal workers in tourism usually work in June, July, August and September and get a little more than a hundred badges annually. But those who work from April, May to October rarely exceed a hundred seals as undeclared work is known to be largely implemented in the industry. We have set you an example. I imagine that this example has been studied. It doesn't take time to repeat it. However, I would ask the President to give us the time to tell us why it is of great importance. Minister, with birth date 15-6-2020, the worker must have two hundred meanings from 16-6-2018 to 15-6-2020. What does that mean? In June, 15 July, 15 August, twenty-fifths in September. A total of eighty-seven trademarks in 2018. These are counted. Since 2019, additional 100 other emoluments have been counted. However, 2020 has no insurance days after flights, as it is known, started in July and the recruitments took place, as it was later. The problem therefore concerns the seasonal workers who will be giving birth this year and those who will give birth to the year and do not fill in the two days of insurance. This year, with the ban on flights, the closure of hotels and all the related tourist businesses that depend on the entry of tourists into the country, other workers are not working at all, or less have taken up work in July. So a seasonal worker who gave birth or will give birth this year does not fulfil these conditions. In today's circumstances, therefore, the evacuation of unemployment, of ferocious poverty, which is particularly affecting the families of seasonal workers in tourism, the loss of their maternity and predatory benefits to those who do not have the preconditions, will worsen their lives. Workers from other non-seasonal sectors who have been made redundant or do not find work because of the situation may not collect these two days of insurance. The JRC supports the granting of childbirth and predatory leave to all women who are either born, unemployed, rural or self-employed scientists or professionals without any other condition. Our question is whether you intend to deal with the problem in order to grant the childbirth and predatory allowance to workers who do not complete the condition of the two-day insurance days, considering that in 2020 they would also work as in 2019 if there were no measures and capitalist crisis triggered by the coronary. We're waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u11	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u12	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Katsotis for his really timely question which he refers to in a sector that he knows very well. I would like to start with something more general. The timing of the outbreak of the pandemic was rather unfortunate for Greece. Our country after a deeper crisis and, above all, a very long crisis had begun to recover. All international houses and international organisations showed a much higher rate of economic growth for this year and for the coming years. Unemployment was at a very high level but declined at a speedy pace. All this has been overturned by the COVID pandemic -19. As in all European countries, but also worldwide, the available estimates agree that in 2020 economic activity in our country will record a fall and unemployment will increase. Just yesterday the OECD announced a record drop. It's temporary, of course, evidence, but it's almost 10%. It is 9.8% of the actual Gross Domestic Product in the organisation's Member States for the second quarter of 2020. The figures for the European Union and the Eurozone are even more bleak. It's about 12%. To give you a comparison measure, in the second quarter of 2009 when we had the financial crisis, the corresponding reduction was only 2.3%. But the biggest problem we have at the moment is the uncertainty that exists over the very time of the recession. I think it is a common place for all of us that the pandemic health crisis is accompanied by a deep and equally toxic economic crisis according to the elements I mentioned earlier. I think it is a top priority for all of us to support society and to protect citizens from the consequences of this unprecedented dual crisis. At these difficult times the Greek state is next to the citizen, workers and business. The Government has undertaken and continues to take early and targeted initiatives to alleviate the significant consequences of the spread of the coronary. The relevant ministries of finance, development and investment, labour and social affairs are struggling to minimize the social and economic costs caused by this test. Already in support of workers and free trade and self-employed workers, as well as companies affected by the pandemic from March to today, some EUR 1.5 billion have been paid up, involving both special-purpose allowances and your question - and insurance contributions. Nowadays, our country has been able to obtain a loan, in fact the completion will take place in the next few days, from the European 'SURE' programme for a much higher amount than what we initially valued at EUR 2.7 billion from the European Union on particularly favourable terms to support employment and the unemployed. Our top priority and central objective is not to leave anyone behind and not to leave anyone helpless and felony of the situation, and most of all mothers, as maternity support is an absolute priority for the government, as in practice it has already demonstrated from the first months of government with a number of measures, as we have seen, for example, the childbirth allowance. In this sense, I truly thank Mr Katsotis. We share the same anxiety and I would like to tell you that we are making unwise and processed efforts and constantly have new actions and new measures on this new situation that we are currently experiencing. If anything has really escaped us, we would be grateful to you to point it out to us. I have to say that I have worked on the example, which you have given us with the services of the Ministry and for the reasons I am referring to below, does not seem to be the case and I will tell you why. It is true that you are saying that some rights to benefits mature according to the insurance history of insured persons. That makes sense. There is a need recently for a number of benefits and when the labour market is deteriorating due to COVID, such as the current situation, it becomes more difficult to concentrate benefits. In this case, however, the category of seasonal workers in tourism does not seem to be such a risk, and I will soon explain why. On the basis of the measures we have taken not only we support, but we strengthen and replace the income of workers in the tourism sector, but also at the same time, we protect all their insurance rights. More specifically, what is generally the case is what you mentioned in your question, namely, in accordance with Article 7 of the current national collective labour agreement, a gestational allowance is granted for fifty-six days prior to birth and a takeover allowance for sixty-three days after birth if they are absent from work and have carried out the two quarters that you have already mentioned in the last two years before the date of birth. In particular in tourism workers, the maternity, maternity and maternity benefit is granted by the ECA, if they have completed two two days of insurance in the previous two years prior to the possible or actual date of birth. Even if they have not completed two days of insurance, account can be taken of the time of insurance that the worker has in another institution other than e-ECA. However, as far as the dramatic period that we are really experiencing today is concerned, I would like to stress that, as the vast majority have said before, it is also covered by wages and insurance. In particular, for tourism enterprises that incorporate their staff into a contract suspension scheme due to COVID -19 or the employment aid mechanism under the ‘COMPANY - WORK’ programme, insurance contributions from the State budget are to be covered for as long as they are in a contract suspension scheme or under the ‘COMPANY - WORK’ mechanism. In fact, I would like to point out here that the level at which this is being shaped is the level that they had before they were suspended by a contract of employment or entered into the 'Consumer - WORK' mechanism. Therefore, that's where we still have full coverage. But that's not all. It is also an addition to hotel and tourist accommodation business, which has not been reopened by the workers, being suspended by a unilateral declaration, that is to say in this case we have full cover for the insurance contributions that correspond to them. As a result, seasonal workers in tourism retain all their insurance rights, and by extension, their access to receiving allowances including lottery and childbirth allowances. More generally, I would like to point out that, in the payments that have been made, which I mentioned earlier by the Ministry of Labour, with a view to dealing with the exceptional circumstances, which have been created, this 1.5 billion, have so far benefited from something less than two million workers, a million nine hundred thousand workers and, from this 1.5 billion, the 420 million have been directed towards the e-FTA to cover workers' insurance. I'm abusing time, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u13	Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have said a lot in your first place. However, as I mentioned and pointed out in my prototype, the example I mentioned to you has not been studied and you have answered me, as the Director of collective relations and differences in the mobilisation of food - tourism workers in the Ministry of Labour said yesterday. But it has not been addressed, so we are asking your question. And please beyond today's debate, the example of what we have set you in the question of studying better and indeed see the problem of how it has been and how it can be addressed. Tourism workers and food from this crisis that we are experiencing today, which we say hastened from the coronary, have been in a bad position, Minister. The government, by means of measures taken by thousands of workers in the sector, has made redundancies, suspended, rotating work with incomes of up to EUR 9 a day. Are you proud of this? You're invoking it. You say you've spent 1.5 billion. For how many thousands of workers, who are today in this support mechanism, are EUR 9 a day? How can a working people’s family survive with 9 euros a day and even in tourism that often happens to both couples working and being in this situation? Thousands of young workers in the sector who worked last year and did not qualify for unemployment benefits in 2019 were left behind - thousands of workers - and the estimate is over a hundred fifty thousand. So they're in the unclaimed, Minister. I imagine you're not proud of that, too. The Ministry of Labour and the Government as a whole provokes workers, since it presents the policy of support for major business groups as a policy that benefits workers. It even came to mention that the unacceptable delay in paying the degrading sum of EUR 534 is being done for the benefit of workers so that there are no mistakes. The requirement of the major business groups, as reflected by the SETE for what you said about the 'SURE' programme, 'COMPANY WORK', is to permanentize all these measures which exempt them from the obligation even to pay a wage. The government's intention, as expressed by Mr Brutsi, is to implement it. This creates a climate of concern, anger to the workers who are now aware of and the most skeptical of the policy of governments, now and ex, who satisfy the needs of business groups by scanning whatever workers' rights have been left, as is the case today in the question. The workers and workers in tourism who have paid for growth with the constant record that you have said to arrivals and profits of multinational tourism 120 billion in recent years, with wage cuts at this time of growth, with intensification of accidents at work, are now being called upon to pay the new crisis with full level and a deterioration in their lives. In these circumstances it is not acceptable, Minister, that workers who do not fill in the two-fifths should lose their allowance. Protection of maternity and the conditions laid down by governments to strengthen future mothers, new couples are in the sense of recompense, what we say is what days you have for insurance. The logic of compensating motherhood support is in contrast to the demographic issue for which you say you are interested. This position, in addition to all the necessary conditions, may contribute to the demographic issue. It is the position of the JRC that the allowance should be granted without conditions to all. This policy, then, Minister, serves business groups, is hostile to workers, will become worse for the working class if it does not fight to overturn it. The JRC welcomes the racing interventions of the tens of clubs in food - tourism, supports their demands. One of these is payment of the childbirth and pre-conditions. Also, ensure the income of workers under the responsibility of the State and of the employer, on the basis of sectoral collective agreements, which have been completed. Already, the collective agreement ends and does not appear to have signed a new contract. To be paid for the first week of each month. They just got July. Prohibition of redundancies. Unemployment benefit, without conditions and conditions, should be granted for the entire period of unemployment. It cannot, with four months of unemployment, survive with this situation, with the unemployment that exists today. There are also other issues. The tax office, "run" the water, PPC. All these obligations of the workers of the people's family are being met. The current is being interrupted in people's families. How's it going to happen? Will you take action on this, do not stop the current? Are we in 2020? Will you take steps so the banks and the tax office don't confiscate their homes? The test will require businessmen to pay for it? Here the employer said the other day: "Or you will pay 80 euros to do the test or a week unpaid." What is the position of the Ministry of Labour on this? There are these issues, therefore, which cannot be left unavoidable. They cannot be answered by the Government, they cannot all be loaded on workers' 'plates'. Minister, on this issue, and in particular on this issue, I have said before - I am ending with this - that you must set an example. We have to pay the allowance to those women who are giving birth this year, but also to those who are in need of time, without the conditions laid down to date for this right, for the protection of maternity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the general context is concerned, we all understand that any policy which does not take place in any vacuum in the air is under specific circumstances and under specific restrictions. The fiscal position of our country - we all know - is particularly difficult and with the debt we have overweight to our children, our grandchildren and perhaps even beyond. I wish we had more, unlimited resources and that we can do even more. However, I would like to stress that many things have been done and, in addition, the things that have been done in our country are similar to what has been done in other European countries with much more relaxed budgetary conditions. With regard to the specific example mentioned by Mr Katsotis, I would like to say that, in cooperation with the Ministry's services and on the basis of this example I have just mentioned, it does not seem that there is a gap left that does not receive this allowance. However, I would like to assure you that at this difficult time the government stands alongside the affected worker, the affected citizen, the affected businessman. We are monitoring the development of the pandemic, the impact on the economy and work, and we are dynamically adapting our measures and actions to the needs of the economy and the needs of the citizens. Already - and I am replying to Mr Katsotis - we are considering the extension for two months of the unemployment benefit for those who have ended the grant since June, and then we will continue as necessary to bring new measures to support society until we have left behind this exceptional situation of the pandemic. New measures for the new needs created by the new wave of the pandemic, but also for earlier needs, should they escape the existing grid of support and protection measures. In particular, I would like to assure you that if it is shown that some mothers of seasonal employment in the tourist sector are not covered by the existing mesh, then we will look in the most appropriate way to ensure their access to the childbirth and poaching allowance, whether this is done by a joint ministerial decision or a new legislative act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too, Minister. We wish you a kind and good power in your work.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u19	We are now entering the first under number 982/25-8-20 of a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Yiannis Delis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Disasters of floods in Thassos". The Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Thodoros Lebanon, will answer. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, last Thursday in the Limenaria of Thassos, scenes similar to those of November 2019 on the island were repeated. Once again, that is, after a strong rain several roads of the settlement were turned into rivers. Dozens of homes and shops were flooded, including a printery with ultramodern equipment. Vehicles were lured, and there were dozens of calls to the fire department for water pumping. Of course, even this time, the dangers for animal loss were not missed, as the Fire Service of the island had to intervene - and it did intervene in time - when four people were caught in their car, which was immovable on the provincial road because of the rainfall and their lives were at stake. The inconvenience of the people, as well as their concern, their anxiety, are rightly great, Minister, since once again they find that they are completely unprotected against the natural phenomena. Alongside the flood disasters in Thassos, they have been calling for a long time for the lack of necessary flooding. You, too, have seen with your eyes what these storms and rains are leaving behind in Thassos, when you visited the island last November when it was a great disaster. However, although it is obvious that this problem has been exacerbated and that the anti-military protection of the island of Thassos is extremely urgent, there is, in essence, no serious concern about this. In short, the inactivity of the state and its governments, both central and local, is also characteristic and outrageous. So we ask you, and we ask you the following questions, which are on three lines. What are you going to do, so that the damages can be recorded as quickly as possible and, of course, that the 100% compensation for those who have suffered damage to their lives will be followed? What are you going to do, in order to qualify for special treatment, for those affected by the flood, to get rid of their tax debts, insurance funds, banks, to get rid of the municipal fees they pay to the municipalities, to stop any confiscation procedures? Above all, what will you do, not only to restore disasters - this is the elementary - but what will you do for a long, medium-term and short-term plan for the construction and implementation of flooding projects on the island, which at some point should stop these disasters following any possible rain? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u21	Minister, you have three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Delis, indeed the island of Thassos is an island that has been afflicted with natural phenomena and not just rain and fire. I would remind you of the large fires in 1985, 1989, 1993, in 2017, which burned about half of the island's forest area over the previous years. In particular, for the disasters of November, since you mentioned them, I did indeed go with the Minister of National Defence, Mr Panagiotopoulos, and with a governmental step and see the disasters that had occurred. What did we do then? It's a good opportunity to remind you of it and the National Representation will know. The Ministry of Interior, on its side, gave 350,000 euros in the next few days to rehabilitate the first losses plus 250,000 after a few weeks, so only in the Municipality of Thassos, and restore infrastructure due to the disasters of November. I can assure you that the vast majority of this money has been exploited very adequately, particularly in the eastern part of the island, in the area of Potamia, where the damage has actually been restored to a large part, new insulations have been made and the damage has been restored. There's a little bit left. It has been sponsored and announced by the Ministry of Infrastructure a specific project, about 600,000, I think, to restore the disaster in the river of Thassos. The work has also been done - and fortunately we did not have a problem - at the port of Thassos. The necessary restoration and removal work was carried out, due to the naturality of November, and the port normally operated in the tourist season, which, in any case, was a tourist season because of the pandemic. In addition, as far as the Ministry of Interior is concerned, we have given EUR 200,000 by decision of Friday again to the Municipality of Thassos for the damage that took place last Thursday. There, too, we are in contact with the mayor of the island. He has made both announcements about houses and workshops and gives a one-month deadline to apply to come after the step and proceed to the confirmation and restoration of damage in accordance with the Ministerial Decision 2009. Also, the City Council - and this will apply to Mr Stoltides' question - will be able to take a temporary discharge decision from the municipal fees of houses which have been affected for reasons of force majeure and are not being used. Obviously this is where the theories come in. From there on, as far as the regulation of taxes and social security debts is concerned, we expect to see the registration, the size and the real damage that exists and we are in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, but also with the Ministry of Labour, to give the most appropriate solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Delia, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Undersecretary, your answers are probably unsatisfactory. They're pretty general. We put three axes of issues, the damages, the restorations and the flooding. In any case, this question raises a more general question, as you can see, the issue of the flooding and protection of Thassos. If you want, not only Thassos, every region of Greece that has such problems. Speaking of Thassos, however, we are talking about it. Because, Minister, the floods each year have been repeated, more and more in recent years, with greater frequency in Thassos. This is due, of course, to the major fires in the previous decades, but also to the recent major fire in 2017. Do you know why? You know that, of course. Because there is no real intervention to restore the forest and cleans it after the fires. But, Lieutenant, the big damage after a storm, a heavy rain, you know, is not fatal that it will definitely happen. Because, apart from the rains that once fall - and very loud as usual - there are some other reasons for these damages. See: The road that broke, for example in Maries of Thassos, a beautiful village of Thassos has been maintained for many decades. In Limenaria, where the flooding phenomenon has now occurred, anti-military works simply do not exist. The streams around the Limenaria are not cleaned up, and that was the cause of the flood in this area, along with the pedestrian torso that came from the burned forest. In Water, if we go to the southern Thassos and the wider region - all these are beautiful places - despite the fact that the settlement has been growing in recent years, it has been growing ever more, this has been the case without the slightest anti-military study. The same ones in northern Thassos, in Virgin Mary, in Potamia where the inhabitants really tremble their foliage when they see the weather intercept and come a strong borough. In short, the inhabitants of Thassos, Mr Secretary-General, also pay very much for the anti-grassroots policy of all governments, SYRIZA, New Democracy, PASOK, the European Union's choices, which have never so far made available these resources to make use of the water resources - and many water resources in Thassos, if of course there is concern for their exploitation - to build the necessary anti-military, drainage and irrigation works that will protect the area, manage the water, store the rain waters that people need, farmers over their crops, and enrich the water horizon. It is no coincidence that in the budget of the Municipality of Thassos there is not only a small sum for anti-military works, but also in the region of eastern Macedonia - Thrace. Also, in Thassos - and this must be heard here in the House - they are almost nonexistent, Mr Secretary-General, the water pipelines, which, in combination with the fires, with the non-cleaning of the forest and the abandonment of the ravages of course lead to a strong rain in these kinds of flooding phenomena. Let me tell you something. It is not enough because that is what you said in your prototype - to continue every time, after a flood, a few rehabs, that is to say, which they hold, do not last until the next possible rain. Our concern is growing because I am holding a document from the Ministry of the Environment, as a co-legislator in the reply he gave us in the previous question, in December 2019, for the major flooding in the past winter, where the Ministry, your government, says that the Directorate-General for Water - I will present it - identified the high-risk zones as well as the flood risk management plans for these areas of potentially high-risk flooding. All this was done in accordance with Directive 2007/60 of the European Union. Below you know what he says, Mr. Secretary, the Ministry of the Environment of the Government of New Democracy? "As regards Thassos island mentioned in the question..." - which we did - "... do not belong to a potentially high-risk flood zone, as can be seen from the preliminary evaluation stage." Unbelievable and real! Thassos, who is suffering from floods every year, does not belong to the high-risk flood areas! What's that? We're going to need an answer here, of course. Its responsibilities, of course, which allow these repeated floods, are burdened with as we have said all the governments, but it is also borne by those who support these policies in the municipality and in the region. In our view, measures can be taken to protect both marine lives and life. What prevents these measures from being taken? You know that, too. They are the laws of capitalist development, where as a priority they always set what is profitable and anti-memorandum works are not profitable. It's not like the highways to put tolls, so we can get after the development of reasonable costs and benefits. But these projects, Mr Secretary, are the social need that has been increasingly urgent lately. It's getting worse and worse. You know that very well. As far as we are concerned, we will also claim and call on the people of Thassos to get into this logic, to organise and claim more funds, to come more funds at last, to plan and implement the absolutely necessary flooding projects, along with any restoration projects and the compensation of residents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u26	Thank you. Mr Delis, I would say that we agree, first of all, and this must be the main one, that we must be able to make progress rather than then to heal. The Ministry, therefore, in cooperation with the General Secretariat of Civil Protection of the Ministry of Civil Protection in the near future, is preparing to issue a new invitation, which will also be financed by the Antonis Tritsis programme, as well as by the Public Investment Programme of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, to integrate a series of anti-military works, a new invitation to all municipalities that have prepared studies to proceed. Obviously, the Municipality of Thassos, since it is clear and progressing on the study, will be one of those who will join this new project. What I would like to say is that Thassos has this phenomenon. The floods, as far as I remember at least, have occurred mainly in the last year, that is, November and now. We have not had strong flooding in previous years, to such a large extent. This shows, in any case, a change in the weather patterns, where it led the island to be hit within about nine months, and indeed, continuous days, 22 and 26 November - within four days - and one now, last Thursday. Therefore, we will have to lay the basis - and we must lay the basis - for creating all the necessary anti-military works. The anti-military work of 600,000 euros in Potama is progressing and has been auctioned with the financing of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. In any case, what will happen is to see all of Greece where most problems exist. It was also a direct reaction to the disasters on August 7, 8, if I remember correctly, in the region of Evia, where the money was immediately given to the municipalities - 500,000 euros to the municipality of Dirfion, 700,000 to the Municipality of Halkidion - plus 600,000 to the two municipalities for the immediate restoration of the buildings and the first kinds of basic need, plus a package of new measures. He is visiting the region again - for the second time, if I am not mistaken - the Minister for Transport, Mr Karamanlis, is to see the development of the projects. We are therefore trying, in every way, to help the regions affected by natural disasters and retrospectively, when they are, unfortunately, happening, but also in advance. In conclusion, what I want to say is that in general, for the Municipality of Thassos, there is a strong interest in restoring damage and making all the necessary infrastructure. The Municipality of Thasos is already exceptionally subsidised with an additional vehicle, for example, waste collection, in order to better serve the public. We have reacted immediately and are in constant contact with the municipality in order to make as much use as possible and more effective of the money allocated to repair damage due to natural disasters. We will also see, in cooperation with the municipality, any other works of rainwater may be needed mainly in the area of ports and ports, which are the two main residential tissues, but also possibly where necessary in coastal areas such as Skala Potamia, Poto, where there is strong tourist development in particular in recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We enter the debate of the second under number 983/25-8-2020 on the second question of the second question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Leonidas Stoltides to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Disasters from floods in the Municipality of Lagada, the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki". Mr Lebanese's timely question will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Interior, Mr Lebanese. Here, Mr. Stoltides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. The catastrophes from the floods in Lagada are, Minister, the issue. The "Wales", as is called the last bad weather, three weeks ago, left behind in many areas of northern Greece a familiar, unfortunately, picture of the destruction of crops and people's property as a result of the dangerous lack of flooding works. There were incalculable disasters due to the heavy rainfall in the area of the Municipality of Lagada in Thessaloniki, which was in emergency from the morning of Friday, August 7th. They flooded dozens of shops in the center of Lagada, flooded dozens of underground houses, turned streets into lakes, as the disasters in buildings and home warehouses are large. They inclined torrents, making traffic impossible in the city of Lagada, as well as in the streets to the villages Golden Dawn, Five Brussels and Colchikos. The villages of Kavalari and Perivaki were literally flooded. In Perivaki, in fact, 60% of the village's houses were flooded and power cut as ten PPC columns fell and many transformers were destroyed. Also, the bridge was destroyed on the road to Colchicus. The fire extinguisher received a hundred and seventy - seventy calls for water pumping and derailed and carried nineteen persons to a safe spot. In desperation, after this situation, there are farmers and farmers in the municipality of Lagada because of the serious damage to infrastructure, because with its momentum the water wiped out feed, animal vitamins, corn and straw balls in the region. In other words, forty livestock units in the municipality of Lagada, at least fifteen have been damaged and they have been rearing half of the livestock population in the region, totalling six thousand cattle. And the flood disasters in the municipality of Lagada "voice" for the lack of necessary flooding projects. In the face of this necessity, however, it must be said that the inaccuracy of the current government, of the New Democracy, of the Region of Central Macedonia and of the Municipality of Lagada is equally deafening. Governments and all the relevant state bodies, knowing in detail the exacerbation of the problem and the urgency of the flood protection projects, implement projects and infrastructures on the basis of the profitability of capital and not the fulfilment of popular needs. So you ask, Minister, the following: What urgent actions will your Government take to ensure that the recording of the damages suffered by the people's property is immediately completed and that the people affected are compensated for 100%, as well as reduced by tax debts, OAUs, banks, municipal fees? Also, any confiscation procedures should, of course, be stopped immediately. Secondly, what steps will your Government take to bring about immediate and complete restoration of all disasters to infrastructure, with modern standards and to provide brave state funding for the design, study and construction of the necessary anti-military armour projects in the region of Lagada, so as to minimise the risk of the region's inhabitants being faced with similar situations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u29	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u30	The part concerning Mr Deli's answer also applies to Lagada. Obviously, the municipal council has the possibility of exempting those affected and, because of force majeure, in the minds. That's where the crews have moved on to the recordings. I think within a month, after the natural disaster, the recording is completed. Especially for ELGA, as you mentioned the issue, it informs us that the assessments have been completed and animal losses have been found in twenty-four ovine and caprine animals and sixty-four beeswaxes and the repayment procedures will proceed immediately. As far as infrastructure is concerned, there has been a problem with the heavy rainfall in the region of Lagada and, in fact, in the plain part rather than the mountainous part. The Municipality of Lagada is a very large municipality, starting from the suburbs of Thessaloniki and reaching the mountainous village of Soho. So it's a big deal. It also includes a large part of the Coronas Lake and the Volbes Lake. So this part, as well as what I said earlier, also applies to the Lagada Municipality. And here we will consider the possibility, since the Municipality of Lagada is ready, to include projects in the new invitation that will come out for the flooding projects that they need in the area. In conclusion, I would say that there was already the same day that there were natural disasters in Velvet in Kozani, where they were issued by a decision of the Minister of Interior, Mr Theodorikos, a grant of EUR 150,000 to both municipalities. I think it is a matter of a few days that the Lagada Municipality will also proceed with this use of the money in order to heal the first damage that existed. As far as the cleansing of the ravages is concerned, the Region of Central Macedonia has already launched a project of 3,000,000 euros to clean up the ravages. And especially for the Municipality of Lagada there is a 70,000 euro programme contract, where half-cost is covered between the Municipality and the Region, which aims to clean up the ravages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Stoltides, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, obviously on the basis of the intentions and directions that the government will give, we will see them in practice. But there are some elements which point to where this is going. This area has a peculiarity. There have been channels for seventy years, which have been cleansed forty to forty years. And, of course, the government's long-term responsibility also emerges. The question now is: How is it possible - and I would say below - that no provision has been made over time in the municipality concerning the technical work of the municipality - despite the opinions of the relevant bodies, not to do a task of opening up these channels, so as not to create a problem which has ten and a hundred times the cost of life, property, business, public housing, etc.Huh? So it's all retrospective. There are the opinions of the relevant bodies and, of course, with the intervention of the people's conflict in the region, which each municipal council urgently highlights this need. As our wise people say, "On the door deaf...". It is, however, a municipality that, under the responsibility of the majority, even in an emergency, has long time to meet and continues not to meet to raise matters and to provide solutions. But it is also a matter of recording. The way it is done has a sloppy way, because it excludes underground - it only concerns homes - which have serious and critical infrastructure for the people's family or business. Boilers are a classic example. It excludes many who do not have time to continue to survive and quickly must themselves restore the damage and cannot wait for this whole process. In fact, it is three weeks and the Ministry has not made the most of the funding so that it can effectively restore all these critical, key infrastructures to the continuation of its daily lives. They're excluded, too. And the predictions, Minister, from local bodies and players say that in six months it is not enough to open up these channels. Without any intention of personal criticism, but as a whole as a confrontation of the ideology of the government's policy of intervention on exceptional weather phenomena that no one knows and could not predict, we believe that the debate with our people and with the government and confrontation should fortunately not take place on the basis of which Indian magic should be chosen to have a better prediction of weather phenomena and especially its management, when all the conditions exist for over-exploited and scientific staff and labour and production and mineral wealth instruments tomorrow to begin the final irreversible solution to these issues and never to raise any issues again for our people. But why can't that be? Because there are obviously no funds, funds, the money to be given to build these infrastructures. That's what we'd say is a great lie, because the money is there. It is much more than it takes and we say in its logic that the state should manage this whole process with much more workers and central planning and not with contractors who eject costs, with all these possibilities in its hands to finish with all these issues and the bitterness experienced in every fire and in every flood of the populace. But you don't give them there. You give them in all ways either by exempting taxes, either by exempting contributions, or by directly financing those who cause the problem. And the people and Lagada are not only facing the problem of flooding, but are facing the problem of unemployment, the problem of access to health, the collapse of self-employed people, the dismantling of farmers and farmers. Those who are the cause of all that the people of Lagada are facing and the whole of our people are being financed by the government - as has happened with the previous governments - and what our people need to live in 2020 is not financed in terms of 1800. And in that sense we tell our people that, fortunately, the debate cannot be put at that stage. And the debate that needs to be opened directly with our people is when it will be decided to turn the key to the economy from the private interest to the social interest, to the power of the working class, to the central design that all the conditions exist to end with all these issues. Because, Minister, and your government, the key to heaven has only given it to a handful of parasites in the economy, to business groups. And from this, our people don't have to wait a white day.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Stoltides. The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Stoltides, I will not be tempted to have a more general talk of ideological approach. It doesn't make any sense right now. What I'm going to tell you is that, personally - and I'm going to talk to you through my heart right now - I'm sorry and I'm very sorry that such phenomena are happening, and I feel personally - if you want - the weight when sins and problems of many decades appear now and we are not completely ready to deal with the new environment that has been formed in the weather. And I'd tell you that we're trying as the Interior Ministry to make use of money from the new Recovery Fund for creation. I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you will allow me to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, and in particular on behalf of the Group of the For example, there are the thirteen regions, which have the intermediate role between the General Secretariat of Civil Protection and the Municipalities, and they must somehow finance and find a way to fund policy coordination centres for protecting the population from phenomena. Unfortunately, I appreciate that whatever we do there will always be natural disasters. The question is how we can limit them and how we can eliminate the consequences for both the inhabitants of a region and for the businesses and for the animal production that exists. So we are trying to use new technologies to create civil protection infrastructures and valid detectors to inform us in time of natural phenomena, such as floods and others. For example, if there were the disasters in Mandra in 2017, it could be much more time to warn people that a large volume of water is coming in order to protect themselves. We are in contact with the CEDEFOP on the development of new technologies and the creation of civil protection structures and, of course, with the General Secretariat for Civil Protection and the State Secretary responsible, Mr Chardalia. And in the near future you will also see the call for anti-military projects and the proposal that we have made to the Recovery Fund in order for a part of this to be the creation of structures for civil protection centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S1-commons.u36	With the agreement of this House at 11: 21, the sitting is closed for the day, Thursday, August 27, 2020 at 15.00, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work in accordance with the supplementary agenda that has been distributed.
