ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's 12-2-2020 authorisation, its minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, of Wednesday, 12 February 2020, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Definition of 24.12.2019 PM Essential arrangements to increase the amount of the social dividend for 2019, the extension of the extrajudicial settlement mechanism and the extension of the deadline for the abolition of mortgages and real estate offices (A'212) and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we begin, however, let me inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 14 February 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 481/4-2-2020 of the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, Mr Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Inadmissible government method to remove reafforestation in the perimeter forest of Thessaloniki". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Evangelia Lykoulis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "An immediate solution is needed to the settlement of the Kouloura". 3. The 492/10-2-2020 topical question of the Greek Parliamentary of State Mr.Villiardos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Financially inconsistent and environmentally disastrous work to privatise Heraklion airport, with a relocation to Kastelli". 4. The Question No 480/4-2-2020 by H' Vice President of Parliament and Member of Parliament B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "It is a terrible situation since the Operation of the Gender HYTAs". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Mr Georgios Born to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "As a matter of concern now, the risk of non-completion of the Akti - Ammacia road project and the loss of the European resources of the NRP". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 494/11/2020 of the Member of the Corfu Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr.Dimitrios Biagis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Environmental need to place a general doctor in Irikussa". 3. The Question No 491/10/2020 by H' Vice President of Parliament and Member of Parliament B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Recycling in the Municipality of Vyron - Performance of Recycling Fee'. 4. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Finance, on "Conservation and exploitation of public buildings in Heraklion". 5. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arsenis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The need to introduce a minimum guaranteed amount of energy to the economically weaker". 6. The question under number 503/11-2-2020 of the Greek Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Catherine Notopoulou, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Progress made by the Metro of Thessaloniki". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Kastoria of the Radical Left Coalition by Olympia Tyloridou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Natural gas network in Kastoria, Maniacs, Argos Orestry and Grevena". in writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the questions to be discussed, which are eight. It will not be discussed with the Prime Minister, the third with number 493/10/22020, in the first cycle of the Greek Parliamentarian, Mr. Vassiliardou, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: ‘Court of damages for the Dieselgate scandal’. Also, it will not be discussed, because of lack of responsibility, the fourth question under number 500/11-2-2020 in the second cycle of the Athens Parliament, Mr. Angelikos Adamopoulou, to the Minister of State Georgios Gerapetritis, on the subject: “Micro-retired pensioners are treated unequally in relation to uninsured/insured HEIs”. So we now move on to the debate of the first under number 482/5-2-2020 on the second question of the Second Cycle of the MP Rodopi of the Change Movement Mr.Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Restoration of injustices for compensation from the Political Planning of Emergency (CSDP) of tobacco producers - cotton producers in the Regional Unit of Rhodope, affected by diseases in 2018". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, firstly you force me to come back with a new timely question, which we discussed with exactly the same content in October 2019. I would like to remind you that in October 2019, when we had the debate in this Chamber, I mentioned to you the great problem facing tobacco producers, particularly in the Rhodope Prefecture and, of course, the cotton producers. In fact, I also mentioned a report from the Directorate for Rural Development of the Rhodope Prefecture, the head of which found the extent of the damage to tobacco growers. He said that this damage was 80 percent. First of all, we are talking about the damage of 2018, to be clear. He described it as a serious epidemic in this public document and said that there was no other way to compensate it because of the need. You then - I read from the Minutes - you said yourself here that there is the political will to pay or compensate the tobacco producers' state aid, as long as you said - that the four - five elements of the law are fulfilled, because they are not compensated by the ELGA and we committed ourselves before this House and before the coal-minded people, the minority, the majority, all of them, that at the end of October you will have a sure answer. Until now, Minister, we have not received an answer from you and tobacco producers are asking. Because yes, in 2018 - to say things with their name - were compensated for by EUR 100 from the previous SYRIZA government, of course, by de minimis, per acre, but this amount was charity. And again, since the Step of the House, you said - and I had consented - that this was a regular election then - that it did not cover the damage of people, 80% were, and since then it has not been possible to make up for their income. And, you know, tobacco growing in particular helps the national economy, because it is a monoculture, only tobacco grows up to ten acres, helps the domestic tobacco industry, helps obtain Greek public income, and if we do not support them in producing tobacco, selling it, how will the Greek public income be obtained? So support for tobacco producers is not only a question of the sustainability of these same producers, but also an act of support for the national economy. The same problem has been experienced by cotton producers, as by other groups, who, of course, have a similar request, but I think that the main problem lies with the tobacco producers who want you to know nowadays whether or not they will be compensated or not, or who will still be waiting five months to know what will happen. So, Minister, we are waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u4	Mr Voridis, soon and 'cedarata'. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u5	In the middle of the day. Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, we have indeed discussed this issue again, and it is just now that I should answer you on the point you raised and ask me again with your question. This question concerns three crops: cotton, winter cereals and tobacco. To put a little bit of the legal environment in order to include in a programme of State aid any crops should be subject to the following five conditions: firstly, the production of the year must have been damaged at a rate of at least 30%, secondly, scientifically substantiated by a committee that loss of production is the result of an unfavourable weather treaty and not a combination of many, thirdly, that this claim is confirmed by official meteorological evidence, fourthly, that the cost of compensation for losses should be approved by the General Accounting Office of the State and, fifthly, that the proper cultivation technique has been used and that appropriate measures have been taken to prevent its damage and spread. These are the five conditions. I am exception to the fourth, which in the end is economic in nature, namely the adoption of expenditure by the General Accounting Office, but the other four conditions must be cumulatively met in order to include a loss in the programme of State financial aid and - I say this in order to be informed - they must indeed be met and verified, because otherwise there is a question of illegal financial aid. So under these conditions compensation is given to the NGOs. With regard to cotton, the Central Steering Committee of the ELGA met and it concluded that reducing production in cotton was not the result of an unfavourable weather treaty but a combination of many and there was no scientific documentation demonstrating the direct causal link between adverse climatic effects and injury. Therefore the losses on cotton crops are ineligible. For winter cereals, the same coordinating committee concluded that no price return data were noted to enable it to determine the importance of the economic result, there is no substantial economic effect and therefore rejects their inclusion in the programme. I will tell you what the Steering Committee is now saying, but let me quote that, as you rightly pointed out, tobacco has already received de minimis compensation. You described her as what you described her as. The compensation granted at the end of 2018, if I remember correctly, was - also well remembered - in the amount of EUR 1,800,000. And I say this introductory terms because it is not possible to give any further de minimis to that. Since it has been given - because it has been given to everyone, it has been given tobacco then - there cannot be any complementarity. The Coordinating Committee on Tobacco says: The reduction of production is due to fungiological attacks and ionisations and is damage to phytonosoes caused by adverse weather conditions or exceptional events, which cannot be proven because there are no appropriate means to deal with. However, the Committee considers that they could be controlled by applying appropriate preventive cultivation techniques. Since I think that the committee leaves a 'black' my position on this particular issue is that a special scientific committee will be set up, which requires the law, in order to determine whether the complaints made by the Central Steering Committee of the ELGA in principle could actually be abducted by the conclusion of this scientific committee in order to enable tobacco to be included in this programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Comrade, here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you referred to the four legal requirements. That these four conditions exist and that the file is complete there is no doubt. I told you. The head of the Rhodope Agricultural Department sees it as well. But you said at the end of the finding that there is a door. Indeed, but in the conclusion we have in hand it says that there are evidences that the drugs used have not helped eliminate the phenomenon. Because the legislation says that if we could deal with this, then they have no right to compensation. So whatever those people did, they couldn't deal with this virion. So, legally under conditions, we don't have a problem. All we lack is one thing: your political will. Let us now come to EUR 100 for the de minimis. Yes, I agree with you, in fact, if the previous government had given what tobacco producers deserved from the de minimis, not 100 euros but 200, 250 euros, that is, if the compensation was reasonable, fair, as the law stipulates, I would not be here today. Nor can this be supplemented by the de minimis. So the only way to be fair to these people is with the NGOs, namely state aid. The government, if it has the will, I repeat, must do so. Otherwise the tobacco producers will doubt this: “We are equal before the law? Does this government, this state, this political leadership want to compensate us? Since we're right on our side, since we really had a 90% disaster. We're monocultured, we're fatal people. Does he have the good will?’. That's what they expect to see from you. And this will be judged, Minister, and I do not say it politically, that this can have an impact on you in the election result. We may belong to other parties, it does not matter, but I think it is very important for the region to receive this fair compensation, which these people really are entitled to. So we're waiting again for this committee, which you announced today, to be done. We expect her to be in this right direction and this process to end quickly so that these people can get their share of this state aid as well from this state aid.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u8	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u9	In view of the fact that as far as the major task of setting up the committee is concerned, we have just agreed, let me say this, so that there are no misunderstandings, and I think that we will also contribute to the public dialogue and understanding of the compensation system. Firstly, the system of compensation is not a social support mechanism or a treatment of poverty. We're clear. The mechanisms for dealing with poverty - I say this from here - are not at the Ministry of Rural Development, they are at another Ministry. We make rural development and we compensate for disasters. We are not supporting the income in this sense. Secondly, without any intention to support the previous government, and not to discuss how it was and how it was - I am talking about de minimis now - I want to make it clear that de minimis is not full compensation, but a support for economic income and indeed, de minimis, i.e. minor income support. Because here there is a misunderstanding and it has been cultivated by populist forces for too many years that the use of de minimis is to cover all the income lost by the producer. It's not like that. It is support for income at a difficult time that for any reason - not only because of a disaster caused by damage, but it can also be from an anomaly created on the market - lost its income. But we do not give him full compensation. We're not giving him his income. We're giving him something. It should not therefore be cultivated for producers too, the expectation that, in the de minimis process, they receive their income back. The second was that. Thirdly, on the question of political will, it is not a question of political will, and that is to be cleared up. The political will - my own - to what I said to you now - is that the committee will be set up. From there on, the scientific findings of the committee are a matter of scientific importance. And it is important that we say this and dismantle this process, because I would remind you that this procedure is controlled by the legality of the aid. If it is political, then I beg your pardon, we are in the definition of non-legal financial aid. In order for the decision to be lawful and to be compensated, it must be scientifically substantiated by a committee which does not have any political intervention or direction in its work. He'll say what he has to say. Therefore, the political will was expressed by my statement before you and by my action subsequently, the act of the ELGA, of the setting up of this special scientific committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u10	We move to No 2008/19-2019 a question about the cycle of petitions and questions by MP Larissa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Vassilis Kossilis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Investing in pharmaceutical and industrial cannabis. Support for primary sector and processing’. The Minister will answer Mr. Voridis. Mr. Chicken, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with Law No 4523/2018, a law which, according to the Ministry of Development's written reply, has been respected by the current government and implemented and followed, provides for the establishment of treatment plants for cannabis medicinal products. It is a law quite innovative and indeed the current government follows it. At the same time as this law from the beginning of 2019, the previous government has wanted to exploit the cultivation of industrial cannabis and, when we say cultivation, we mean processing at the same time. Because if there is no cultivation and processing at the same time, a product does not acquire the added value. That is why a number of decisions have been taken, and I am likely to prevent you from wanting a legal job. But since today's text was incorporated into the written question, which the Ministry of Development answered, but not the Ministry of Rural Development, I am given the opportunity to say that you do not have on the Ministry's agenda the use of the cultivation of industrial cannabis. I'm likely to have a mistake. So you're asking what the political will is in this regard. Do you intend to use the industrial cannabis and its derivatives with everything, I repeat, the problems and the grey zone? You know very well that there is a gray zone in the processing of cannabis industrial cannabis right now. So what is your political will on this matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u12	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, the specific law you mentioned is indeed existing. Everyone has his views on the law. But to the extent that the law exists, it binds and applies. You are asking me specific questions, namely the issue of cannabis medicinal products, when a specific ministerial decision is to be adopted, which regulates the issue of greenhouses standards, which are essential to be adopted so that the situation can proceed. The answer is that there is already work on the draft of this ministerial decision and I am committed that the ministerial decision will have been consulted and adopted in the first half of 2020. This is therefore the time limit for you to make this issue. I want you to know that this has several complex issues and technical and commercial - regulatory. Therefore, this decision you are referring to, which is indeed part of the condition for moving the second part, namely authorising the operation of these units, will have been adopted by the first half of 2020. In your question you are asking for industrial cannabis in order to issue two substantially required joint ministerial decisions on cosmetic and nutritional supplements and the THC content of cannabis. The answer here is that this decision on cosmetics and nutritional supplements is a joint decision by the Ministers for Health and Justice. It's not mine. I can tell you that the EOF answered me, however, and you may be interested in this answer. It is not my competence, but it has answered me in the context of the preparation of this question that any THC content and dietary supplements are prohibited and that it is going to appreciate it. On the food issue, I am telling you that I am considering the adoption of this ministerial decision. I have also consulted at European Commission level on this issue. It has a lot of legal issues and I therefore tell you that I look into it and I will see it. I cannot give you a time horizon on this, because I have not solved the legal issues. So it has a lot of work to make it clear, if you like, the legal landscape in these matters. But I'm telling you, we're looking into it and we're working on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Chicken, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u15	Minister, I will present you with some medical international scientific studies, citing the titles: ‘Cannabidiol inhibits the invasion of cancer cells by means of increased regulation of the inhibitor’, ‘The objective of cannabidiol regulation in the treatment of experimental multiple sclerosis by plate’, ‘Neurological aspects of cannabidiol use’, ‘Cannabidiol provides long-term protection against parasitic effects on viral multiple sclerosis’. These products, Minister, do not contain THC, do not fall under the drug law. And they appeal with me to the People's Association by sclerosis against Plaka, the Cancer Association, which supplies these products from either abroad or illegally, the products produced by the processing of industrial cannabis. From the extraction of industrial cannabis, oil is produced, Minister. I see, while you know very well legally, that you have not dealt with the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u16	Leave that now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u17	No, I'm not leaving anything, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u18	If you want to go to that, let's go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u19	With me to you, the Cancer and Sclerosis Association is appealing. All these derivatives of industrial cannabis procure them either illegally from abroad to ease their suffering - the essential pain, but also the transport - or they import them from abroad. And I see it's not - I said before that, that hemp medication goes on and you're doing well, but - it's not in government planning. Because I am being answered by the Ministry of Justice - you will now agree with this, although from what I have understood in general, you have said before - that it is unresponsible for what I am asking. Don't you give the answer better? Is it possible for the Ministry of Justice to be irresponsible for a matter relating to the drug law? What does that mean? One thing: that you have not dealt with the question of investment in the pharmaceutical and industrial cannabis sector. It is a product, which is firstly ecological, Mr Minister, which gives farmers, entrepreneurs, investors and patients work. Why don't you have it up on the agenda? That's what I'm asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Kokalis, as a doctor, I would like to ask you to submit these studies in the Minutes, because I would like to see whether the clinical studies have completed five years and what results they have achieved. Because many times we are at the level of clinical studies without any conclusions being drawn. I'm not saying it's not serious, I just want it as a doctor to see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u21	My clubs have presented them. I'm not a doctor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u22	You know, the patient's despair often... Good. I just want to look for them and read them. Medically more. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned studies, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, you have spoken for the first time. Mr. Red, let's clarify them a little, because I don't know if you guys are involved. You've been involved, but I think you've been more involved in technicians. I, for my part, have also made the Ministry of Health a more comprehensive view of these issues. Firstly, as far as patients are concerned, it requires authorisation from the EOF. It has nothing to do with what we are talking about, the food. No relationship. Patients once they have a golfette that has THC under 0,2 have nothing to do with pain and relief and multiple sclerosis. It's about the medicine. So if they want to go, those who want to make these products, be authorized by the EOF, and there will be the question - and I would inform you - of the clinical studies that will document the beneficial effects of this substance on this disease.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u24	They're not drugs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u25	We're talking about the drug cannabis now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u26	You're messing with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u27	Am I mistaken? Well, cannabis medicinal products in order to have a medicinal status and to be treated as a medicinal product processed, in fact, in the place where it is grown, is required - as we say about the medicine, now export is another discussion - authorisation by the EOF. That's none of my business. I don't know if there's such an application. I'm talking about license as a medicine. As far as I hear, there's such an application for a medicine. Now, you asked me something else, you asked me three questions, and I come back to them. You said cosmetics, food supplements, food. These three things you told me. I'm telling you, cosmetic and nutritional supplements aren't mine. It's the Department of Health. In terms of cosmetics, however, I tell you that EOF answers me, ‘No’ no presence. Because what these people are asking about manufacturing at industrial level is'specify the THC that may be found'. That's what they're asking. They don't ask any more questions. Because if there's no psychotropic percentage, then we're not talking about anything. But because there is and is found, what do they want? They want to set the limit. So the EOF answers about cosmetics: None at all can be found. It reserves the issue of food supplements and I now come to the foodstuff. So in the food they are asking for this, I would once again say that there are legal matters that are important for what is the percentage that is allowed to appear. That's what we're talking about. If no percentage appears...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u28	No percentage.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u29	For the percentageless, there's no question, because we don't actually have a psychoactive substance, so it doesn't fall under the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u30	There's a grey belt, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u31	Oh, no. What people ask for - I say to you again - is to define them the specifications, the indications, the recommendations, to define them what this rate is. And while in agriculture we have 0.2% - as you know below 0,2, a question is born, because cultivation does not necessarily mean that it leads to processing. There may be use, for example in the clotting, of another use. But when we return to the food, that is where it is required to legislate. In the legislation, however, a number of legal issues are being raised. I do not want to discuss these legal issues in public now - and I say again because - because at the moment and at the level of Europe is a quite pertinent matter of what to do with the food - we now agree on the food we say - on what category it is, whether it is a novel food - which, in my opinion, is - must therefore be placed in the regulation on novel foods. So there is an entire debate, there is a debate and there is a debate on what the United Nations provides for, so it is a wide-ranging debate, which I am once again studying in depth - so please do not tell me that I do not know and do not do - I am studying it very carefully, so that I can give the right solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Voridis. You're a free service! We are now moving on to the third with number 484/7-2-2020, a topical question by Mr. Larissa's Change Movement, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Let the traditional two-day distillers be treated as criminals', which will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Development and Investment - and by my friend Nikolaos Papathanases. Because no one considers them in the Chamber "criminals", the word "criminals", please enter into introductory terms. Here you go, Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u33	I hope that the answer given by the State Secretary responsible, in fact, will match her introductorys. Today, Mr President-in-Office, we have come to discuss traditional pancakes and pancakes, which if you have never had the chance to go, then I have to take you to Larissa to enjoy an extremely traditional process that produces the authentic bulk of tsipouro and the authentic bulk of tsikoudia, respectively, in the areas that are produced.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u34	A little bit of a call. Don't just take it to the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u35	Of course, in the hope that you will also call me your friend sometime. I live with that hope, Mr President. The call is open to the whole House and to our president, of course. With a circular of the General Secretariat of Trade and Consumer Protection on 20 January 2020, you raised the world up and took the smile from the pancakes and pancakes, and that cost us a lot. And while you know that this is a traditional process where the people of the countryside, the producers who have this cultural heritage from the Minoan era and have been carrying it to date, and while you know that they fulfil every condition and every condition - so that I do not talk about it in systematic drinking, let this be another painful subject - let me say that they have been crushed in various ways and at times, for many years, but unfortunately now it seems that the knife has been put to the bone and simply say that this product can no longer be called 'bulk tsipouro' and 'bulk tsipouro' respectively, 'traditional tsipouro'. I have all the legislation and I quote it in the brief text of the timely question, Mr Minister, and you have also seen that there is no ban in the legislation at all on this legislation. If you insist on this, and I hope you tell us today that you do not insist, tell us that this is a misunderstanding, tell us that this circular did not take the legislation, I will come to my dentistry to show you that legislation nowhere is talking about such a ban. But because I imagine you know what "Cauds" and "Cauds" mean, maybe I don't even have to do a second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Papathanassis, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u37	I'd like to thank Mrs. Lykoulis for the invitation. But I would like to tell you, Mrs Liikanouli, that because I come from the Greek region - and I am proud - I have often had the opportunity to find myself in this process. And I would say that it is indeed a process which is traditional and is an intangible property which our people have. However, I would like to say that your question refers to a number of laws and regulations starting in 2001. So you are referring to an interpretative circular on the control we are obliged to do as the Ministry of Development. And I would like to remind you that the Ministry of Development has competence to control and protect the consumer. Therefore, you refer to an interpretative circular that starts from 2001 with Law 2969, continues with the European Regulation 110 of 2008, continues with Law 4583 of 2018, then with the Ministerial Decision 9135 of 2017 and ends with the decision of the ADP in 2019. We, therefore, come as a Ministry of Development to give an interpretation of how the market can be controlled by control mechanisms. Now let's go see what the state's obligation is. Clearly the obligation of the state and state is to protect the small distillers and that is what it does, to protect them and to strengthen them and we will talk shortly later on how that state does it. At the same time, however, it is an obligation for the state and the state to protect the consumer. It also protects trademarks, and that means that it protects products of designation of origin, but also products of geographical indication, and that is what we are talking about, we are talking about tick and tick. And then it is an obligation for the state to comply with European regulations. So tsipuro and tsipuda are products of a geographical indication. And in accordance with Annex 2, Article 6 and 3 of the European Community Regulation No 110/2008 in order to enable these products to receive that name, a technical dossier must be lodged by the Greek State. In the technical file, the entire production process and how these products should be placed on the market is specified. I believe that perhaps in my dentext, we are referring to the technical file. And I am sure that you have also taken this technical file into account. On the other hand, however, we say that in order to protect these names we should see exactly how the product is produced and how it is available. With regard to the privileges - and because you refer to the privileges and because of the number of producers - I would like to say to you that the privileges of producers, of these small producers - distillers are that they can be distilled for about eight days, with a cotton of 130 kg. A total of 1200 to 1300 litres are produced. They pay 1,2 euros per litre, compared with 12 euros per litre produced by them, who produce it industrially. And of the total of fifty thousand applications approved every year only for forty thousand are for private use. And you are actually talking about the difference between the forty-seven thousand and fifty-thousand producers, namely four thousand producers. And the difference, Mr President, is - and we need to see what production means by distillers - that distillers, small distillers can distill grape raisins and other fruits, such as: Purple, mule, helmets, ticks and honey residues, while systematic distillers can only distill grape raisins.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u38	Here you go, Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u39	Undersecretary, if I knew that you would tell me this, I would interrupt - I repeat, with respect - to tell you that I know all this. I know the technical file, I have it with me. I know the procedures. I know the terms. I read the rules. I'm also a judiciary, and it's easier you know, to read these things. You're here to tell us today about the procedure. The two days of distillers are waiting for you to listen to this. We know the technical process. And let me tell you something, why you're opening it now. I read the files, and sometimes we also have to comment on the press: "Actually, the checks are exhausting, and the conditions, as you said, Mr Minister, are very strict and have percentages and have the procedure and have the price and have the tax and have where they come from and only from pure rams and so on. We know the process. Our point is that the product produced is characterized, it is an intangible value, as you said culturally over time, dating from the Minoan era and so on. We know that, we agree. I think I see your node. So, what do we have to discuss if all that we say and all this technical file, which you have told us and all the conditions that start from 2001? You pulled out an interpretative circular, you now, in 2020. You do well to take her out. However, this whole process is characterised by a name: 'traditional bulk tsipouro'. So we come to the House today and say to you, as people say: 'We are destroyed if this title is taken from us and cannot thus be made available to retail'. Is there really, Mr Minister, any of you, from your consultants, from the technicians, from all of them, from all of them, these great thoughts that claim that if someone goes to a traditional café - you go and tell me you're already going - and sit down and order a 'two-day distillery'? Is that what you're telling us? You're not telling us. You can't tell us. I can't believe you're telling us. It will order 'bulk tsipouro', as we know it everywhere, not only in the countryside, but also in the districts of Athens and everywhere we know that this is the name. People meet all the standards. Are they subjected to strict checks that we know what we're saying? "Even more stringent controls, and those who put smuggling on those who affect the products. Even stricter controls on them. And stop that circuit. But the traditional 'caustics' should - in my view, and I am not political now, but I am referring to our cultural heritage, which also has traditional products, Mr Minister - will disappear, extinguishing their name. Because the name is an identity, as you know, it's not just a title, it's the identity of the product. Well, we invite you not to disappear them. And I'm waiting for your dentistry to talk to me about the name. And they know all about the technical files. Tell us what you're going to do with the name of the traditional bulk of tsipouro? And how will you get this circular - please very - back?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Liikali. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u41	I mentioned earlier that starts from 2001. The state, therefore, nineteen years, has been following this development and in order to secure the name, the name of a geographical indication, it has lodged a technical file. The technical file was filed by the General Chemistry of the State. Because you have said that - and I have no reason to question it - that you read the technical file, I note that in the technical file, which I shall submit to the House, it is stated that in order to be able to have that name, the name, it must be bottling - the bottling is mentioned - takes place in the area that the product is produced. That's the one. I also want to tell you that the sensitivity of the state is here, because we have started talking to producers and producers of Larissa and Crete, so we will see how we can deal with the name case on production. But here, the main condition is that the Ministry and the State must not use and operate the laws, but must apply the laws. I repeat, it is something that began nineteen years ago, in a PASOK government with this law and was completed with the SYRIZA Government's ministerial decisions and with the SYRIZA Government's decision. We have therefore given a clear circular how to check because we have a duty to protect the consumer. To let the consumer know exactly what he drinks, what exactly he orders in a restaurant he goes to. I also want to tell you that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u42	For the name's sake, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u43	Keep going and I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u44	Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u45	I would like to tell you that the privileges I mentioned earlier I think you know them and it is clear. Therefore, the state is here to support these small distillers and the tax paid is EUR 1.2 per litre, compared with EUR 12 per litre. And at the same time I want to tell you that only 6% ask for production beyond self-consumption. So this is something that we are interested in and we will approach. In the end, however, we should above all protect the consumer. We will continue to discuss with producers so that we can find a commonly accepted solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Papathanasis. We shall now proceed to the next two topical questions, which will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Interior, Mr Theodoros Lebanon. The first, with number 479/4-2-2020, will be discussed first of all by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssea Constantinople, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Addressing the unfavourable administration of graduates of the Department of Music Studies of the Ionian University, with a view to the 1C/2019 of ASEP." Mr. Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think you've taken this into account. We had the Minister of Education here last week, which said publicly that what happened is not equivalent. In other words, it is not possible for graduates of the same department of the EDPS and of the EDD to take the molecules, and for reasons not relevant to the Department of the Ionian University, these people in the new CSCE notice not to take the molecules. Mrs. Keramea accepted it herself, so I'm stopping there. But I'm on my way to what Mrs. Keramea said. Mrs Kerameus replied to me that she has made a recommendation to the AACC - I cannot understand what the recommendation is, but I do not agree with what I understand - so that she accepts the molecules relating to the granting of a uniform and undivided postgraduate degree. He tells me, I've made the suggestion, but I can't commit to you. We have come to you today, Minister, because I believe in the Ministry of Interior. I also told the Minister, I do not think the Minister would like to do that, nor does the government want half the graduates to get the molecules and the other half not to get them. But there's something to be done here. What can we do so that there is no problem? Do we have to do something about the supporting documents they're going to produce? Is there a regulation to be made? Is there to be consultation with S.H.I.E.L.D.? That's why we called you today, Minister, here. Because I think it is worth giving a solution. It is about a thousand families who today know we're being watched. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Constantinople, thank you for the time. The State Secretary for the Interior, Mr Lebanon, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President, I will follow Mr Constantinople's example of time. Look, it's an AACC notice and the applications completed a few days ago, on 3 February. Two and a half thousand applications have been submitted, there is this issue with discreet treatment. The process of recognizing a curriculum as embedded postgraduate, the integrated so-called, has a specific process. There is a recommendation from the Quality Assurance Authority to higher universities and then the Minister of Education's accreditation act comes out. Right now, the contest's under way. What can be done, as the AACC enjoys constitutional self-determination and independence and does not accept - and should not - interventions should be made by the political leadership of any Ministry, especially the Interior, what will be done is in the context of the submission of any objections, an assessment by the AACC, which is legally decided, and indeed its decisions are not entirely self-sufficient and are neither subject to legal review by anyone, nor to a judicial judgement. So what can be done is that those who want to submit and think they are entitled to object, go to the AACC to submit the objection and the AACC will examine them on the grounds of competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u50	My colleague has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u51	Minister, I want to tell you I didn't understand. The Minister told me one more thing, but you did the other thing. I understand that you have spoken in relation to the autonomy of the AACC, to God, in no case do we want to take any action that favours one, two or three. We are talking here, Minister, and we want you to understand it as a government - which the Minister accepted here in the Chamber, I am not saying it - that there is no equivalence, that mistakes have been made, but 'I am doing this'. Now think, Minister, that we cannot find a solution for these children. We do not, of course, say to intervene in favour of a group to give it a right which the state has not, for six months, neglected - in the Minister's office last time - and did not give the act of credentials. I understand that this is not about you, but it is a very big issue. Please, for something, which is not just to do for some people, are there a thousand people who, what are they asking for? Their degree under the law, to be recognized in the AACC, as recognized for the AACC and for the EACC. It's nothing else. I think we can find a solution. I think your answer disappoints the world. I understand that you do not want to intervene in the AACC, and we certainly do not ask you to take any action in the AACC, to God! It is, however, a negligence of the public, the government, the state, for these children. Please, Minister, and I tell you many times, because it is unfair that these children do not have the molecules in this contest, where they do not know when to be a competition again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Undersecretary, he has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u53	Dear Mr Constantinople, I fully understand the issue that has been raised. I am sure that the AACC always moves with the public on a legal basis and I think it will assess this issue very sensitively. I repeat that one of the biggest conquests in the country is the establishment of the AACC. We need to see how it will be strengthened, how it will proceed to speed up and improve the operation of all the notices published, how it will best do its work in terms of staffing and in terms of resources it needs. What I am sure the leadership of the AACC will do is to see this issue in the light of justice and the public about the law. Unfortunately, the action that the Ministry of Interior can take - because I have the honour of answering your question - especially on this particular subject, is, as you can see, limited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u54	We are now moving on to the second debate under number 499/11/2020 on the second time question, by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The need to re-issue an additional invitation to cover organic positions in local government agencies (OTAs) 1 degree". Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, this came to me at the request of the Workers' Association of the Municipality of Agia Varvaras. This is a case that starts with a worker, but from what we have seen, it concerns dozens of workers in too many municipalities throughout Greece. He has been working as a wastewater driver for ten years. He is fifty-seven years old and is in danger of being unemployed for a very simple reason. Although positions have been announced through APA for this category, in order to recruit these workers who have been under private law for so many years, the invitation has not reached too many municipalities, it has not been posted, the workers have not been informed. This has resulted, although the workers have been looking for this invitation, in that we can never find the post, in that there is no posting to the municipalities, and therefore the application is not being made and, at the moment, at the risk of unemployment. The issue is at the level of self-evident for a very simple reason. The lack of information was so great that applications did not even reach the percentage of open positions. The positions in the notice have never been paid. So we ask you to call this invitation again, at least for the posts that have not been covered. We think it is self-evident for people who meet all the conditions. I think it is unfair for a lack of information, which is the responsibility of the state, not to be able to cover the necessary jobs for the Ottawas but also to find them after ten years of work for unemployment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u56	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. I have the impression that this issue is about a human being throughout Greece. There's no other way. The relevant secondary trade union organisation, the WTO - ITA, has never raised this issue for this specific notice. A post was announced in this notice to the Municipality of Agia Varvaras, as requested by the Municipality of Agia Varvaras. For some reason, no application has been made by the staff member concerned. I would remind you that this competition also took place on the previous political leadership of the Ministry of Interior. However, that there was no information, that there was no information from the AACC, when so many tens of thousands of applications were submitted to various competitions across Greece, I think it was not an argument. What will happen is the official himself - because they have reached a specific case - in the subsequent notices that will come out of his specialty, they may well apply. There is the so-called supplementary 3K, which will come out in a few weeks. So once the first wave of final tables, locations, objections, the whole of the 3K, the big competition notice, has been completed, it can also be well applied in order to legalise it. What I have to say is that we have no other specific issue with regard to this notice. I think that, as I had and was informed by the Municipality of Agia Varvaras, it is more one, if you like, of the exception, which will be resolved with the participation of the person concerned in a subsequent competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u58	Here you go, Mr Arseni.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Undersecretary, five hundred and fifty-seven were proclaimed and finally a hundred forty employees were appointed by the two hundred twelve beneficiaries. It is obviously not a specific case. Either the notice was wrong and gaps were identified which were not there or simply were not properly informed and the number of applications has never been reached, because very simply people did not know about it. It's a lot of cases. I will testify to you and send you to the Ministry and their names, from various municipalities, as I will testify for the Practicals the text of the Association of Workers and Officials of the Municipality of Agia Varvaras, from which we have received the information. But again, I tell you that the issue goes beyond the Municipality of Agia Varvaras. There are too many municipalities in all of Greece with similar cases. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I would ask you to look at this a little bit and really to make this reopening progress, at least until the number published has been covered. When, in the situation in which the country lives and with unemployment and with the range of unemployment from which too many people are threatened, we have a job notice and applications are not enough to cover these positions, then something went wrong. Obviously, there was no proper information.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u60	Here you go, Mr. Levanie.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u61	As President Kaklamanis could have told you in his long experience and as mayor, the issue of contractors is so complex that a notice may have anticipated some positions. At the same time, the officials concerned may, by a judicial decision, have remained in the municipalities, won first-class courts, those judgments have now been finalised, and the issue of those officials has been resolved and they have taken a further road outside the notice. There were a number of hundreds, I'd say, court rulings concerning contractors. Thus, the contract of these contractors was transformed from a certain period of time to an indefinite period. I think that is the main reason why there is a difference in positions. In any case, I repeat that the positions relating, in particular, to the 3K are being reopened. And there will be a gap, because some already retired or permanently settled through the judiciary and will be able to submit positions there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr Levanne. The cycle of your own questions is over. Let's go to the last circle that the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer, Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis. The second question under number 495/11-2-20 will be discussed in the first cycle of Mr Christos Katsostis, Member of the European Parliament, B3'South Athens, of the Communist Party of Greece, on the distinction between the pension and the insured, in accordance with No.4387/16. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, according to L.4387/16, in addition to the major overturns in the insurance rights of all those insured by segregating pensions into national and payroll, the change in the method of calculating pensions, the abolition of the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions, which are your own work, the increase in the age limits to sixty-seven, the abolition of supplementary pensions and other arrangements, which, of course, all of which, according to the last bill, are relegated, introduces a distinction for those who do not have forty-five years of residence in Greece - including, of course, the relatives - for which the current Prime Minister had, in an election, committed to abolishing this arrangement. In particular, Article 7, which refers to the national pension, states: ‘Second, especially in the case of pension rights, the national pension shall be paid to beneficiaries if they reside permanently and legally in Greece for at least fifteen years between the 15th year of the age and the year in which they complete the statutory pension age limit. The permanent residence for citizens of areas outside the European Union shall be demonstrated in accordance with the intended procedure for granting residence permits to them. The amount of the national pension shall be reduced for pensioners because of an old age by one forty for each year remaining in Greece, between the 15th year of the age and the year in which they complete the prescribed age limit for the pension.’ With this regulation, in particular, forty years, you are condemning workers who have built all the infrastructures of the country in the Olympic Games, the airport, which have been crippled in the works and infrastructure, but also in other sectors of the economy, in tourism and elsewhere, and in many of them with work since 1992, to grant them a national 'bugs' pension. We have set an example in the question which is characteristic. One who applies for retirement in 2017 with 15 years and twenty-five years of residence in Greece receives a national pension of EUR 215,62, i.e. EUR 129,38 less than the general conditions of insurance provide, i.e. EUR 345. One, too, who submits 20 years of age, in 2019, twenty-seven years in our country, takes 259 euros, namely EUR 124 less national pension than the same insured person working in the same place, with the same salary, the same year. In addition to being classified as 'unacceptable' and discriminatory against insured persons...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u64	Ask the question, Mr Katatotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u65	I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, in spite of the promises for correction by the New Democracy Party, it continues to apply Article 7 of Law4387/2016, which would be committed to abolishing. We ask you, Minister, if you intend to abolish this distinction regarding the residence time of the insured person in Greece, regardless of nationality, and to ensure the same conditions of pension for all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u66	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the question posed by Mr Katsotis is a crucial and important question. And I must say before the National Representation to restore the truth to a matter that is also topical, as in a few days' time from now, the great insurance reform that will leave its print deep, as it restores injustices. This is an insurance reform, which for the first time will be accompanied by a proportionate study, which will firstly show that the system fulfils sustainability conditions by 2070. Secondly, that very soon Greece's pension expenditure will be on the European average for GDP, which means that we are finally gaining a healthy, sustainable, attractive, stable insurance system for the first time in Greece with a future perspective. And to the question, Mr President, which was brought to the Greek citizens, and above all to the young children, 'I shall be retired'? The answer is 'yes, I'll be retired'. This is a decent pension, which will come out of an insurance system that is stable, healthy, that everyone can once again trust public social security. Secondly, the question Mr Katsotis raises on the basis of the question raised by the Communist Party of Greece, to give everyone a pension, independent of Greek citizenship, directly replying to him: Since 2010, quite rightly, this first social security reform had come the concept of "national and rewarding pension". It's the Law Loverdus - Kutrumani. Then, as Minister, in 2012-2014, I kept it. The Katougalu law kept it. I repeat, the new insurance reform also holds it, because it is right. It is right, because the national pension comes to give the Greek citizens a privileged financial support to strengthen their pensions. And the reward part is what we're improving now. We leave the Katorugalou law behind and make the system payroll so that someone lives longer. Take note, however, and I will say it to make it understandable in the world: this national pension is paid by the Greek taxpayer's pocket. Make a simple multiplication: The two and a half million pensioners over three million eight hundred thousand, if we all say that they all go to twenty and sixty-two for twelve months, they give us a figure of 11.5 billion euros, which the state budget puts on. These are not contributions from what someone paid for in his work. Who pays for this, Mr Katsotis. Are we going to get support from a state? Will it give us a state to pay a national pension 'for everyone', as you say? But because your question also has a hint in it and closes the eye on the Greek Northcontinentals, I will respond to my denture, for the Northcontinentals. One more thing: The Prime Minister has never committed himself to the whole. The Prime Minister of the country pledged only the part of the Greek north-west, which he considered for reasons of the same national conscience that we should restore it. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u68	Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u69	I am not surprised by the Minister's answer. In addition, in the morning, Mr. Portsalte as the government's " press representative" gave an answer to this question we have today and referred to the relatives from the North continent, who have a gathering on Klathmonos square this afternoon. It has also been mentioned in the Minister's commitment that in a second phase, another bill will resolve the matter. That is what the'speaking spokesman' said, Mr Portasulte. I imagine that's what the Minister will answer in his denology. Minister, you're talking about an insurance reform coming. I must tell you that the reform that comes is no other than the law of Katrugalos, which has of course acquired a second god and is now called the 'Katrugalos - Brutsi' law. That's the law that's coming. Keeps everything. It is what is called the 'lawful glutton'. It is what we called'sciskers'. You're the biggest now. Because beyond that, after here, it is well known that you will go to talk to the association of the professional funds. This is what you promote, the capitalisation system. Promote the Pinochet model, the three pillars, the privatisation of insurance, where he will know what contributions the employee gives, especially the young man and the new one, but he will not know when to get back. Because all this, it'll be on the market. They'll be played in gambling, in the various stock market products. You tell him to invest his contributions in low-risk, medium- and high-risk. "Would you like a high pension?"...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u70	You'll tell them in the bill. Talk about the question now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u71	I'm on it. Mr President, I beg your pardon, you have made me an observation which is unfair. Because the Minister generally replied. And I'm not allowed to answer in general. That is unfair, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u72	I didn't forbid you. We're wasting time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u73	The world sees your observation. And it's not right. So because we have before us - if you like - the insurance bill, as you said, the strike on the 18th month gives an answer. Tens of labour centres, federations, unions across Greece will respond to this bill you bring. Because they know that very well. They read it. They know who the victims of your policy are. And the answer will be given on Tuesday 18 February, of course, with a further escalation. Mr Minister, you say: "The Greek taxpayer pays from his pocket". So these aren't taxpayers, Minister? For example, is the person who has twenty-seven years of residence not taxed? So the one who has twenty-seven years of work, wasn't they taxed the same? So why are you saying that the person who is taxed and is a Greek citizen will receive the national pension, but the person who is taxed and has no forty years of residence will not receive the same pension? What distinction is that? What racism is that in a worker who built the airport, built the Olympic Games? He built everything here and told him he wasn't taxed. What's that thing? Where do you support this position? What are you doing now? You tell the Greek: "You know, don't agree with them. This worker is not Greek. It's from somewhere else." Tell me: What's the difference? Is it taxed, yes or no? The separation - you say - has been made by you. Good for you! I call it ironic, of course. You're saying it can't be given to everyone regardless of nationality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I ask you again: why? Because this distinction, while the foreign worker who is here, beyond the Northcontinent, who is certainly a relative, beyond the others, who - if you like - fondle their ears...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Katsotis, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u75	...take them closer, and you have them as an election client. Apart from these, there are the workers as a whole who - if you like - have suffered the consequences of this policy, which you, apparently, do not want to change. We, again, want the homosexuals and the expatriates to hear this afternoon...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u76	All right, hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u77	...and we invite them on the 18th month to be at the gathering, where they will claim their request too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u78	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u79	Look, Mr President, Mr Katsotis is irresponsibly obsessed with a conception. What does Mr Katsotis say, ladies and gentlemen? We're being watched by the new kids. He says: "All the world, come to Greece. And in Greece, Greek taxpayers, Greek citizens, through their troubles and sweat will give you a pension." So it says Mr Katsotis: Afghanistan, Pakistan - and I am sorry to say to countries to make it a little more understandable - Morocco, Algeria, come and those who work here, apart from having the Greek nationality, you will receive the national pension provided by the legislator and well paid. I repeat, three major parties in the House, PASOK, New Democracy and SYRIZA, agreed with Europe, now have a solid system that, in its philosophy, develops the national pension, which is the product of taxation and the labor of the Greek taxpayer, who was born here, who was raised here, to give support to the pension. Mr Katsotis says: "No, Greeks were taxing, paying any refugee and immigrant comes to Greece. Share money." And in fact, he's calling on the strike...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u80	That's not what I said in my speech. They're taxers too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u81	And indeed Mr Katsotis calls on the strike...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u82	No designations, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u83	But he described me a little earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u84	Let the words be erased.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u85	He says, "Come to the country's insurance strike, all immigrants, to strengthen the Communist Party along the way against an insurance person who the Communist Party tells you. Come on strike to strike against Greek workers and insured persons, get their pension, level it up, go 80% below the pension."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u86	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u87	Because Mr. Katsotis doesn't say who's gonna give the money. Will the Communist Party give the pension money, or will Mr. Katsotis in his pocket?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u88	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Kathoto, please! Please do not write anything in the Minutes. Mr Katsotis has no say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u90	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Katsotis, I know you're upset. Will you give the money out of your pocket?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u92	...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Katsotis, I'm going to stand up!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u94	...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u95	Nothing is written in the Minutes from what Mr Katsotis says. Absolutely nothing!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u96	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u97	Calm down! Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u98	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u99	You won't tell the Minister, neither will I.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u100	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Katsotis, calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u102	...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Katsotis, I'm going to stand up! I'm old too!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u104	...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Katsotis is interested.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u106	Minister, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u107	It's interesting how he reacts. Because from the way Mr Katsotis reacts, he seems to be disturbing when I say he will pay for what he says and promises...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u108	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, this is not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u110	Nothing is written in the Minutes from what you say outside of the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u111	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u112	You won't tell him how he'll answer you. He didn’t tell you what you were saying either.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u113	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u114	Please calm down! I'm revoking you in class! Go on, Minister, and close yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u115	I'll talk, 'cause he interrupted me. I didn't talk at all. His holidays show a notion of anti-democraticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u116	You've been talking for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u117	No, I'm not talking, Mr. President. More in my dentistry...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u118	Good. Finish it, please! We have two bills that follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, what Mr Katsotis is doing is unacceptable. It causes the anger and memory of all Greeks as it calls on the strike for the supposedly anti-insurance, which is a structural insurance reform, all refugees and immigrants, by pensioning everyone. "Come and make a strike against the Greeks to get from the state budget of the Greeks money for the promotional reinforcement of Greek pensions, to share it with everyone," not to say whether he will give it from his pocket or whether he will give it...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u120	Minister, please. Third time you repeat this. Third time!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u121	Before he interrupted me. The only exception that the Ministry of Labour will see - and the Prime Minister has committed himself - next month - not in this bill, Mr President, because that is just an insurance reform - concerns the issue of the relatives of Northern Epirus. It's something that the Ministry of Labour is currently working on. We will not settle any social charges, pensions within the insurance reform. The part of Northern Epirus, our relatives, we are working on it and we will see it in a special way, as the Prime Minister has promised next month, in our next legislative intervention on the part of the Ministry of Labour.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u122	Which will come to the House, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u123	Mr President, this bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u124	Sort of.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u125	March - April. The two months of March - April.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u126	Good. It's recorded in the Minutes and we'll all remember it. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western gallery of the House, forty-seven students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Kamaterou General High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move to the fifth under number 496/11-2-2020 on a second-round question by the MP of Heraklion's Change Movement, Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou, on the subject: "Inadmissible, irrevocable and illegal, the decision not to apply the legislation for the payment of reduced contributions for a year from insured persons who have acquired a child". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. It is a well-known demographic problem facing the country. It is well known that the positions of all the parties in the committee set up at the initiative of the Change Movement have been expressed as an undeniable need and indeed with concrete proposals that have been included in the conclusion. We should therefore be in this direction with all our initiatives to support the family, children and mothers in order to help us deal with the problem. I would remind you that legislation since 2004 improved in 2008 and subsequently concerns support for mothers for a year with the possibility of paying reduced insurance contributions by 50%, so that these mothers have an indirect support with these reduced insurance contributions. Unfortunately, there were two circulars of the SYRIZA period, which somewhat blurred things, and it seemed that there was no impartiality and justice in the way the circulars dealt with them. The New Democracy Government is coming and what is it doing? Instead of correcting what precedents have done wrong with the circulars to amend laws, they do exactly the same. So the Ministry itself does not apply the law, although the law is valid on the basis of directives that have been given, and it is unfair, and we call on the Minister to tell us whether he intends to review this position of the Ministry, by improving and lifting any arrhythmias that were one of the two circulars of SYRIZA and by launching a fair treatment for mothers with children and for the prediction that there is and was maintained in the crisis. And it was important that in the crisis this provision was preserved. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u128	Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. I also thank Mr Kegeroglu for his opportunity to restore a reality. He is right to the question posed by Mr Kegeroglu. I would also like to congratulate him, firstly, on his quick reflexes, because that is the role of opposition, Mr Kegerolgos. Where you see that we really have a deficit, that's where the opposition is needed. Secondly, the sensitivity which is undoubtedly common to all of us and the recognition of the great issue called demographic and, thirdly, the institutional way in which you make the point. And I say the last one, Mr Kegeroglu, because you, as a representative of the Change Movement, have chosen the way to come to Parliament, because another colleague from another party, has chosen to highlight an issue on which SYRIZA has the main responsibility for this inconvenience that was created for only a two-month period, to be precise, perhaps for a month, if anyone sees it, only for the month of January, because it will be restored in February. And I'm explaining. Indeed, Mr Kegeroglu, the legislation of 3227/2004 and of 365/2008 brought this positive, beneficial provision of reduced contributions for mothers who have a child. That's the truth. This was held throughout the period with the exception of when the law of Katrugalo came 4387/2016. This was then the case: it did not include the specific provision for working mothers the law, thus creating an empty law. In the empty law there were doubts through the services and then SYRIZA was wrongly forced to react. What was SYRIZA supposed to do? To bring in an amendment bearing the order of business, supplementing No.4387. He didn't do it and he chose the way of the circular. And quite rightly Mr. Metarakis interrupted this circular in the sense that it was not based on law. I would like to confess to you something, Mr President. Unfortunately, at the Ministry of Labour I've seen things that are inconceivable. A large part of the implementation of the insurance law is done with circulars and not with the law. There was the law and it wasn't applied because SYRIZA was getting out. But that's another matter. We'll talk about it in insurance. Mr Kegeroglu, in fact, I would like to reply to your question: In the insurance reform that comes into Parliament next week, we come by law and not by circular and finally to restore the issue that was created, the legal vacuum, in January and February, for these two months. Thank you for the question. I have nothing more to say. I respond to your question in a positive way and say: 'Yes, you asked the question.'
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u130	Good. He'll be very happy, Mr. Kegeroglu, but I'll give him his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. I must stress, because you referred to the intervention of another party - each party has the right to intervene - that, in my view, Tuesday morning, such as the deadline, we tabled the topical question on this issue and Tuesday afternoon, after the questions had been communicated to the parties and saw that there was a communication, which, in my view, was a secondary reaction to a problem, but which was created because of them, and primarily because of the Katrugalo law, as usual, of Law No.4387, which did not include the provisions and the way that this problem was intended and created. But, Minister, Mr. Metarakis has now left the Ministry of Labour, but do not justify him. It was unacceptable the way in which the provision was interrupted. Mr. Metarakis knew very well that within a month the bill would come. He had no reason since the bill came to stop this supply, cause this inconvenience and also give food to those who have a responsibility to go out and out because that's what you did. That's what Mr. Metarakis did in communication. It had to bring regulation and correct the matter or bring the amendment, which you said SYRIZA had to bring. Let Mr Metarakis bring her immediately, correct the matter and move on. It is unacceptable that the circular that came out, and I must tell you that it was also based on the fact that we are giving the allowance. What brings these? I'm telling you, for the sake of knowledge. That is the idea, while you know very well that when we discussed the allowance, we have all said that it is good, that we are voting on it, but it is not enough, because it needs a package of demographic measures, which really will give a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u132	Covered, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u133	So I am pleased with Mr Brutsi's final reaction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u134	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u135	Do not eat us, Mr President, and the time we are entitled to. Okay, if we're going any further.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u136	You know we have time pressure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u137	Thank you. I'm done. Mr Brutsi's reaction is positive, but - I note again that - we should not have had to ask this question and Mr Metarakis should not have made this right and that the regulation should be retroactive. To withdraw this circular. Take note, Mr President, that it does not apply for a period of time. Oh, no. The regulation must be of a retroactive nature from where it stops to apply to matters which can be done and which are useful and if the whole amount has been paid, it must be offset into subsequent insurance contributions. Thank you very much and I look forward to the retroactive force of these regulations in the bill to be very important that we will discuss insurance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u138	Minister, you have the floor. Only the second part of retrospectiveness to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u139	Thank you. Mr Kegeroglu, I have to restore the truth in the sequence of events. There was an empty law from the law of SYRIZA, the Kakrugalou law, which created the legislative gap on the basis of which they were created and gained significant questions by the services. So it's entirely SYRIZA's responsibility. The pending issue shall be created as from 1 January 2020. So we don't have a long transition of a gap. We can deal with it. But I must confirm, Mr Kegeroglu, that you have asked the question first, namely the Change Movement through you, and then by non-institutional means through the contents of its communication, SYRIZA, in a hybrid way, while he was responsible for the legislative gap that was created, he came - he says - to find out the issue of New Democracy and the Government, which he created. Mr. Kegeroglu, I'm leaving SYRIZA aside. People judge him. His responsibility is the legislative anomaly created. So I say to you that, within the law that comes to insurance reform, there is a provision that clearly, definitively and permanently restores the issue of women - mothers who have a child, for that is the demographic policy and the policy of Mr Mitsotakis and all of us to support the family. That's the one. Secondly, the request you say must have retroactive effect, of course it will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u140	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western gallery of the House forty-three students and students and three educational attendants from the General High School of Attica. The House welcomes you. We are closing the cycle of the current questions with the sixth question under number 501/11-2-2020. The second question from MP B2's West Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister of State, George Gerapetritis, on the subject: "Survey of the government's coordination initiatives on the rights of SMEs". The present Minister of State will answer George Gerapeitris. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the rights of ASEAN are an issue that has dealt with us in parliamentary control many times and is a very important issue, precisely because it concerns many citizens who are in a very difficult position and we have not set up the mechanisms as a state to support them, certainly not as much as other states, but certainly not as much as we should. It concerns our international commitment, the CRPD, the UN Convention on the Rights of LEADs, for disabled people. In 2017, this Convention became a law of the State, Law 4488/2017, which lays down guidelines for organisational provisions for the implementation of this Convention and gives you specific coordination powers for the implementation of this Convention. Greece has remained far behind. We have discussed in a previous parliamentary control and all the loose ends noted by the UN Commission on the implementation of this Convention. There is now on the page of the Ministry of State that your competence is indeed recognised. From there, however, there is no other information about people with disabilities who can come back, how can they resort to when there are problems and there is no way of communicating, let alone an instrument that is accessible to people with disabilities. So the question is to clarify whether you have competence, if you want to commit yourself to the initiatives you are taking, and in particular, whether you intend to appoint the National Commission on Human Rights, the ECHR, as part of the monitoring mechanism under Article 33 of the Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr Arsenis, and your consistency in time. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for the timely question, Mr Arseni. I would like to take this opportunity to raise an issue which is of paramount importance to the government and which the Prime Minister himself has brought up at the level of his own office immediately after the elections. Already on August 21, 2019, the Prime Minister accepted the President of the ESDP, the highest trade union organisation, and made a specific timetable under which the issue of promoting the rights of persons with disabilities will function at this particular juncture. I would like to point out, as has just been said, that the Minister of State is indeed designated as the coordinating body with regard to the incorporation of legislation and the promotion of the rights of people with disabilities. The interactive seven-month period has already taken place, and a number of very specific actions have really upgraded this issue. I would like to say first of all that more than ten meetings have already been held at the Maximos Palace and at the offices of the Minister of State with the Higher Organisation, the RESEMEA. For the first time, all secondary associations of disabled people were invited. We have already accepted the Union of the Greek Paralympics, we have accepted the Union of People with Sclerosis Plaka, and at the moment we are talking about there have been very important actions at two levels. The first level is the roadmap on which to develop the legislation for disabled persons, and the second is the activation of a whole public administration towards facilitating disabled people in terms of physical and digital accessibility. At these two levels, I should like to point out the following: Firstly, as regards the part of the roadmap, a technical committee has already been set up, which is composed of experts from all the ministries involved. For the first time this committee, which has made very specific commitments, has been set up. These commitments have to do with the following timetable: Within the month of February, all the relevant ministries will have submitted the mapping of all organisations and bodies involved in disability. This is a pre-emptive action, so that there can be absolute coordination, because it is indeed the case that there is a multiplicity of competence between all the ministries. Within the month of March we will have entrusted the benchmarks, i.e. we will define those entities and persons who can act as means of communication for people with disabilities. We are awaiting the completion of the roadmap and the appointment of the secretaries provided for by Law 4622/2019 for the final state, so that, as a matter of priority, the appointment of secretaries to ensure the continuity of public administration, because they are non-political persons. In September, Mr Papoutsis, we are scheduled to have the national action plan. This is an obligation which has been pending for decades in Greece and we are indeed proud that within a few months we will have this plan, which will essentially be an interoperable instrument for all ministries, so that there is a very specific position of the Greek state as regards the issues of people with disabilities. And in December, in other words, within this year, a law will come which will put all the ministries, interministerially, all the issues of accessibility for people with disabilities and in particular - and I am proud to refer to this - the establishment for the first time in Greece of the national accessibility principle. This is a commitment undertaken by the Greek Government, which has already been notified to all disabled persons.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u144	The rest in your dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u145	And that is why I think that with the national accessibility authority it will actually be easier for people with disabilities to move from a medical model to a genuine integration model. Thanks and apologies for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u146	Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will not take much time in my dentistry, because the legislative process is still pending. I am pleased, Minister, that you have referred to the work that has been done, which seems to be very specific and which you have certainly put forward timetables. You told us about the national action plan in September 2020, you told us about the national accessibility authority in December 2020. We will really wait, because sometimes committees have come together and decided things that have never been implemented. We believe, however, that you mean it and you will. We will be following these dates and we will be here to check the progress of work on the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and on the timetables you have set. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u148	Me, too, Mr. Arseny. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u149	For just a minute, Mr President, I would like to point out and supplement what the honourable Member has rightly said. The fact that for the first time in the Technical Committee, the United Nations Special Committee on Disabled Persons, has been a very extensive representation of the Greek state by the Office of the Minister of State and we have indeed received excellent comments on the presence and the answers we have given. I would like to point out that the National Action Plan will essentially incorporate all the recommendations made, including the use of the National Human Rights Commission as an independent evaluation body for disabled persons and we are in constant interaction with the Special Committee so that the National Action Plan, in the first and second phases, is the National Accessibility Authority and other assessment actions in favour of digital and physical accessibility to incorporate all of the 'acquis' of international disability law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u150	So we have come to an end with a very important question from Mr Arsenis and an excellent answer - which I hope will be fulfilled - on behalf of Mr Gerapetti. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been concluded here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only discussion and vote on the principle of Articles and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Stavros Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation" and the Greek State's Amendment Convention on the strengthening and upgrading of infrastructure in the field of health." The Conference of Presidents, at its meeting on 6 February 2020, decided unanimously to discuss the draft law at a single meeting on the principle and the articles. I therefore propose that the rapporteurs and the special speakers be given the floor for 15 minutes, as we said at the Conference and that there should be no record of speakers. As to this part...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u152	No, we disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u153	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u154	The unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents was the one on the grounds, Mr Papadopoulos, that the draft law of Friday was transposed as a second bill today, because colleagues in the region had been asked to be able to leave at noon on Friday. And we said that for this draft law - and I repeat unanimously it was the decision - it became that, as you heard it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u155	Okay, we disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u156	All right, you may disagree, but your representative at the Conference of Presidents voted 'yes'. You may have the right to disagree, but the plenary respects the decision which has come unanimously from the Conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u157	We were not informed as it should be, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u158	From there on, we start the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u159	This House cannot decide now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u160	When you get up to the Step... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Polakis, you don't have the floor. I do not give the floor to that. It's a fait accompli. When you go up to the Step, of course, you have the right to disagree on the 'yes' that your representative said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u161	This House cannot decide on that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u162	If you want this House to decide, I tell you that on the basis of the parliamentary declaration it is a given that it ratifys this decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u163	To make up your mind!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u164	Well, the House also agreed by a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u165	Put it on!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u166	Let the New Democracy Parliamentary Group be asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Papadopoulos, now you're also an old and very serious man.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u168	Because we're old.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u169	So you know that it is always done on the basis of the numerical parliamentary majority. Here, Mr. Lippi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is the ratification of part of a more comprehensive ambitious project launched at the initiative of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for the strengthening of the National Health System. The "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation has undertaken through the "Health Initiative" programme to strengthen health structures and education with donations of over 400 million euros. The specific choice of the institution to allocate a huge amount of money to upgrade public health comes at the right time. It is the years and many problems faced by the National Health System, especially after the end of a decade of difficult economic crisis with a lack of infrastructure and a hypotension. The New Democracy had already set the bar high, prioritising quality public health for all citizens. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the head of the Ministry of Health designs a public health system that fully meets the requirements of the era, a modern, effective and friendly environment for the provision of medical services. In this context, today's government's cooperation with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation was excellent from the outset in order to make best use of the total donation. For its part, the government has removed all bureaucratic obstacles so that the required procedures can be quickly completed and public health strengthened for the benefit of the citizens. The actions undertaken by the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation for Public Health were recorded at Law 4564/2018 and in its amendments and include the implementation of the following projects: First, the General Hospital of Komotini, second, the Hospital of Thessaloniki, third, the Hospital of Sparta, fourth, the funding of the equipment and educational and postgraduate programmes for the Department of Nursing of the University of Athens and the Center for the Training of Nursing Hospitals of the Hospital "Evangelism", fifth, the supply and installation of medical equipment in the "Evangelism", sixth, the supply of new equipment, as well as the maintenance of the existing aerospace facilities at the University of Athens, seventh, the procurement and installation of special medical equipment in selected public nursing establishments in the country, eighth, the financing of educational programmes relating to endo-nomic infections and the treatment of the disease, with critical health and morbidity. All these actions form a carefully planned upgrade of the National Health System. For the immediate launch of the 'Health Initiative' programme, the Government moved quickly and brought all the necessary contracts to be ratified in the Greek Parliament, including both today. The first contract included in today's bill is the 3-2-2020 Donation Convention - Project I, Annex V of Law 4564/2018, which concerns the establishment of the "Stavros Niarchos General Hospital". The Government has already fulfilled its obligations so far in relation to the necessary procedures to precede the procedures. The first question is the creation of the necessary road network in the hospital. In this respect, the preparation of studies, environmental licensing and approval by the competent authorities has been rapidly completed. The General Hospital of Komotini Foundation "Stavros Niarchos" will replace the "General Hospital of Komotini Sisminoglio" and provide services to adults and children, covering the needs of the entire region of eastern Macedonia and Thrace. It will also have an additional psychiatric nursing unit for adults and an artificial kidney unit. The "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation undertakes to process all the work, which includes the costs of preparing all the studies, the costs of building the facilities, the costs of forming the environment and the costs of purchasing and placing the medical, hotel and equipment to maintain all areas of excellent quality and modern technology. The overall project for the construction and equipment of the new hospital has a budget of 105 million euros. This is a major project that will occupy an area of 25,000 square metres. The hospital's building site will be about 500 meters from Ennaia Street and 7 km from the town of Komotini. In fact, the project is to be completed in fifty-three months after the ratification of the contract, i.e. it is calculated until June 2024. The most innovative element available to the new hospital is undoubtedly the complete digitisation of all systems. The hospital will use advanced information systems for all services, medical, nursing and administrative according to international standards according to HIMSS. The use of peak technology at all levels ensures that Komotini General Hospital provides excellent services to patients at lower cost. At the same time, the institution shall also undertake the training of staff in relation to the use of infrastructure and medical equipment. In this way, therefore, a very modern hospital will be created which will serve as a model in the Greek area. At least eighteen months before the completion of the project, the Greek State will set up the legal person governed by private law who will be responsible for the management of the new hospital based on the organization of the "General Hospital of Komotini Foundation of Stavros Niarchos" of eighty-one beds and multiple staff from today's "Sismanoglio". The choice of the legal form of the private legal person for the new hospital is a section in public health. Generally speaking, as well as on the basis of the completely recent research of the "DIANOSIS" Research and Analysis Agency, public hospitals present significant problems of unequal distribution of beds, clinics, workshops and staff, significant staff shortages and anachronistic and inefficient forms of administration. Those who have worked at the public hospital know firsthand how embarrassing and desperately slow the procedures are. A modern health system, as we all see it and as it is worthy of patients, should have quick mechanisms for meeting its needs. It should be possible to provide the necessary material immediately, it should adapt its equipment in the light of technological and medical developments. The legal form of the legal person governed by private law precisely ensures greater flexibility in the management of matters thanks to the administrative and financial self-sufficiency that the hospital will have. Of course, all this will always be under the supervision of the public and the necessary financial control by the Ministry of Health. In no case is this a private hospital, but it is the best form possible, in my opinion, of a public hospital. Indeed, workers are fully assured, since the staff who are already serving at the Komotini Hospital will be transferred to the new hospital with the same relationship of work, grade and industry and with great support. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Therefore, in the form of the legal person of private law, the new Komotini Hospital will have all the facilities to play a leading role in a new era starting for the National Health System, with the aim of upgrading all nursing institutions, equipped with all the necessary technological means to provide the best possible services to patients. The second contract, which includes today's bill, is an amendment from 3-6-2019 "Convention of Donation - Project VI between the Greek State and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation". The original contract provided for the supply and installation of medical equipment, PET/CT, a positron emitter at the hospitals of Heraklion, Ioannina, Larissa and Alexandroupolis, as well as the setting up of radiopharmaceutical facilities in the hospitals of Heraklion, Ioannina, Larissa and Thessaloniki ‘Papagorgios’. On the initiative of the Greek Government, the initial contract is amended in order to cancel the part relating to radiopharmaceutical production units. At the same time, the budget for this project is being adjusted, which will now be EUR 9 instead of EUR 17 million. In fact, at the time when the original contract was signed, the price of each dose of radiopharmaceutical was set at EUR 700 plus VAT. However, with the development of competition between companies active in the production of radiopharmaceuticals, the price of which has now been set at EUR 330. Also, the government has already launched a reduction in the VAT rate for radiopharmaceuticals to 6%, resulting in a further reduction in total costs. Therefore, on the basis of the last calculations, it is not in the Greek State’s interest to support the costs of production of radiopharmaceuticals automatically, as market prices now range at reasonable levels. It was therefore more useful for the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, with its assent, to go to other needs of the public health system. Both conventions that come today to be ratified, but in particular the contract on donation for the construction of the new Komotini Hospital, open up the way for modern health structures, help to make the commitment of the New Democracy and Prime Minister to human-centered public health in a commitment to the patient. Public health is now focusing on the provision of optimal medical services, but also on another factor that is not negligible, i.e. the enhancement of the patient's psychology. The General Hospital of Komotini Foundation "Stavros Niarchos" with buildings of high aesthetics will have a green surroundings consisting of about a thousand trees and will have as its main feature the light in all interior spaces. The Government is determined to make full use of any private initiative and, in fact, to give further incentives to institutions and individuals wishing to help the Greek State. In this context, the Government is directly going to amend this legislative framework on volunteering by providing tax incentives. At the same time, the VAT exemption for the sponsorships of the institutions was introduced yesterday to give an additional incentive for donations. Indeed, by promoting the maximum possible absorption of funds in the form of donations to the Greek State, a digital platform is to be set up so that the Ministries will make their needs known and, at the same time, institutions will record the grants they offer. Public health is the basic feature of a rule of law and we must protect it in the best possible way. Those who oppose the changes brought about by today's bill should bear in mind that we cannot always choose stagnation in fear of change. When something is long-standing, we must change it and, indeed, we must move on to structural changes to bring innovation to health. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, nineteen students and students and an educational attendant from the 10th Municipal School of Kallitheas. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The rapporteur of SYRIZA, Paul Paulakis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to denounce the procedure. Where and how far can Members not speak? Do you want to pass it'spray, wipe, finish', why are you not defending what you are doing? I don't understand why this thing happened. It is very serious what we are talking about today and some Members need to be placed. So let's do it now, actually. I said it in detail in committee, and I will say it again in good time today, because, unfortunately, it is confirmed, Minister, on the basis of your defence arguments, especially for cyclotrons, that what you have decided to do is give it all to individuals and we must not hurt a hair from the head of the hospital suppliers! There's a new one, Mr. Colleague in medicine. You'll hear them in a little while. I am referring very quickly to the conventions. This donation is historic. I have said so to the committee, and I will say it again quickly. It is historic because for the first time a public-private institution accepts a proposal from the Greek State in relation to its planning for the development of the public health system and accepts the Greek government's proposal for exactly what projects should do in the public sector that will act complementaryly and reinforce those that the Greek government has done in the previous years, the Greek Government, the SYRIZA Government. The first proposal of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation was to rebuild the "Evangelism" from underground to the 11th floor. We told him that there was no need to do this in "Evangelism", because there was the donation of the National Bank, the TPAs were made, there have been hotel upgrades in the hospital and there is a programme of equipment that we financed from public investment. We told him that what we need, if he wants to give so much money, is to help the Komotini Hospital, which is the oldest of the country, the Paediatric Hospital in Thessaloniki, which does not exist in Northern Greece, to renew the media of EKAB. We opened the two bases of aerospace in Syros, which was a request from the Cycladics for forty years, in Aktio and on the other hand, the means of flight already in operation had been purchased in PASOK and the three fell while the other three had no maintenance contracts! They've finished their hours and they're sitting! In fact, they also ordered two planes back then and after we got them, we found that they couldn't fit in the trucks. That's the kind of orders we made once and for all! That's how the money was eaten, so the country went bankrupt! So we told him if he could help out there. We were told 'yes'. We also told him about the educational programs, the "Trauma" and the training of surgeons and graduates of medicine, which we accepted with our commitment that, when the donation is over, it will continue with the funding of the Greek state. We told them, of course, that we need to get into a series of machines, which some of us put with the money we have and with the big economy that we did in the past few years. Already enters PET scan. This - to understand the world that listens to us - is a positron broadcaster who runs an examination that is very useful to patients with malignancy. It shows the existence of cancerous cells that are not seen either by CT or magnetic tomography, because they are less than two to three millimetres that are the discretion of the magnetic or axial tomograph. He can see it, so he can adjust the treatment, i.e. get more chemotherapy, get more radiation, check it out and see a relapse earlier, etc. And, indeed, it has changed the way we have been dealing with malignancies for the past 15 years. That's why a lot of doctors keep asking her. So we said that with money from the Attica Region we "PET scan" at Kifisia General Oncology Hospital "THE ANGERIAN", we activated the machine at the "Metaxas", we activated the machine at the hospital "Theatrical", we activated the machine at "Agia Sophia", we financed the replacement of the country's first and oldest "PET scan" in the "Announcement". So what was the problem? We wanted to be able to produce the radiopharmaceuticals used in this examination. Why did we want that? We wanted it because, unfortunately, since this story started in Greece, there has been a monopoly, the 'BIOKOSOS' in Lavrio, who had been blooded by the stoves - I say it this way - because he gave the dose of 800 and 900 euros initially, in the first few years, at the same time in adjacent European countries buying it, or the insurance agencies covered it with EUR 150 and 200! It was a huge victory for this man! In fact, despite the attempt we made to negotiate with them as soon as we took over, it went down to 700 euros and then it wouldn't talk! He says to you, "I am, I don't want to." He knew we couldn't help it. That is why we planned from our own revenues and with the help of the Attica Region to put in first two radiopharmaceuticals production machines, i.e. the engravings that put you from the vein to do this examination, in the General Oncology "ARIAN ANARGYRIES" and in the Metataxas hospital. And we said to the Stavros Niarchos Foundation: Can you put us in the framework of the donation of radio medals in the University Hospitals of Crete, Larissa, Ioannina and the Papageorgiou Hospital in Thessaloniki, which has PET, but also he was buying from outside? And they accepted it. What are you doing now? You're the one who starts sculpture the donation, you're sawing it. Firstly, you are working on donation in relation to the Hospital of Komotini, one of the oldest countries, which - as we said - we found the building, we did a huge job, we signed the Memorandum of Cooperation in March 2018 and the General Convention in September 2018. They also ran all of this with permissions, etc. The same happened in the Paediatrics in Thessaloniki. And what are you talking about? While it is a Legal Person of Public Law, you say you will convert it into a Legal Person of Private Law. This is the first time in the history of the Greek governments since postmopulation. You get a legal person under public law to do the legal person private law! And you're gonna tell me, what does he care about the world? He cares, and he's cut! Because it's not just whether he's gonna pay or not to pay. With the legal person of private law you have the flexibility to do this: First, bring back to hospitals the cleanliness, feeding and storage workers, as you are already trying to do. Secondly, you have the flexibility and adaptability to follow other procurement rules. Thirdly, you have the opportunity to move on to a different way of appointing or renewing staff, because for those who work today at the Komotini Hospital, you can say, "I keep them in personal positions of permanent civil servants, but the new recruits I do a certain period of time or an indefinite period in another way." It gives you the chance. It enables you not to follow the terms of the public accounting. It enables you not to control the actions of the Court of Auditors. That's what you do with the NSAs. What does that mean? That means that we will go bankrupt again in some years if you go on with it. That's what the N.W.D. means. We don't have any allergy, but we see your plan. So, in Larissa, why are you going to do the University RIS, as you say? Why, beyond what I'm saying? That's why. There's no one else. So that there is no control available and that you can play game with supplies, etc.. And I will say at the end, when I leave it for the 'climax of the evening'. Secondly, you do something else that is done for the first time in the history of the Greek public. Ever since he's insured the public hospitals? I didn't get it. You put it in Article 11. Why does he need security? Why do we have to pay some private insurance? What's the point? We must also secure the "Evangelism"! What do you think, guys? Where did you see it written? The Stavros Niarchos Foundation had told us that at that time, and we said: "If you want to secure it during construction, if anything happens, we have no objection. However, from there on, the Greek State takes over, if anything happens, to restore it." When the earthquakes, which was a problem again, were damaged by some hospitals and the "Attica" was built after etc., the Greek State took over to restore the damage. I don't understand why we have to pay an insurance policy. That's all about the Komotini. Now we're going to the other thing with the cyclotrons. Now you come here and tell him, 'We don't want you to give it to us' - what will that have to do? - while we had arranged, they'd accepted it, we'd passed it. And you say, "He doesn't want the Greek State..." - the donor - "... to give the four cyclotronies we had agreed", which would be added to the two that were already placed and which we had planned to enter elsewhere, towards Alexandroupolis, that is. What's that gonna do? The result will be this: First, do not continue lying. The deal was negotiated this year by us with "BIOKOSMO" from Lavrio, which produces the radiopharmaceuticals and another company that was interested this year. And because he knew, he saw that they entered the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, that the competition of the Region of Attica was awarded and already one of them entered, placed in the "Saint Olga", which is why he joined the negotiation and downloaded the price. And it is not 3.30 is 4,70 plus 24% VAT, which is again more than double what other countries give. Now, now, which is surely not going to go in, at a time when this contract will end that will be signed with the EEAS and that in some hospitals it gives it a little lower -4.50 etc. - because he now has a competitor from Bulgaria who is an importer, he will say 'I do not go' and the price will go up again. That's what's gonna happen. That's where things will go. Also, there is - I will present it - by the Hellenic Society of Nuclear Medicine, where he tells you that you must put it - and especially in Crete - because there is also a development of research activity through them, because they can produce other radiopharmaceuticals for these PETs, which can be used for research or for therapeutic purposes. They're new jobs. That was a development proposal. You talk about Brain Drain and here, in an innovative technology that invests - with the help of donations - the Greek State to develop both innovation and research and scientific activity, you say 'no, it covers us 'BIOOKOS', we are fine'! It's embarrassing what you're doing, really embarrassing! And it's not defendable, because it's both jobs and research and development and come brains from outside and jobs and everything. And yet, you say, "No, we want the other person to continue to live together." That's what you're doing. Now we're going to a fatter that's the same logic. These two reasons are also the ones that lead us to vote against the ratification of the convention. It's not because we don't want to be the Komotini Hospital. We proposed it and accepted it. There is the other one with the Hospital of Sparta, where when the initial donation provided for some things to be done in the "Evangelism", there they were fought - I said them in detail in committee - and we said: "Of course, since you do not want it, it is not done. You direct this money to complete the Sparta Hospital, which is the second oldest of the country." And they accepted it. We want these hospitals to be made and we have taken advantage of every opportunity we have had to raise the public health system. However, we cannot accept that you will put the Niarchus donation in front of launching the project of NCIs and public-private partnerships, that is to say, the transfer of pieces within the public sector to private individuals. I know that you have been given the appetite from the money that EEAY has given you for the last three years in hospitals, which is 600 million warm money. And these are two or three large groups of diagnostics that want to get in to get management. We've put a shut-up on machines. All the time ribbons you'll cut off of them. We have implemented a programme of 220 million. Thirty-three have already settled. For the other eighty, you'll cut ribbons. Invite us and when! Don't be shy! In this picture, therefore, donations also took place. Here's a word that proves what I'm saying. Why, Mr. Kontozamani, with whose mandate and interest did you cancel the tender for the supply of oxygen plants to the five Piraeus hospitals? Why? Who are you benefiting? A competition of 2,5m euros in the Attica RCF involving Nice, "Juneo", "Metataxas", "Vula Scripture", "Attica", five large hospitals, with high oxygen consumption. The companies who lost their jobs - where they too had been drinking the blood with the stove - in the previous years - because when we started putting oxygen generators - the hospitals have been producing themselves - the price on the islands from 1,10-1,5 euros a litre to 0,30 to 0,40 and in urban centres from 0,87 has fallen to 0,30. We just started putting the generators on. And they entered Kalamata and Mytilini and Lero and many hospitals, and in Chania, we put oxygen generators in many hospitals. And here was a very big job. They appeal to the 'SOL' and 'LINDE'. And he has a negative decision from the Prosecutors' Review Authority, a negative decision from the Prosecutor's Court and the Appeals Court, three judicial decisions that say that he is well doing the public's work, because he will be saved, because where he was 1 euro, the cost would fall to 0,15. From 0.87 to 0,15.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u173	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u174	I'm done. Mr President, we will have no speakers. Let's talk about it at least. This one's a decision memorial! And it's exactly the same logic that, if you don't give me the 2 euro bottle, you can't give me those guys to blackmail us with the islands, that I won't send you if you don't give me the 2 euro bottle a litre. I'm talking about Lero and the rest of the islands that we've taken over the past three years with all of them! So not to produce the public but to fall into their punctures! So this decision is a monument, because it has three pages in mind - it is terrible! -, which in the "experts" are court decisions that say the public does well and declares the contest and complete it and award it. And it decides to cancel the competition above the limits for the approval of gas production plants and is signed by the Commander of the 2nd Ministry of Defence, Mr. Roylos, who two months ago had an event and said what's nice that program and to implement it! This contest was awarded to Flevaris, after receiving all the approvals from Olga, Jordan, the Commander of the 2nd Ministry, in Piraeus. And he had an event two months ago. What's going on? Any phones down from above? Is that the function of the state of staff? What is that exactly? Why do you put him on and sign that he's canceling the contest is responsible, and he's responsible, and why is everything personified, not just the orders above, are who you're putting his tick, for infidelity in public, right? Because that's how we're going to spend more money again, the price will go back from 0.30 to 1 euro. And there's a lot of millions of pounds of oxygen they need every year in hospitals. Did any phone calls from the final state of Maximos's government fall and said that in any case with SOL or Linde we cannot and should continue to sell? That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u175	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u176	All right, I'll finish, Mr. President. We don't have any speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u177	This isn't about it. I'm generally saying it for everyone, not for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u178	In short, we are voting against ratification of the conventions and I tell you clearly. All that you're trying to get sawing, sacking, canceling, when we're going to be government again, we're going to change it. It is not going to end the Komotini Hospital on your day, it will be over and remains a legal person governed by public law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u179	In twenty years!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u180	Let go, Mr. Pleari. We are not going to let cyclotronies go into hospitals and pay keratist 700 euros, we are not going to let - and especially this is going to be a long story - not to get the oxygen plant systems into the hospitals. What you are going to do will bring it back to normality, which is in the interests and the fairness of the Greek people and not the five to ten thousand of your "friends" with which you are preparing to regain 38 billion and go bankrupt the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u181	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor, who has asked for the floor on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u182	I have asked for the floor on the Rules of Procedure, because I was in the Greek Ukrainian friendship group meeting with the Ambassador's participation, and I was not at the beginning of the procedure. I was informed, therefore, that you announced that only the rapporteurs and the Minister will speak, and I asked for the floor on the Rules of Procedure, firstly, because this is not an international convention to apply this procedure, secondly, because the Conference of Presidents has no power under any Rule to say a joint bill such as this - it is a joint bill - how it will be discussed, thirdly, because we wish there not many speakers or not to be at all, if the parties agree, but under no circumstances did we say that Parliamentary representatives and the Minister are not speaking. Is it possible to discuss this bill without even having a debate in Parliament? There was no consultation in the committee, there was no consultation with the social partners, we did not invite scientists to express their opinion, because the issue got out of the question of donation and a whole concept of legislation is coming. It's a government perception, of course. To be normally discussed, to make our criticisms, to make our counter-proposals. We may convince you or convince us, but by filthyness, no. We won't accept this suffocation. That is why at least the parliamentary representatives, Mr President, will speak. They can't talk, or we'll do it differently.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u183	First of all, when I came to the Bureau, what you said and I think the parties were also informed. But you are right that the sovereign body is plenary on these matters, that is not the principle of declared here. It will therefore be decided by the House. I have no objections to the fact that the parliamentary representatives should also speak, but in view of the speed, if we can and will all agree, that we should shorten the time to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u185	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u186	After Mr Kegeroglou's intervention and after what you said now, which goes into total contrast with what Mr Kaklamanis said before, because I said...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u187	Mr Kaklamanis took the decision of the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u188	That's not all he carried.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u189	That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u190	No, I didn't say the same Greek I know. Mr Kaklamanis when I insisted that Parliamentary representatives and speakers should also speak, he said to me: 'Don't do this, Mr Polakis. There is the principle of declared and on the basis of the declared you do not speak." If it is a matter which does not go into the matter of declared, we are asking for a vote now to be decided to speak. We're making the request.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u191	Let's finish with the rapporteurs and the speakers, and then they'll be given...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u192	Counsel, but we'll vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u193	We don't have to agree. Parliamentary representatives will also speak. Just for the time economy and in view of the fact that it has been done, we will shorten the time. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Aren't you satisfied? Let the conversation stop now. It's gonna be all right. The Rules of Procedure shall apply. The reason is now the special speaker of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the construction and creation of a new state-of-the-art public hospital, open and accessible to all the citizens of Komotini, which comes as a donation of EUR 105 million, would normally be a good cause for celebrating every corner of Rhodope. And that's why Rhodope really needs a new hospital. Instead of this, in Komotini, workers at the hospital "Sisminoglio", doctors and nurses go down the street, unfortunately not to celebrate, but to protest about the "black" privatization of public health that leaves the bill under discussion. But let's start over. So today we have a draft law by the Ministry of Health, which consists of two conventions. In particular, the first contract concerns the design, construction and equipment of the new General Hospital of Komotini under the name ‘Central Hospital of Komotinis – Stavros Niarchos Foundation’, while the second contract is an amendment of a contract that was only validated in November 2019 by Law4638 regarding the supply, installation of special medical equipment PET/CT, positron emission memo, as well as the creation of radiopharmaceutical plants within five public hospitals, donations and that of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. So, starting with the first contract, I want to make it clear that the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, the Health Initiative, with the building of the new Komotini Hospital, has a positive sign first. After all, no one can object to this. Because the building of a new state-of-the-art, model hospital, apart from providing high health services to the inhabitants of the wider region, is undoubtedly and developmental for local society. It is well known that today a new doctor, a new scientist, chooses to work either abroad or in another large urban centre and not in the extreme Komotini. However, with an innovative hospital of the latest technology, medical equipment and diagnostic and engineering advanced technology, in an idyllic natural landscape and designed with the philosophy of an ideal space of cure and recovery, the data are, of course, changing. The donation of the Foundation briefly includes the cost of preparing the study, the cost of building the facilities, the costs of forming the environment, the costs of purchasing and installing fixed and mobile medical and hotel equipment, while, according to the contract with the Greek State, it undertakes to cover the costs for the timely implementation of road access, the maintenance of the new hospital, the restoration of any infrastructure, staff. And here, then, problems begin or more properly, this is where your attachment to neoliberal ideas begins and what are you telling us? You tell us that the Greek State takes over within eighteen months before the project is planned to appoint a legal person under private law who will take over the operation and management of the hospital from his delivery and forever. And the question is as follows. Do you need a new structure? Why is a new legal person separate from the Komotini Hospital? Why is this obligation not the Health Assurance Agency, the PPPY, which you made in the previous contract with Law 4655/2020? Why a legal person governed by private law and not a person governed by public law? Who is this change imposed by and who serves? What comes to cover a new private legal person specifically for the Komotini Hospital? Do you think the Greek State is unable to manage a modern hospital adequately? And then, of course, we come to the staff. How will the staff of this legal person be recruited, with what kind of contracts, what working conditions and wages? The staff who will be transferred from the hospital "Sisminoglio" and who are currently working in a legal person governed by public law what contracts will it have? You tried to answer these questions, but you did not really reassure anyone, instead the workers show it today. They're mobilizing. You spoke of a new model of operation and administration, and at the same time you intermittent on the ground how you intend to privatise other public hospitals, starting from the new hospital of Komotini. You spoke about recruitment through the APA, but you also spoke about a specific, as you said, a staff assessment committee. You said the legal person under private law would ensure flexibility and better functioning. And you have argued on this unacceptable option that there will now be a Director-General who will take the post through an evaluation process and will not be appointed by the political leadership in question. So, what are you telling us? You tell us that it is the public health nature of which prevented you from following this process and the choice of hospital administrations, which you, too, did on the basis of strict party criteria, rather than on the basis of some assessment. And the facts are recent. And to point out to you that the public can clearly secure transparent and plausible procedures. It's just a matter of political will. It's a political choice. We, our party has repeatedly proved it. I will only give you one example: the ASA. So you open the door to private individuals, not because the public can't, but because you don't want to be public. And this is where you'll find us across the street. We will not allow you to circumvent the public health character, especially in a country that comes out of a ten-year crisis that led to 35% being spent on private health expenditure, while the average of the OECD countries is only 21%. In the minds of the Komotini residents, but also for us in the Change Movement, the new hospital would come to contribute to the treatment of wounds that opened up the Memorandum years in the National Health System. Unfortunately, however, in your mind the new hospital is a vehicle that will lead to the privatisation of health and the absolute depreciation of the ERC. Secondly, I should like to raise the question of the implementation of the project. According to what we read in the contract, the timetables are clear and quite tight. Are the funds planned by the Greek State in order to comply with the agreed timetable? There is no provision in the General Accounting Report for the costs incurred by the Greek State. We will cancel the agreement without knowing how much money the public is ultimately required to carry out the project. And of course, we must be sure that the timetables will be respected, as any delay costs even the cancellation of the project. I will now enter the second convention of the draft law. It is a ratification amendment, as I said at the outset, made by your own government. I really don't understand what changed in three months, so you decided that we don't need to create radiopharmaceutical plants. The original contract was EUR 17 million and the corrected one you have now brought is almost half, EUR 9 million. You give no substantial response to why we do not need to set up radiopharmaceutical plants. I also asked you in committee, but your answers really did not satisfy us. You know, without any real and complete justification, everyone, even the most reliable, in the face of the government's intentions, can think that for some reason you do not want to spoil the soup of certain companies that supply Greek hospitals with these radio drugs. And to be precise, a company. They're not many. One is the company. You told us that now the cost of radiopharmaceuticals has fallen and there is no reason to make these new units which will actually be charged with the public, which will have to bear the costs of the staff to carry them out. But what ensures that the price of the medicine does not come up again after the vote on this bill? Nothing. In addition, it is a bad excuse to tell us that the problem is the cost of hiring young workers. There can be no money for all these companies that you make in it and in the previous contracts, but not for radiopharmaceuticals units to be provided. And if the problem is the lack of staff with appropriate skills to serve these units, we could reopen the debate on Brain Drain. So I'm asking you again. Do we have the luxury of losing such a big donation? I really don't believe it. To complement here that as a result of the amendment of the contract, the Papageorgiou Hospital is completely excluded from the contract, as well as it was compatible with the part of the donation concerning the creation of radiopharmaceutical units. Ladies and gentlemen, by closing such donations, particularly in the difficult economic times we are dictating, they are very important. Nevertheless, any unselfish private donation must give the right signal to society. And that means that it is not allowed to give rise to suspicions of a return to our bad past, because it will be a serious regression, despite what has been going on in the past decade, to go back to the era of mistrust, the fragmentation of money, the blurred and the scoring of money with no similar benefit. Of course, we will in no way allow the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation to become a well-known window for the privatization of health. Komotini really needs a new public hospital, accessible to everyone, and no one can deprive her of it. We want a modern public hospital in Komotini, and that's not what we're negotiating. We say 'yes' to the acceptance of donation, but 'no' to the methods of the Ministry of Health that will lead individuals to health from the back door. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Lambroulis, now has the floor. Come on, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Public health services, their development and their absolutely universal exploitation by the people, in our view, cannot depend on charity, volunteering and individual supply. Such measures must be the sole responsibility of the State, must be fully financed by the State budget, must ensure that full and full-time permanent staff are employed, that adequate and modern medical equipment is provided and, of course, that they are part of the universally developed public health system so that all preventive diagnostic and therapeutic actions can be provided in a timely manner to those in need, without conditions and conditions. We therefore believe that the State must fully ensure these structures and services in the health sector, but only in addition and in addition to exploiting any offers. And in the face of the arguments - which were heard in the past, but also now in the light of the debate on this bill and obviously, in the future, the argument that the State has no money, there was a crisis, there is a crisis and much more that is being heard, the reality is that in the period of increased growth rates - the state and capital with all its governments were underfinanced by the public health system, they did not develop the necessary infrastructure, they took measures to cut public benefits, patients are paying much more, and all that is now accelerated, they are multiplying, precisely because the growth, by steaming the business groups, is in complete contrast to the popular social needs. This is why the state never has money for the needs of the people, nor in the phase of capitalist development, nor in the phase of the capitalist economic crisis, because it is a political choice to support all kinds of businessmen: tax exemptions, tax reliefs, warm money and so forth, to ensure precisely this goal they have, their high profitability. And precisely because of this political choice, all governments to date, it is due to the fact that decades, for example, Thessaloniki is now without a pediatric hospital or Komotini or that East Attica does not have a hospital, despite some health centers that are also understaffed, and with enormous shortcomings they are trying to meet the enormous needs of the whole region, or as well as other health centres and, more importantly, business, over the last few years. We have the strengthening of the business and freight activities of public units. But what will be made - as in the bill - in Komotini, in Thessaloniki, perhaps - will be operating in this very regime, in this very direction of business, by supplying the health services they will provide. In fact, here again, a step is being taken, the legal entity is being given as enterprises, i.e. private legal persons, in relation to the Komotini Hospital, but also to existing hospitals such as the University in Larissa, Attica and others, and to the promotion of public-private partnerships in them and not just in them, but in all hospitals, which is obviously a process and will be generalised. What's the target? The intensity and escalation of the policy that supports the private health sector, clearly, its greater penetration into the public system and its more intensified operation with private economic criteria, i.e. as enterprises in the logic of cost-benefit. And you see coincidence: At the same time as the government is going on to transform hospitals into private-law legal persons or to create young people under the legal regime as private-law persons, i.e. the Paediatric in Komotini, the investigation comes, the conclusions - if you like - the proposals of the 'DINEOS', the Institute of Studies - you know very well that it is in the interests of BSE - to confirm the reformist, as it says, 'Big Bang', the major explosion, the restructures, the public health sector required, first and foremost and fundamentally, to private-law legal persons, as well as the promotion of public-private partnerships, PPPs, in various areas of RIS hospitals. Really, Minister, will we have mergers and changes in hospital use? Are we going to have an adjustment to the costs insured on the basis of income criteria? Are there going to be a differentiation of pay, especially for doctors, on the basis of economic and clinical efficiency? Will private doctors be able to contribute with full or partial work for emergency or seasonal needs? Will we have the establishment of mobility within the ERC, will the necessary staff be made available according to the needs of each area and unit, in order, in fact, to shut holes, with the huge subsistence problems in hospitals? Will there really be PPP contracts, between hospitals and private clinics, service, management or rental contracts, in order to develop so-called healthy competition, that is to say, the profitability of the businessmen who anticipate their penetration into public hospitals? Indeed, in this context that is being created and promoted, full and exclusive employment will apply only to directors - co-ordinators who have - and to the possibility of providing for paid private work in hospitals, while for other doctors it will enable full, but not exclusive work - to be employed in two or more hospitals, on the basis of which individual contracts of employment conclude? In other words, they're going to be doctors from a hospital to fill in a decent income. Or will a part of the rest of the staff be part-time or even seasonal? Because, for example, for Komotini - you may have said to the committee, it was heard from previous rapporteurs from this Step - that the corresponding staff who now serves in the new hospital will be transferred to the new hospital by maintaining the employment relationships, the wage rights they have and the others. But what about more than a hundred - if I remember the number - new, necessary jobs at the Komotini Hospital, what employment relationships will be? Will it be full-time and full-time, yes or no? So we are still asking this and we are asking again, all of this, among the other findings of this 'DIANEOSS' survey, which is both challenging and cynical - and that is what we would like to stress - that the institution of full and exclusive employment is the reason - listen to what hospital staff have led to extermination. So, permanent and stable work harms the health of workers in hospitals, do you accept that? We'll hear you. The additional staff, which will serve as we said at the Komotini Hospital, in addition to the staff we have said will be transferred, just tell us whether they will be in what employment relationship? Some time, contracts, what? In the same way, for example, the Komotini Hospital, we put it in the committee, we put it in the discussions in the previous committees on hospitals and in the general convention, if you put the whole issue in the first Convention. Will the hospital, for example, be fully and adequately financed by the state budget? And here we are asking again, what will happen if it is unbelievable on the basis of the experience that exists so far, which, for whatever reason, does not finance or serve adequately, the hospital or - if you like - the other hospitals? Can this under the contract - because it is mentioned - be an opportunity to return money and so on, or if the public does not have that possibility, then a solution can be found to the hospital's concession to private individuals if it is made or can be made profitable? Yes or no? Why can all the parties at the same time - and now see in the committee and in the committees which we have discussed all these amendments and also in the original convention - jointly express the great thanks for the Foundation's contribution, but the objective - in our opinion, all - is one, common one, as is the strategy of all the parties, whether they have government or not. A deeper aim is, therefore, the deeper ideological impact on workers, and indeed in many ways. Firstly, to grow on the ground in fact the serious problems of people's families, what? The human face of the system, this barbaric farm system. Secondly, to reconcile the workers with the idea that, as far as the profitability of entrepreneurs goes, they can also spare no crumbs from the unscrupulous profits of the benefactors, which result from the wild exploitation of the workers, and of course also from the exploitation of the wealth of our country, like other countries. And thirdly, that workers become addicted to the concept of social services and benefits, not as a right, but as a charity. So all of this is the continuation, but also the next of a policy implemented over time by all urban parties, governments, but with a compass of the directions of the European Union, which increasingly turn health into an individual case, into an expensive commodity for the few, squeeze the minimum level of free state benefits for all and increasing payments at the moment of need. We say that a response to this policy from the point of view of the people's interests can only give a common fight for health and patients for funding, staffing public health and welfare structures, at the level of real needs, for exclusively public and free health and welfare for all, by abolishing business activity, permanent and stable work for all. And this struggle will strengthen as much as it looks forward, namely, to overthrowing the miserable system that wants health for the profits of capital, which prevents the modern needs of workers and the people. So, as we said in committee, Mr President, we will vote against the bill, while in the respective debates or legislation concerning this overall donation, with the individual amendments that were made, we voted 'at present', now we will vote against it, with the sole criterion that it turns the Komotini Hospital - possibly Thessaloniki - into a legal person governed by private law. This is the basic criterion, which leads us to vote against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Municipal School of New Psych. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The special speaker from the Greek Solution, Maria Athanasiou, is now called in Stepma. Here, Mrs. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the public needs such donations leads us to a single conclusion: that the public is not doing its job well and that the state is therefore weak. The state, ladies and gentlemen, is the great and chronic patient. Under the first article of this draft law and the first article of the Convention, the State accepts the offer of design, construction and equipment of the new Komotini Hospital. However, a number of parallel actions and projects are based on the state itself to implement them in order to make donation and deliverable and operational. I am referring to - and I am referring to it - to the committee responsible which met the day before - that it had undertaken, in accordance with Article 1 of the Law and Article 2 of the Convention, the construction at a certain time of the necessary infrastructure to create access by the General Hospital of Komotini to the road network and the links with the public utility networks. Why should the Greek State enter this process, in such a short time frame, while the Komotini Hospital already exists? With contests, with contractors, with appeals and overpriceds, with the Greek public and friends who have to do, make sure, gentlemen of the government, that they do not cost the Greek people a road and a supply of electricity and water more than the hospital itself. However, what really gives rise to questions and questions is the bindingity resulting from Article 2, namely paragraph 2.6.3 of the Convention and the creation of a legal person governed by private law for the management and administration of the new hospital. It is therefore attempting to introduce the private operator and to exempt from public controls. There is already a government's confessed intention to partnership the public with the private sector in the field of health, as well as to invoke the intention of flexibility in the functioning and decision-making through the creation of legal persons under private law. Let us not forget that just a few months ago the government made the EACH a legal person governed by private law and by the PPPY. But here we are dealing with a new public hospital and we are asking, gentlemen of the government, and we wonder: What changes do it bring to labour relations, supplies, more control over the general control of the creation of a legal person of private law? How will the staff be hired? How will works and orders be given? What accounting system will be followed and who will monitor the activities of the administration and what sanctions? Are we going to be peculiar - not to say deformed - transfers and secondments of civil servants? Are we going to be recruited individually or even collectively through companies? Are we going to have pay scales of different speeds, too? You have not made this clear, ladies and gentlemen, and we are looking into what our eyes will see and what our ears will hear in the coming years. And since we are talking about the advent of private individuals in public health, and I hope that it is not a mistake, we ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Partnership, who are only voting 'yes': What is that with the refusal of the donation of radiopharmaceutical laboratories, which, from EUR 17 million, the original budget of the project, after the amendment of the contract, is reduced to EUR 9 million. How is it possible at your request, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you do not want to create structures for the production of radiopharmaceuticals in the public sector and in hospitals, which leads to safe production, but also to an additional reduction in their cost of supply and the creation of jobs? The sanction was made by your own government, what changed in so few months? But beyond that, it also produces another fact and creates another new and powerful reality. Who's that? Not being able to monopolize the needs of the Greek people. In other words, we cannot blackmail the Greek people and the respective government. Public-private partnerships, ladies and gentlemen, are good and must exist as an alternative and auxiliary way of meeting needs, not as a main road and the first option. Individuals at all stages of health provision should help and strengthen public provision, not ultimately define and control it. Nevertheless, we call on the Government, even though incomprehensible, to refuse money for specific donations such as that of radiopharmaceutical laboratories, in any case to call for at least the free construction of structures, less commercial and profitable, but of course, which will be qualitative and ensure the rehabilitation of patients with motor problems and the care and care of sufferers, such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and other degenerative diseases. Also, designing hosting and caring centres of autistic and mental patients who devoured the patient's mental and psychology, caregivers and their families. It consumes, after all, Greek health, economy and development. In Article 11 another originality of the public. He undertakes to insure the entire hospital during its operation. Why? Good for building, but why for the period of operation? If there is a risk, who will be the beneficiary of the compensation? Finally, I would like to say this. There have been donors and great benefactors in this country. The government must honour the donation and the spirit of supply to the Greek people and not deceive the existing facilities in Komotini after the establishment of the new hospital, by turning them into a hosting structure for migrants. Without prejudice, however, to how this will work in the future, among the contributors of stateism, private initiative, self-interest, we gentlemen, as a Greek Solution, tell you that we are not negative to donation, but we are in all its negative effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Madam President, for keeping time. Mrs. Apatzides Maria is called in Step 25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill is an up-to-date ratification of a donation contract between the public benefits Foundation "Stavros Niarchos" and the Greek State, in order to strengthen and upgrade health infrastructure. The bill actually confirms and renews an existing agreement. As MERA25, we will vote'representations' in the first place. We will vote'residents' because it is, in principle, positive that some resources are provided as a donation to upgrade and strengthen the health sector. That is why we will not vote no. On the other hand, it is extremely negative that the government resorts to the logic of outsourcing, i.e. outsourcing, in an area such as health, which is the state's most constitutional obligation. Outsourcing is a dangerous logic we should not get used to. It's a logic that we've already seen with SYRIZA. Sometimes the contract with the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation arose for the first time in the days of SYRIZA government. The actions undertaken by the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation are first provided for in Law 4564/2018, which was passed on the days of SYRIZA, while we had an amending contract on 5-11-2019 on the present Government, which was cancelled by Law 4638/2019. This shows a basic follow-up between the two parties that are perpetuating a basically Memorandum of Understanding with the private sector. However, this logic is fully inspired by the present Government, since the basic principle is that of support for the private sector and public and private partnerships, even in the area of health, which concerns even in inappropriate goods. We need to recall here Article 21 of the Constitution, which stipulates that the State ensures that citizens' health and takes specific measures to protect the youth, old age, disability and the care of the most deprived. This principle is to be forgotten by applying the Memorandum of Understanding policies which have led to a lowering of the state and, of course, to the present government, which aspires to impose neoliberal policies as a new normality. This means that the health of citizens is no longer a public asset that takes care of the tensions of the Constitution itself, it is a matter of the kindness of individuals, of private charity. As a PARTA25, we believe that the state needing private sector donations is in no way normal. That is why we cannot vote yes, although we recognise that the needs covered by this update of the Convention are real. For example, the design, construction and equipment of the new General Hospital of Komotini is indeed a need for the important region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. As necessary, the design, construction and equipment of the new General Hospital of Sparta and the Hospital of Children of Thessaloniki, with the construction of a parking and helical area in a nearby property, in order to serve the needs of the hospital. Likewise, we do not question the need for medical equipment and educational programs for the Department of Nursing of the School of Health Sciences of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, as well as educational programs for intranasal infections and the management of the trauma. The same applies to the equipment for the General Hospital of Evangelism, while we are particularly standing on the equipment for the Aerospaces of EKAV that perform an absolutely essential project in a country with the characteristics of Greece. And of course it is important to provide and install special medical equipment, such as Positron Emission Tomography and the creation of radiopharmaceutical Plants. Positron Emission Tomography technology serves to assess a wide range of conditions, such as various malignancies. We need methods of functional brain imaging that have become important internationally for the timely differential diagnosis, but also for the prediction of degenerative dementia. Finally, we welcome the installation of equipment and modern integrated IT models, in accordance with internationally applicable standards. However, the fact that the Greek state has come into a situation that the private sector needs for all of this is also something that is not self-evident and is not something neutral or inevitable. It is not a natural disaster, it is the result of specific policies, both those pursued before the crisis and caused it, and of the memorial policies that were in the wrong antidotes to the crisis and which made it worse. Today, in the context of the same enhanced surveillance policies that will last for many decades longer, the public gives individuals and its most basic responsibilities, such as health. That is something we cannot please. We cannot accept it and cannot vote for it. With regard to finding resources, Mera25 has made specific proposals for exiting the debt-poor and the memorandum policies to which it relates. We are, however, proposing, in particular, a special 2% tax on the turnover of private hospitals and clinics. We believe that this is a measure which is in the right and fair direction, in complete contrast to the logic of the present government. We also propose new taxes on sugar and processed meat products and dairy products. The resources from these taxes can be directed to the multi-faceted health area and, of course, the most important thing is to ensure that expenditure on medicines, tests and interventions is properly monitored so as to avoid abuse with very negative results. In particular, we consider the growth of intensive care units to be particularly urgent, but also the reopening of those who have stopped from a lack of doctors, nurses and machinery. However, we also need to remind ourselves in this case that Mera25 proposes an overall strategy for exiting the Memorandum policies, which is the failure of the state to fulfil its constitutional obligations. This overall strategy includes, among other things, the restructuring of public debt, the possible primary surpluses, a public company restructuring private debt - it also relates to red loans, and all of this, in our proposal, I mean - overfinancing to a development bank. Deep down, if a radical new start is dared, we will be able to have a state that can re-establish its constitutional obligations and do not have any insufficiency phenomena, as we see in this bill. We are voting 'at present', thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u201	As we have said, we should now give the floor to the Members of Parliament and I hope that the time, which we have said, will be limited. We'll start backwards, SYRIZA's parliamentary representative Mr. Xanthos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, it is the many times that we have been discussing in sections the ratification of this very important and emblematic donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation in the field of health. Cumulatives are over 400,000,000 euros. It has come at a time of real budgetary difficulty for our country and for the health system. It was therefore necessary and desirable, and most importantly importantly, it was an intervention that respected the political priorities of the Greek state, which set the hierarchy, assessed the needs and came the Stavros Niarchos Foundation to provide simple funding for this strengthening and improvement intervention in the public health system. I should also like to say here that we had a sense of this intervention, of alleviating geographical inequalities that existed in the health system, and that is exactly why we did not accept, as Paul said earlier, our rapporteur, focusing all the free of charge on a large hospital. There were very important geographical disparities, there was a decline in the public structures of the province, needs that had never been met by the Greek state, such as having a paediatric hospital in northern Greece or a modern hospital in a sensitive space, such as Thrace and Komotini. So we have an important intervention that has so far ensured social but also political consensus. Be careful now, this bill for the first time is not confirmed. My dear Minister, you have done so. This bill does not guarantee the necessary political consensus and wide-ranging political consensus. I think this is also insulting the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. And why can't that be? Because for reasons of ideality, as we have said before, you are working on free and you are trying with it as a vehicle, as a state-sponsored corporation to pass a new model of administration into the health system. You say this clearly and unequivocally. So you say that the new institutional framework, the new legal status for the Komotini Hospital will be the model for the future development of health benefits in Greece. We cannot agree on that, and we have said so from the outset. You've been overrun. So far with a reasonable consensus and goodwill, and the previous time we objected to some aspects of ratification, but we voted on it. Now we've said we can't do it. We see that other political forces are differentiated. So there's a situation in your handling. That is quite clear. That is to say, the government is currently politically isolated and does not ensure the way in which it puts the rules in place which are required in these cases, that is to say, a wide-ranging support. This cooperation with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation is, as we have said before, a new model of public-private partnership. It is a shared PPP this rather than speculative PPP, which is your dominant line at this time. So you tell us that the public system, the state can no longer manage the high technology nor the upgrading of its infrastructure and equipment, and we need this know-how and this possibility to give it to private individuals, who will also take over the management and set the conditions. This is a total reinstatement in the pre-US period. Rebuild the public health system that we knew after the founding law 1397, the historic founding law of the PASOK of the first years of the 1980s, the great intersection in the social state of postmulsion. This development is really unacceptable and will be against it not only the progressive political forces of the country, not only the workers of the public health system, but also, know that it will be against it, because the patients and local communities, because people know that the public health system is the last resort, it is a mechanism to alleviate inequalities, it is a mechanism that ensures universal and equal access to health care for all people. So I think this is a crucial issue. His sperm exists in this bill. It's legislation for the first time. That is why there is this vertical and unequivocal response. Of course, it is true that the Komotini Hospital must be advanced, completed at the planned times, staffed with the necessary medical and nursing staff under the terms of the RIS and the public, that is to say, the way in which doctors' choices are made, with the choice of the other staff and not through blurred shapes, where neither transparency nor integrity will be guaranteed. These are very critical issues for us. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President. I therefore believe that it is absolutely justified to vote against this convention that you are bringing us, which obviously does not mean voting against the donation, obviously does not mean voting against the individual elements and initial agreements that we have ratified. We are voting against a specific practicing logic that, in our view, contributes to this pre-changing change in public care, which you have been launching for some time now. You are now talking about public-private partnerships and changing legal status to other hospitals. Use the Komotini Hospital to make first intervention. I'm done saying that. We, ladies and gentlemen, will make strict criticism whenever we really consider that the public interest, the right of citizens to high-level services, public care, etc. is at stake. At the same time, we will show the necessary responsibility and will not plunder critical public health issues. We are not going to do what the Acoustic Opposition has done regularly in the past period, sum up every day dead from the flu or - we are all absent - cases from the new coronary in order to come here and incite the government's political leadership that they have broken up the country, that they are incubating health threats, etc. That is why we have asked, and I am pleased that the Minister has accepted it, for institutional information to be provided at a very close level in the first place. Today there is a meeting of health ministers in Brussels, where the Minister takes part. Bring us the new information, the new data, the reality of other countries, what are the standards to be observed, the political forces and their representatives, possibly their experts, to be able to reach an agreement on these crucial issues. Criticist and confrontational policy, where, in our view, the future of the public health system is at stake, but seriousness and responsibility for the rest. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its reports to the Bills of the Ministry of Civil Protection: a). ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Georgia on Cooperation in the fight against crime’ and (b). ‘Preparation of a Protocol between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the implementation of the Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation’. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr. Zoe Raptis is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, as detailed analysis by our rapporteur, this first convention concerns "Work I" concerning the establishment of the General Hospital of Komotini. The institution in this case, I will say again, is fully responsible for the design, construction and equipment of the new hospital. This hospital will meet the needs of adults and children of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. It will also have a psychiatric unit and an artificial kidney unit. It will have a budget of 105,000 euros. The training costs of all studies will be borne by the institution. It will be of excellent quality and modern technology all the machines at its disposal. It will be a modern hospital with modern management models, with management models that we have unfortunately not seen until now, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, at least in the National Health System and will be a diamond. He will decorate his model of administration, but also his model of computerization the needs of the National Health System. He'll have a new operating rule. The number of staff has already been studied by category and industry in order to meet all needs. Today we all know that it employs three hundred eighty-eight workers and we will have an increase of a hundred and seventy-four employees, so that we will have a substantial 65% increase in staff. One of these basic features, as I have said before, will be the extensive use of these computer systems in a modern digital environment that will ensure that we have modern medical, nursing and administrative services and will ensure the financial provision of services to patients, in addition to the quality of this provision. Finally, I would like to say that the training of staff will be carried out at the institution's expense. However, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, we regret to note that neither on this issue, which you have actually started and moved on in consultation with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation in order to create these structures, can you distance yourself from your ideas. In fact, Mr Paulakis in committee quickly described this as an ideal design of neoliberal and market mutation of the ESS. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the demonisation of the private sector is the only area in which you have excelled on its own governance and unfortunately continue to do so unsuccessfully, because the legal form that this hospital will have will be the legal form of the legal person of private law. After all, the legal form and operation of the Papageorgiou hospital in Thessaloniki, which has been created since 1999 in a series of laws. And if you listen to our colleagues here in Parliament, MPs, you will be told that they are a jewel for the area, one of the best hospitals in the Balkans and when the newspapers come, those who are sick rush to the newspaper of "Papageor" rather than the other hospitals. Therefore, the ‘Papageorgiou’ hospital was established as a legal entity under private law, but is beneficial and unable to become a profit-making company. This hospital, which is existing under the supervision of the Minister of Health and Welfare. The public is entitled to control the management of this legal person and the hospital is required to have all the control mechanisms available to it all the necessary documents to carry out the inspection. This hospital is operationally interconnected with the 3rd Health Region of Macedonia, and is updated within the framework of a programme of newspapers from the hospitals of Thessaloniki. So we are also given the opportunity here to implement a proper model of operation and administration that will change the image of the hospitals in the country. Thus, we will in practice transform our vision of better hospitals and quality services for all citizens without any financial burden. The hospital will therefore enjoy administrative and financial self-sufficiency, but will operate under the laws governing the National Health System. The Ministry of Health will fully monitor its financial function, but there will be this administrative self-sufficiency and flexibility, and this as a state institution will, of course, remain in public supervision. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this is a public hospital whose legal form of private-law legal person merely ensures flexible operation and better provision of services to citizens. Under no circumstances is the hospital privatized and under no circumstances the provision of health services to anyone else. It is exclusively found in the regulatory and supervisory content of the Greek public bodies. It also introduces the institution of the Director-General, and indeed the Director-General will not be appointed by the Minister, but will be placed by means of a procedure and, of course, by an evaluation report. The functioning of a coordinating committee involving the commander, the Director-General and other manager of the hospital shall also be introduced. The information system that is essential for the operation of a hospital and, as we spoke previously about the country's bankruptcy and the costs of the National Health System, we know that you have not yet made progress in the functioning of the individual health record, nor have you voted for the system to see all the costs of all hospitals, not only the Minister, but also all those who are responsible for seeing the costs and costs of hospitals, but also their needs, to determine what the programme is and what the programme could be. You have also weakened the Committee on Health Procurement. You didn't make a central commission. And why didn't you? Because you have certainly not gone through any digitisation of the National Health System. This is something that can be done in the hospital and can be done by funding and by strengthening the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Also, the way in which staff are recruited. How many years have you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, been regularly recruited to the ESS?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u205	What are you talking about? Do you know what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u206	Of course! I'm talking about doctors. Today you know very well that the assistants...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u207	Two thousand permanent doctors have been appointed in previous years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u208	We won't have a dialogue. Mr President, I will conclude. Today, then, it becomes a more flexible way of recruiting staff, so that we can have more rapid and fairer provision of health services for the citizens. Indeed - you did not say that - there has been special care for the transport of personnel. In order to transfer the staff of the ‘Sismanoglou’, special care has been taken to ensure that they are transferred to the new hospital with the same employment relationship, to the same degree as they currently possess. I shall conclude very briefly on the issue of the second donation which, at the request of the Government, will not proceed to the part concerning radiopharmaceuticals production units. I will say that in fact our government has decided that in this part of the cycles are essentially inconsistent, because their design to function and install them was done without planning and without planning by the SYRIZA government. Mr Paulakis also admitted this at a previous meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs that the relevant decision on the installation of the circuits was taken because of SYRIZA's confrontation with the private supplier, because you had not calculated, ladies and gentlemen, neither the costs of installation nor the problems of industrial production. The cost of these cycles is EUR 8 000 000 plus EUR 3 000 000, the cost of reception facilities plus the cost of staff employed by at least 12 people who must be employed per operating shift. The Greek State is therefore in no interest when the Greek State can be provided with 330,000,000 euros, that is, hospitals. This means that these needs will be met by the private sector. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that the last decade has hit the National Health System, mainly on the level of equipment, but also on the staff of hospitals. However, the time has come for donations such as the Stavros Niarchos Foundation to ensure the best possible conditions of care for patients, to provide high-level medical services in a welcoming and modern care environment. That is exactly what our Government is seeking to ensure. And for this reason, we are asking today to ratify this contract between the Greek public and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. The private initiative is coming home to strengthen public services. And this is the great contribution of the public institutions, such as the Foundation's contribution to the Greek state. I therefore invite you to honour this offer by voting in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u209	The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Kegeroglu, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that PASOK established public health in the country, built the National Health System, made huge infrastructure, created over 50 health centers, sixty modern prefecture hospitals and seven university establishments. It is, at the same time, a fact that over the years, the crisis, but also the governance of SYRIZA and New Democracy, hospitals and the health system are denounced daily. You have not been able to serve, but you have not even supported the infrastructure that exists and which is a huge wealth of the Greek people, to modernise the technological equipment, others from inability fully and others from ideology and feasibility. The feasibility is obvious. It's the aim of depreciating the public health system to privatise this as well. For us, however, the National Health System is a key pillar of the social state. We are talking about the public health system and we are different from both the state-of-the-art state-of-the-art prisoners who talk about state-of-the-art, perfect and out-of-date, and from the New Democracy talking about private health. Let me say that the public system, of course, is an umbrella and can best combine the basic pillar that is the public system, the public structures - if you want - with transparency rules and clear procedures and role and cooperation with the private sector. But not mixed things. No confusing, gray zones and complications. So, for us today, there is a need to have a debate on the regeneration of the ESS, on the maintenance and supplementation of infrastructure - because Komotini and some other cities, as we have already proposed, need new hospitals, need new hospitals - and the supply of modern technology. Health centres and hospitals must be provided. That must be our concern. I come to today's debate on the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, but not just. I would say that we have discussed it again and voted again twice. Once, we voted with Law 4564/2018 with a government of SYRIZA. And I think that all parties have then voted 'yes', except for the JRC. I don't remember what Golden Dawn had done. And next time, we voted for it with New Democracy Law 4638 in November, which again voted for all the 'yes' parties, except for the JRC. We have voted for the acceptance of the donation. What's coming today? It comes again or a donation, the vote, but in an article with a hybrid management model, which does not seem to be what it is, which aims, because it is supposed to be better according to the government. We have a spoon, which says you cannot deny - and that is reasonable - the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. And that's right. So I'll put you next door and a new model I have in mind and you can't just vote for it. And tomorrow I will bring it to you for the other hospitals and I will tell you: "But you voted the other day at the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation." Do you now deny it?’ The fact that the Stavros Niarchos Foundation has already given donations to the children's hospitals and to everything that has been mentioned and has not made conditions for changing its model of conversion to private law and, of course, that in this contract it did not demand it and it is not his request, but it is about the government's intention to promote another model, it makes me talk about chickens. However, let us take it clearly in line with what we say about good legislature and procedures, which Mr Gerapetti said to us. So Mr Gerapetititi, who voted for the bill and then disappeared along with the good legislation - an unseen one - would say now, if it were not a minister that a bill should come autonomous, which concerns the new model of administration that the New Democracy has in mind. It's a majority and it's entitled to bring the bill. It would have said that this bill should enter the consultation, as required by the law and the Rules of Procedure of the House. It would have said that this bill would normally come to the committee, where the bodies and scientists will be consulted and called, based on a study, that is to say we have a political framework, a study - so the opinion of the scientists - consultation. The health professionals express an opinion and the parties say their opinion. Here, not even the parties will speak. If we hadn't complained, only one rapporteur would have spoken. Is there a very serious issue right now that goes through the drill and there is a ban on the parties and especially on the MPs, the representatives of the Greek people to speak here about this serious issue? That's why I'm telling you, you have the right to bring it as a regular bill. Why did you put it here? But this is a huge slip - and because you have not pointed it out, I will say it - is this your opinion? Hi, I'm glad to meet you. Put it as a separate article, so that the Greek state and Parliament of the Greeks can also be able at any time when it will find that it is a deadlock, that it entangles, that it does not serve the public interest, that the purpose of the good you have in your mind - I do not question it - is not to legislate and change it. You don't do that, gentlemen. You say 'in the dictionary' under the contract. And because the contract goes along with the donation and on the basis of signatures that have fallen, the Greek State is bound to have a model that can in practice and you are also convinced that it has escaped what was originally in your mind. See most of the legacy. They have failed and are not working, because there are commitments in the biennial, whether from donations or because they were agreed at some stage and with the Greek state and cannot today be changed by law. This is the greatest sliding of your intervention. So we - to conclude - say clearly third 'yes' to the acceptance of the donation. We say clearly, as with the children's hospitals, this is a contribution. However, note that it does not exempt the State from its obligation to create modern infrastructure. And the creation of modern infrastructures is a main concern of the state and not of charity and institutions. They're welcome, but they can't substitute the public. Otherwise, the Stavros Niarchos Foundation may propose that a Minister of Health should put him in the Ministry. I don't know. It would be a good idea, because she has better studies. Rather not by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, but by the "DIANOSIS". It does - and I believe - 'DIANOSIS' is doing a great deal of scientific studies on many issues, from demographic, health and the economy, but it does not mean that it also makes the political decision that it has the approval of the Greek people for the direction it is going to go. So you guys have the approval, bring the bill here. That is why we say 'no' to the government plans, which come through a private contract to commit the Greek state. No, gentlemen. What I'm saying is that you can't, Mr. Lambroulis, falsify whatever you say, if you say about me. Thank you very much for your attention. In the vote, as you will see afterwards, because you have again put the two opposing interests in the same article, one that runs counter to the public interest and the other that is in accordance with the public interest, obviously cannot be voted on and we will be placed with the present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u211	To withdraw Mr. Kegeroglu's falsifications.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u212	Will another parliamentary representative speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u213	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u214	Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u215	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll say a few things. Besides, everything has been heard so far. The bill under discussion concerns the ratification of two contracts with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. The first is from 3-2-2020 Donation Contract, Work I Annex 5 and concerns the establishment of the General Hospital of Komotini Foundation "Stavros Niarchos". The institution fully undertakes the design, construction and equipment of the new hospital, which will be set up in a new location in Komotini. The General Hospital of Komotini Foundation "Stavros Niarchos" will meet the needs of adults and children in Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, replacing the General Hospital of Komotini, "Sismanoglio". It will also have a psychiatric adult nursing unit and an artificial kidney unit. The Government has already made sure that the studies, environmental licensing and approval by the authorities responsible for setting up the necessary road network in the hospital are completed. The implementation of this project at the General Hospital of Komotini Foundation "Stavros Niarchos" will be done with a budget of 105,000 euros and includes all stages, the costs of drawing up all studies, the costs of building the facilities, the costs of forming the environment, the costs of purchasing medical and hotel equipment and equipment for the maintenance of all sites. At the same time, the contract includes a condition for the training of staff at the institution's expense in relation to the use of infrastructure and medical equipment systems. The implementation of the project is expected to be completed in fifty-three months after the ratification of the contract, i.e. to be completed by mid-2024. The hospital will extend to an area of about twenty-five thousand square meters. The location selected for the new hospital is seven kilometers from the town of Komotini and five hundred meters from the Ennatia Road. At the latest eighteen months before the planned completion of the project, the Greek State will have designated the legal person under private law to take over the management and operation of the hospital, according to the Organisation of the General Hospital of Komotini Foundation “Stavros Niarchos”. Our comments to the first convention are as follows: Firstly, the general hospital is being created, and the Komotini Hospital is already in existence without, in our view, sufficient justification. The public will undertake the process of water supply and electricity, telecommunications and natural gas. In this respect, we do not understand the exact meaning. Secondly, the public will be charged with the costs of interconnecting the hospital with the road network. However, the level of the burden does not arise, whereas the report by the General Accounting Office of the State does not provide for any specific expenditure. Thirdly, it is called for the establishment of a legal person of private law for the operation of that hospital. It is, in other words, attempting to enter the private factor. It is thus exempted from public audits and from the public staff's status, while it is made more vulnerable to money laundering, misery, gifts, commissions and all the rest that we know are happening to a great extent in the health system. Fourthly, it becomes compulsory for private insurance, and here we are wondering why, since this is not the practice followed by the public. In the event of a risk, we are wondering who will be the beneficiary of the compensation. The second contract included in today's bill is an amendment from 3-6-2019 donation contract between the Greek State and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. On the basis of the initial contract, the supply and installation of medical equipment for positron emission to hospitals in Heraklion, Ioannina, Larissa and Alexandroupolis and the establishment of radiopharmaceutical facilities in the hospitals of Heraklion, Ioannina, Larissa and Thessaloniki were envisaged. At the request of the Greek Government, the part relating to radiopharmaceutical production units will not be initiated and the contract will be amended. This excludes the part relating to radiopharmaceuticals and adjusts accordingly the project budget, which will now amount to EUR 9,000,000. According to what we read in the convention, the timetables are clear and quite narrow. Do the Greek government really have any plans to respect the agreed timetable? Do we know how much money they need under these conditions? There is no provision in either the General Accounting Report, which we have become accustomed to in almost all the government's bills, for the costs incurred by the Greek State. In fact, we're actually walking on dark ground. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, I will still need to. Will we ratify the agreement without knowing how much money the public is ultimately required, so that the project can be carried out? Are we sure that the timetables will be respected, since any delay will create extra costs, even the risk of cancellation of the project? In other words, all this is completely inconceivable, such as all the other bills that the government has brought us in recent years. With regard to the second convention of the draft law amending the Convention ratified in November 2019 under Law 4638, I have to say that the Stavros Niarchos Foundation was responsible for the supply and installation of special medical equipment, for the production of positrons, as well as for the creation of radiopharmaceuticals plants within five public hospitals and, in particular, in Larissa, Ioannina, Heraklion, Alexandroupolis and Papageorgiou hospital in Thessaloniki. The ratification was made by your own government, by the New Democracy. So we wonder what suddenly changed in three months to decide that we don't need to create derived radiopharmaceuticals. The original contract concerned 17,000,000 euros and the correct one that is now coming concerns almost half, that is, only EUR 9,000,000. You give no substantial response to why we do not need to set up radiopharmaceutical plants. Both in the explanatory statement and in the draft law, the sole reasoning you give is that the needs of the Greek public are served more fully by providing only the special medical equipment. We don't understand it, so we'd like more explanations to do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u216	The Minister for Health, Mr. Kontozamanis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u217	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would first like to stress once again that the Government ensures the public health system. As far as the two sanctions are concerned, you said, Mr Polakis, that the donation had actually changed in the course, because in the beginning it was for the entire hospital "Announcement" and then changed and various other projects were made. We voted for this - I think too many - in this Chamber and there was a large majority. And let me say that I believe that any plans, any proposals that have always been discussed between the Ministry of Health and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. He never did the Stavros Niarchos Foundation anything without the Ministry of Health knowing it. Therefore, you had this proposal, the Stavros Niarchos Foundation accepted it and proceeded. I want to make something clear about the Komotini Hospital. First of all, because things have been heard in committee and nowadays, it is not a PPP at the Hospital of Komotini, it is the donation of an institution, the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation. This hospital belongs entirely to the public. The State will operate it, the State will ensure the necessary services to be provided so that all citizens can access it. Also, because most parties in this Chamber have ruled the place - I said it the other day and I want to say it again - the legal person of private law is a public legal person. Whether it is a legal person governed by private law or a legal person governed by public law, as long as it is financed by the State budget, it is an entity of the general government and falls under public law. So under no circumstances is this hospital being privatised. We have to be clear. The jobs of the staff shall be guaranteed with the same employment relationship. At the same locations, in the same branches, they will be transferred to the new hospital and, of course, modern management and operation models will be applied, which are truly unprecedented for Greek data and they actually put the health system in the era of modern technology and digital hospitals. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] I would like to stress here that it has been said that there will be flexible supply systems in the hospital. Yes, of course, there will have to be and there must be, so that, quickly, efficiently and economically, supplies can be made in this hospital and, more generally, in the health system, because we need to change the health supply system. Because I do not think anyone likes the current situation, which is not centralised, there are no competitions, and all supplies are made out of contract in the health system and we are burdening public spending on them. It is therefore very important that this hospital operates, because the new management model will indeed be a model for the operation of hospital units in the National Health System. Now, as far as the circles are concerned, we have stressed that the installation and operation of the circuits is incomprehensible for the Greek State. The production of radiopharmaceuticals and its movement, as planned, presents difficulties.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u218	With what economics study? Because we have the back!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u219	I told you, I'll talk to you again. And the price that the Greek public will buy from private individuals will be lower than the cost of production of radiopharmaceuticals in the circles that we would put in hospitals, because you told us, Mr Polakis, about "Transition" and "Saint Anargyros". I can tell you again that you have not calculated the costs of production of radiopharmaceuticals and the costs of consumables. Also, there is no longer just one private person...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u220	What are the consumables, Mr. Contozamani? Tell me about it. I know them. Do you know them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u221	Total cost of production.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u222	What are the cyclotronic consumables? Tell me, do you know? Does any of your colleagues know about them from behind? But he's talking about cyclotronium consumables.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u223	There's a cost of producing radiopharmaceuticals.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u224	Minister, please, I'm sorry. Mr. Comrade, you know you have to ask for the floor. Ask for the floor and, if I don't give it to you, protest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u225	Can I also say something? I said the spatial distribution of cyclotrones was wrong. In Alexandroupolis where PET is placed, where will the radio medicine be purchased? Would you interconnect the hospitals of Alexandroupolis with Thessaloniki, so that it would appear to be a single legal person? From a private person we'll necessarily buy it. There is also no monopoly on the production of radiopharmaceuticals. Another production unit and a third production unit is already in place in the area of Lamia, in order to produce radiopharmaceuticals and give us lower prices. And the prices today at EUR 470 in the EEA and EUR 330 in the Papageorgiou and Metaxas hospitals - I submitted the relevant offers to the committee's minutes yesterday and re-table them in the Minutes - show that the price as far as it goes is going to fall. And to tell you the prices in some countries of Europe. In Western and Central Europe it is EUR 250 to EUR 350 plus transport costs, in the United Kingdom it is EUR 450, in Bulgaria it is EUR 450. Greece has already reached 330 euros. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis, submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] You said we'd be forced to buy from private individuals. Yeah, if the privateer is cheaper, we'll buy the private radio medicine. We have no idealism in this part. Now, the amount of donation is not reduced, because we have already asked the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for another donation in order to replace the circles that will not be installed - because we are in advanced discussions, I do not wish to extend - always on the basis of the public interest, the upgrading of the services provided to the Greek citizen and the creation of new services, which will improve the daily life of the citizen. To conclude, I would like once again to stress the following: public-private partnerships are not a privatization of health. Public-private partnerships are financial instruments which help us improve existing services and infrastructure in the health system and create new for every citizen. So don't confuse the PPPs with privatization. In no case is health privatised. You're also doing something else wrong. You're messing with PPPs with outsourcing. It's completely different things. I would also like to say something, ending with regard to the competition you said, Mr Polakis, on oxygen in the Second Health Area. This contest is an ESRB program. There was one who submitted an offer and, because there were technical issues in the offer, it was declared by the evaluation committee atrocious. This does not mean either that the money has been lost or that the competition will not be reopened. It is an issue that we are discussing, because in the mainland it may be considered inappropriate to produce oxygen, but in island Greece it is an issue that we need to discuss. Under no circumstances, Mr Polakis, we do not accept orders from above. And let me tell you that 'the house of the hanged man does not speak of rope'. You're the one who gave orders from above in order to get the candidate's files from the CDC to your office. Finally, I would like to say this. Mr. Xanthos referred to the coronary case. Indeed, there is a commitment from the Minister of Health returning tonight from the Council of Ministers to Brussels to inform the parties of the House of any developments in this area at European level, the decisions taken, the planning and preparation that the Greek state has made so far and how we will proceed from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u226	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u227	Mr Colleagues, I give you the floor for just a minute, because we have to close the procedure and go to the next bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u228	I understand that, Madam President, and thank you very much. I would like to respond to some inaccuracies Mr Contozamanis has said. Mr Contozamani, if you have an economic study - because we had the backwards - to prove that buying from private radiopharmaceuticals is more economical than producing it, you can bring it to me. But you don't. Secondly, here you submitted a document dated 20-1-2020, that is a month ago making this offer to Papageorgiou, because in 'Metaxas' until last week it was bought EUR 445 and not EUR 350. Even 350 to be, Mr. Kontozamani, 150 euros are being taken in Italy. That's about what they get in Turkey.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u229	Symbols, how much did they take?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u230	We got it 700 out of 800 that was for a decade. However, in order not to say the same again, Mr Chryssollis, because you have lost the issue of auctions, the negotiation and all price reductions have taken place since the cyclotrons, the ones we ordered, the two with the competition and these. Now you cancel this, so they can continue to be monopolies. He's been found second now, the Bulgarian who's importing. Is what you are saying to me, Mr Contozamanis, how the radio medicine will be transferred from Papageorgiou to Alexandroupolis? Egnatia Street is there, in three hours it's there. So, how does the Bulgarian bring it from above to Athens? Doesn't road bring it? How's he bringing it? Is he throwing me sling? Is that a argument? The cycloterones we put, both entering the General Oncology Hospital and the "Metataxas" and the others, can produce thirty with thirty-five doses a day. A good PET section can't do more than fourteen to fifteen a day, even if it works from morning to afternoon. That is why I was telling the committee before that, if we put the six cyclotrons on, we can cover almost all the needs of public cyclotrons. But you don't want to remove the bite from the private, so they can always be blackmailed. And here we will be in a year, to see where these guys will have gone the price! And what you're talking about with the oxygen generators, which is exactly the same logic when you have three judicial decisions - three! - to justify the Greek State in the actions brought by 'SOL' and LINDE against this competition, what is the problem with the technical specifications? These are the same technical specifications that existed when he entered the Mytilini oxygen generator. Were they exalted here? Now are the specifications shattered?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u231	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u232	Also, Roylos comes out three months ago, the signatory now, and says "the excellent program, we will be relieved" and in two months he signs the cancellation of the contest. You have a phone. This can't be the other way. And I was calling about the staff - yes, I was calling - and I asked for files and I caught eighty wrong modulations in two or twenty applications. That's how it happened, Mr. Contozamani.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u233	Minister, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u234	Yes, Madam President, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u235	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Polakis, you were Deputy Minister of Health and you know from procedures. As far as oxygen is concerned, the competition had a typical problem and was declared barren. I repeat, we have not said that the project will not be done or that the money has been lost or that it will not be reopened. Don't make any impressions. In Italy, which you have mentioned - you are well aware of the question of circuits - there are too many PET packed and, in fact, the price is very low in relation to the rest of Europe. Already in Greece we have reached the sum of EUR 330, without even having a second on the market, which comes second, as I said, but third. We will be happy to be here next year and we will see how much the private sector sells the radio medicine to the Greek public. And I told you that yes, we have estimated that production will be more expensive and that it is not of interest. And we have no problem buying from somewhere else cheaper. As far as the Egnatia Road and Traffic are concerned, there are conditions and conditions both for the production, in-house production of radiopharmaceuticals and industrial production. Because if a hospital produces more, we're going to industrial production. There are different environmental conditions and operating conditions as well as for the movement of radiopharmaceuticals. So all this is not simple talk or easy solutions. They require a plan that you have not done and there are too many problems in order to be able to implement this proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u237	That's why the Nuclear Medicine Company tells you to put it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u238	The Nuclear Medicine Company refers to research purposes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u239	Not only. He puts it backup for that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u240	The purpose of these circuits is not to investigate. You want to talk about an investigation? To talk, we're not against it. However, this is not the case as you put it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u241	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle and the article of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Standards Foundation Stavros S. Niarchos" and the Greek State's Amendment Convention of 3.6.2020, of 3.6.2019 individual Donation Convention - Project VI between the Foundation "Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation" and the Hellenic State for the strengthening and upgrading of infrastructure in the field of health". We shall now vote on the principle of Article and on the whole, and they will be voted on separately. We would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, an article, a farewell article and a whole. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u242	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u243	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u244	Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Health: "Standardisation of the Loan Convention - Project I and its Amendment Convention by 3.6.2019 individual Donation Convention - Project VI between the Foundation "Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation" and the Greek State in order to strengthen and upgrade infrastructure in the field of health" was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Article and of the whole, and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u245	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u246	The House has given the mandate requested. Before we continue, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended, since they participated in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-three students and students and three educational attendances from the 3rd Grammaroupolis High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we now proceed to the second draft law on the supplementary agenda: A single discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum: ‘Amendment of Law 4251/2014 (A'80) adapting Greek legislation to Directive (EU) 2016/801 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of research, studies, practice, voluntary service, student exchanges or educational programmes and the employment of in-house unpaid assistants (au pair)’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 6 February 2020 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, a single, in principle and on articles. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u247	Madam President, please, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u248	Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u249	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to raise an issue concerning the legislative function of the House and the observance of the Constitution. As you know, this draft law that has come for discussion today was tabled on 25 September and was discussed in October by the relevant committee of Parliament. In the meantime, we had the re-establishment of the Ministry of Migration Policy. So here we don't have a simple remodeling. We have a change in the structure of the government and, in accordance with Article 35 of the Constitution, it would normally have to be re-established to the relevant Ministry and signed by the relevant Minister, Mr Mitarakis and Deputy Mr Kumoutsakos, because we have the paradox at the moment to discuss this draft law in the presence of Mr Koumoutsakos, while it continues to be a bill submitted by the Ministry of Civil Protection. In addition to this, and in its content, it needs a series of adjustments and the Minister must present legislative improvements. In any case, however, we think that, because there has been a change in the structure of the government and not just a reformation, this deficit is a serious one. It concerns the democratic functioning and respect of the constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and is not cured by any formal adoption by Mr Mitarakis of a draft law which existed before the establishment of the Ministry. I would therefore like to ask that the draft law be withdrawn from the debate and formally tabled by the new Minister and Deputy Minister. The rest of the parties present in the Chamber must be placed, because it is an issue concerning the Constitution, respect for the legislative function and good legislature, for which the government is so cut but unfortunately the government is constantly violating.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u250	Thank you very much, my colleague. I would like to ask the Minister if he would like to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u251	I have heard your remark, which ignores the fact that it is absolutely urgent to go ahead with this legislation, because there is a high and serious cost and a penalty in our country, because we have been delayed in incorporating this directive. In your remarks, the immediate and pressing need to go ahead with the transposition of the directive is ignored because, as you know, due to successive delays that have begun since the previous government, its non-incorporation will bring about a penalty in our country or a lump sum, which will be paid once, or a penalty per day, paid as from the next day of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. And that's imminent. We therefore have every reason, in order to protect the interests of the country, to proceed with the transposition of the directive into today's debate. I listen carefully to your argument. I think that this House has the possibility and the flexibility to understand the gravity of a plea - respectable - but also the immediate necessity to move forward, in order to avoid as a country being subject to the penalty of the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u252	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u253	Madam President, on what the Minister said, could I say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u254	Here, my colleague, you have the floor for just a minute, please, to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u255	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I will answer both of the arguments you have put forward. Firstly, it can never cure the urgent infringement of Article 35 of the Constitution and, of course, the legislative function of the Parliament based on the Constitution. This is something that cannot be violated by any customary law or need. As far as the urgency is concerned, Minister, I would like to refer to your second point, because that is not the case either. The draft law has been discussed since 15 October. It's been five months. If it was so urgent, why didn't you bring it in earlier? In the emergency procedure. So, Madam President, we insist that, firstly, it cannot be urgent to derogate the Constitution and, secondly, there is no urgency, because they should have brought it as the Ministry of Civil Protection since October, while the Ministry of Migration Policy has been set up for three weeks. They had the opportunity to reassign it and go with an urgent procedure in the House, but now respecting the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u256	If I may, Minister, take the floor for a moment with regard to what the honourable Member said, because we have to stop this debate, so that the procedure can begin. I would like to remind you that it is possible for every ministry to adopt the bill, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the House. I read the relevant article: ‘The bills and their explanatory statement and the special report under Article 75(3) of the Constitution shall be signed by the relevant ministers. In the event of a change of the competent Minister, the drafts submitted shall be adopted by the replacement of the Minister either by written declaration to the President of the Parliament or by oral statement to Parliament.’; So there is this adoption document and there has also been a debate in the Conference of Presidents, where there has been no comment and there has been no difference. So we're continuing the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u257	Madam President, I am sorry, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u258	Here you go, Mr. Voutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u259	I beg your pardon, because I hoped that the Minister will respond to the basic argument regarding the possibility of legislating the House. Of course there is the article in question. There was no debate in the Conference of Presidents on this matter. It doesn't matter. If, in fact, the President of Parliament had taken it, he should have been in the practical and in any case throughout the previous period, at least I remember, Madam President, all over the last few years and shared consent of all the political forces, when there was a change of minister - let alone if there was a change of structure - in very critical bills and in other cases there was a re-deposit with the signatures of the ministers, who will now be called by the House, if it is voted on today, to implement this bill, this legislation. I really believe - I have already seen Mr Koutnajis, whom I appreciate, that the Secretary of Government is valid - that you too, Mr Kumucako, and all of you should have done a different preparation. In my view it is not possible to proceed with this Status procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, I will make a brief comment and I shall immediately give the floor to the Minister, as has to be done. I think nothing has changed in the bill. It's exactly the same bill that was submitted in October. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u261	Obviously nothing has changed in the substance of the bill and the necessary legislative improvements have been made in order to adapt to the new situation. As regards the need to speed up and the urgency of this, the attempt to debate this and to integrate the directive has already begun for the days of your government. Also, due to the very long delay at that time, as early as July 2018, the European Commission launched an infringement procedure against our country, which has been in place since January 2019 at the time of the reasoned opinion, i.e. we are really a breath before serious fines are imposed on the country. If you believe that you are responsible for the long delay that we now have to go to a new delay...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u262	Since October...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u263	October is not compared to the beginning of February, with a heavy legislative work, because this government legislates, we have this evil in relation to you! The fact that there has been a delay of two and a half months since October, with a very heavy legislative work of this House, is not sufficient reason for you to invoke it, for you to delay the incorporation of the directive for an unacceptable period of time, to the extent that you have brought this country to a standstill at the moment. That is to say, politically, I do not think it makes you any good, because it makes us remember how late you are, at a time when nothing looks like the two months of a Parliament that legislates at a fiery rate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Hetas has asked for the floor. But you will allow me to say, Mr Heta, that you are not a parliamentary representative today. I think it's Mr. Villard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u265	But I'm a party representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u266	Has he authorized you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u267	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u268	Good. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u269	Madam President, we simply have to take this position, because we have to understand - we will agree with what SYRIZA says today - that we are talking about a bill which is very serious, especially at the time it comes and with what our country lives. We talked about it with the Ministry of Civil Protection and we are called upon to vote today with the Ministry of Migration Policy, which was founded again. It is another example of the curiosity with which the government is dealing with the whole issue, but also of the clandestineness with which it legislates. As to the fact that the axe is imminent, Minister, for the fine that Greece will eat, to say that since 23 May 2018 we are already ‘due’.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u270	Don't tell us. We're trying to get a cure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u271	We're not telling you. But here you are fighting SYRIZA, because this is your only confrontation and not just today, who made the biggest mistake or who has the greatest responsibility. You both have it and it turns out once again. You're seven months government. Of course they've been delayed. Since July, though, since there's the axe above our head and we're going to get a fine, why didn't you bring it before? You've brought more! You have brought more amendments! You have passed signs and monsters since the day you took over the country's rule and you come with another ministry today, and we talked about it with another ministry. If that is what you think it's a serious legacy - and I'm talking about the world that's watching us right now - go on like that. Either way, you're gonna do your head. Anyway, whatever we say, you will pass it, you will go on, we will talk about it, you will vote on it. The point is we don't get a serious picture out there. We're talking about it with another ministry, and we're voting for it. This is the picture we are taking out, and that is the way you are dealing with, without any seriousness, these very serious issues. This is our side, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, do you want to answer or not? To start the process, I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u273	I would like the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u274	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u275	This whole debate is being summarised here in a dilemma: are you taking the responsibility of a fine on our country? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u276	I'll make it public now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u277	I would like to address my colleagues as a whole. The dilemma, therefore, is whether or not on an issue that has been submitted the legislative improvements, some will accept the fact that at this juncture the country will be subjected to heavy fines as a result of the delay in incorporating the directive or not. If that's your position, say it in public.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u278	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u279	I didn't give you the floor, though. And you're taking him off today, Mr. Heta. You know that very well. He should have been Mr. Villards in your place. Isn't that right? You can't if you don't change the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u280	Okay, Madam President. Can we just get a little bit of a glimpse? Can I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u281	Here you go, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u282	Thank you very much, Madam President. Our position, Mr Kumucako, is that you could in these seven months that you are running for you to have brought it from September onwards when it was discussed in committees with the new ministry. Why didn't you? Here's the cuff. I will not pay the fine nor my party, nor the Greeks, because either SYRIZA or you are late or you are not typical. What are you talking about? Because there's the axe of the fine, you bring the bill as it is today. You should have changed it a week ago, ten days ago, a month ago. What did you do? Are you going to leave us in this Chamber because you are irregular? What else are we gonna hear? Christ and God bless you! You're forcing us because you don't do your job. We've heard it all in here!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u283	Mrs Raptti has asked for the floor for a minute. What I want to repeat is that nothing has changed in the bill. I would like to point out that the majority rapporteur, the minority rapporteur and the special speaker of the Change Movement recommended the vote on the draft law, which has not changed and is coming today. You, Mr Heta, have reserved for the plenary. I will give Mrs Rapt a minute and we will continue straight to the process. Mrs. Rapt, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u284	I would also like to express the view that this objection of a procedural nature is pretext precisely because, as you said, Madam President, it has already been discussed in committee, it has also come to the Conference of Presidents on a request from the Ministry to adopt, after the Minister has changed, the new Minister. Therefore, given that there is this openness, that is, our condemnation and the imposition of sanctions by the European Union for the non-incorporation of the directive, I believe that there is no reason why we should not discuss this today, as the SYRIZA parliamentary representative puts here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u285	The former President of Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u286	To be clear, the government and the country can obviously avoid the fine if you take political responsibility, because this is the case, unfortunately, always with urgency from the new ministry, for the bill to be re-issued. For all the time frame you realize that it is very few, very few days. There's no such thing as that. Of course the government always takes political responsibility, and it is by majority that it comes as an emergency, but there is no question of fines. I would like to say clearly that it is different, when the government changes, that a Minister of the same Ministry should adopt a previous bill, and that the Rules should also be voted on and that the structure of the government should change, that he should change the ministry and that, while he was proposing the Ministry of Civil Protection, because another Ministry was created, this other ministry could not be adopted by a simple declaration of adoption, as if it were a family, to vote for it. There is a question of proper functioning and legitimisation. Last, Madam President, to Mr Kumucako, because he repeated it twice, or I would not say so. I hope the government will legislate at a terrible rate, as it has said. Thirty-three laws, Mr Kumucaco, have passed over the last four years in four and a half years. The pace that you have now legislated is a question of whether it will reach this number. It's not a matter of quantity and don't say it again that the previous government didn't legislate. And now won't even reach the three hundred. It is a matter of the quality and the issues it brings in every time. I mean, it's not an argument for the Chamber. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr President. I'll give Mr. Kamine the floor for two minutes. Mr. Kamine, please, as soon as you can, let's get started.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u288	Not two minutes, Madam President. If there was a serious issue that touches the substance, I'd just sit down and talk about it. But here too often we dilut the deaf and swallow the camel. We have made legislative acts with a time-consuming responsibility. We have already made the amendments unnecessarily on the subject of the bills for years. There is a whole deterioration in Parliament, and I do not think now about a completely formal issue, especially for a directive which should have been incorporated for many years now, to sit here and to make this issue happen. If we are to discuss at some point seriously whether any distortions in the process affect the quality of our work, the first to accept it would be me. But I do not think it is worth it right now to create a subject which is just a subject of formality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u289	Thank you very much, Mr. Kamine. Minister, you have the floor and we close with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u290	In order not to create false impressions, Mr President, I think that with your great experience and your continued presence in the House, you should know or have been informed about the parliamentary representative of your party that this issue has been discussed at the Conference of Presidents and it was clear that it could not be re-entrusted. That is why we are debating today. I understand the intention of the Police Officer to create impressions about allegedly improper or hasty legislation, but he is failing, because the Conference of Presidents had decided on this. And one last. I read: Theme of the adoption of a draft law incorporating this 2014 directive, which says: "We know that under Rule 85(7) of the Rules of Procedure, we are adopting a draft law titled "for the economy of time I say it, "which bears the signature of the former Minister of Economy and Development of the Municipality of Papadimitriou. Signature of Ioannis Drasakis’.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u291	It's the same ministry. There's no change of structure!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u292	I said this because I see that you want a preliminary point of order to create a false impression when the essence of the matter is that the Greek Parliament must incorporate this directive in order to prevent the country from imposing a fine that we have no reason to bear. And that is, in the end, the essence of the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, twenty-nine students and students and three teachers from the 1st Municipal School of St. Constantine Aitolokarnania. The House welcomes you. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Athanasios Zebble, now has the floor for 15 minutes. Please open the speaker record system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u294	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to begin with, I would like to say that we have been talking about a directive that should be implemented since 2016. The Minister referred to the reasons why this bill was urgent, but I am also going to put another one. Can you imagine in those years how many have been troubled? Even children who were born in Greece when they had to study would have to leave the country and come back. People and students should leave the country and come back with another reason to practice. Even those who were practicing Greece and were foreigners to leave the country and to rejoin them in order to integrate them into the internal market as workers. So imagine all these years in what suffering we have put on all these people and their families with the responsibilities of those who are currently coming and putting up procedural issues. Ladies and gentlemen, as has been said in this draft law, it is in line with Directive 2016/801 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 and sets the conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals into Greek territory for a period exceeding ninety days for the purposes of education, scientific research, practice and voluntary service. In the past, Directive 2005/71 and Directives 2004/114, which had been transposed into Greek law, including by law, Law.4251/2014, had partially attempted to regulate that field. However, the application of these directives by the Member States has resulted in imperfections and shortcomings, which has forced the European Union to reform legislative acts in order to remove unjustified restrictions and bureaucratic delays. It is obvious that at a time when human potential is proved to be past, the European Union places education, research and innovation at the heart of its strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. In this respect, it wishes, in competition with the United States, to bring together the best scientists from all over the world to link research and innovation to the market and to respond to the challenges of the future. An obvious aim is to strengthen the European economy, create new jobs and achieve a higher standard of living. After all, the European Union, which invests huge sums in human capital and scientific excellence through flagship funding, would be able to accept procedural stunts and national peculiarities that cancel its strategic planning. This directive serves this philosophy by simplifying the admission system and extending the conditions for the residence of citizens of third countries in the European Union for the above purposes, in order to create an attractive and friendly environment, built on the fundamental principles of equal treatment and social rights. In this context the European Union, by means of a flexible and rapid process, creates a pathway of knowledge and opportunities for young citizens from third countries to attract the most talented and ambitious of them, initially starting from the educational exchange and mobility programmes of pupils and students and then giving favourable conditions for practical exercise and scientific research, with the ultimate aim of integrating them into the community and of absorbing them into the labour market, creating added value. Then we will see the most important arrangements for this directive, as they integrate and amend the Code of Migration and Social Integration, starting from the first part of the relevant section of the code on admission to study and voluntary service. In particular, third-country students covered by Union or multilateral mobility programmes shall extend their stay to our country from one year to two years and the number of hours they can work weekly from 10 to 15 hours or the corresponding in days or months. At the same time, the provision of a directive on the possibility of entering and staying in our country for a period of three hundred and sixty days for the student participating in the above educational mobility programmes and who holds a strong residence permit from the first Member State to carry out part of his or her studies in our country. By facilitating admission, in particular with regard to the timely issuance of entry visas and residence permits, mobility within the framework of top European Union initiatives on education, initiatives that invest in knowledge and competences, encouraging youth participation in the democratic life of Europe shall be strengthened. In fact, this provision is particularly important for educational institutions in the country in order to develop a popular destination for foreign students. In the same part of the above code as amended by this draft law, inter alia, special conditions are laid down for admission to participate in a voluntary programme of more than three months duration, the content of the agreement between the volunteer and the host institution, the approval procedure for bodies carrying out such programmes, as well as the procedure for issuing the residence permit within 90 days of the submission of a complete application. The voluntary Union programmes, based on the values of cooperation, altruism and solidarity, form a multicultural framework for social and cultural relations between the European Union and third countries. The third part of the code to be amended relates to the procedure for admission of third-country nationals for scientific research purposes. The relevant provisions provide for the procedure for the approval of research organisations in accordance with national law, the hosting contract for voluntary activity, and the conditions for granting a residence permit for the researcher and his or her family. It is important here to distinguish and differentiate treatment for short- and long-term mobility researchers with individual flexible procedures, which for the first time is established by this directive. This arrangement encourages the co-operation and transfer of knowledge and technology between research bodies in different states because, as the guru of innovation David Rowan, who recently visited our country, innovation comes when people with different ideas work together. If you get someone who's learned to work in Silicon Valley or London and put him next to people from Athens, then yes, it can be magical. However, the most important innovation in this European legislative act is established by Articles 12 and 25 of the draft law which provide for the possibility of both students and researchers, following completion of the practice or research respectively, to remain in the country for a period of one year with a transitional type of special residence permit in order to seek employment or to set up a business. This requirement is met by successive residence permits to the persons concerned, so that they do not have to leave the country in order to request their re-entry for a different reason. In this way, it is attempting to transfer the most radical ideas from amphitheatres and research laboratories to the workplace and the economy, with significant benefits for entrepreneurship, as they are a category of highly qualified scientists. Besides, the insurmountable automation in the production process marginalises low-skilled and limited skills, unlike young scientists of high-skilledness, such as the influx and exploitation of which the European Union seeks to ensure its competitiveness in critical areas such as technological innovation, robotics and artificial intelligence. The European Union's high-quality mobility activities further offer students the opportunity to acquire skills and competences through practical exercise. Thus, Article 27 of the draft law adds a new section to the code for this mandatory category, which establishes a flexible admission procedure with the national entry visa, which is justified by the short period of their stay in our country that does not normally exceed six months. As far as the concept of a third-country trainee is concerned, this directive creates, in addition to those who pursue their studies in accordance with national law and an additional distinctive category, that of the citizens who, within two years of the completion of their studies, wish to acquire experience in a professional environment. This distinction is important as in the latter case citizens are considered to be in employment in accordance with existing national legislation. However, in this case, our country, by virtue of the powers conferred on it by Article 6 of the Directive, reserves its right to adopt a joint ministerial decision to determine the admission volume per region of scientists practising in relation to work, while, in addition to the draft law, measures are taken to avoid the substitution of regular employment by students who carry out practical or apprenticeships, particularly in the tourism sector where abuses occur due to seasonality and labour intensity. In general, we find that the proposed provisions take precedence to protect the internal labour market from unfavourable distortions, by establishing penalties against enterprises that violate labour and insurance legislation and also against voluntary service providers that do not fulfil their legal obligations or operate exclusively to facilitate volunteer entry. In addition, third-country citizens in order to allow them to stay should prove to the competent authority that they have a real and reasonable chance of hiring or setting up an undertaking corresponding to their level of study. That is how a solid and strict set of conditions is structured to prevent the directive from being circumvented, the undermining of its objectives and the abuse of immigration legislation. In particular, cases of rejection, withdrawal or non-renewal of the relevant permits for public policy and public security purposes are being extended, particularly where serious and objective reasons show that the citizen is staying in the country for purposes other than those for which entry and stay were allowed. Furthermore, the researcher or student in order to be allowed to enter should prove to the competent authority that he has sufficient resources to obtain from, among other things, a grant or grant for study and ensure his or her capacity to live in our country without resorting to the national social welfare system. As a result of this, we must recognise that the draft law under discussion, such as during the legislative preparation phase, has been worked out by the co-legislative ministries, serves in an operational, reasoned, balanced and proportionate manner the objective of the integrated directive, fully adopting its mandatory regulations and assessing its optional section in the light of the weighting of different legal goods and national priorities. In this sense, there is no right to adopt, among other things, the provisions of the directive relating to the category of domestic unpaid assistants, since there are major risks, because of the particular situation that has arisen in this sector in our country. Finally, in order to avoid confusion, we should point out that the current provisions of our country applicants for asylum or temporary protection are explicitly excluded, in accordance with international conditions. While the conditions for illegal immigration and the management of the modern form of immigration are a reasonable field of ideological political confrontation, on the contrary, the regulation of cases of legal immigration seems to be about self-evident throughout the civilised world, especially when the organisation of legal immigration concerns noble purposes, such as education, scientific research and voluntary service. Nevertheless, for a directive that should have been incorporated into the national legal order since 2016, the national legislator is currently called on late, as the time-limit has elapsed since March 2018, in order for our country, which, in the context of the structured dialogue, is already at the stage of the reasoned opinion, is to avoid the imposition of financial penalties for breach of Union law. For these reasons, we invite you to vote in favour of this draft law, so that our country can open an additional window in the world, at a new era that requires the interaction and cooperation of individuals of different ethnic groups, with the aim of spreading knowledge and promoting research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mrs Auger, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, with all due respect, you were the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection when this bill was entered into the committee responsible for discussion, and now you are as Deputy Minister of Migration Policy and Asylum, starting with my first speech as rapporteur in this bill on the part of the opposition officer, I had stirred up the fact - and I felt that you were uncomfortable - that it was the Ministry of Civil Protection that was then the Ministry of Civil Protection to incorporate a European legislation - a directive and to regulate matters relating to the conditions of entry, residence, studies, the practice of exercising third-country nationals. I had wondered at the time, and I had stirred up why it might be the Civilian Ministry of Protection at once. Precisely because you had abolished the Ministry of Migration Policy. Five months of relics have passed by the New Democracy Government to realize how it has arranged and managed migration and refugee policy, as well as generally migration policy issues, to come and re-establish the Ministry of Migration Policy a few weeks ago. This description I am making, Minister, actually gives an answer to what you have not answered, because it took five months from the time the bill was introduced into the committee to date, so that you can come with another role and another capacity to discuss it in plenary. I say well, we say well and perhaps it took you this time to get you out of the very difficult position - because you are a man I respect very much - as you could not support your presence in that Ministry of Civil Protection, on matters relating to immigration. Today you were given an historic opportunity, with this objection and the constitutional and parliamentary issue, which is not just a procedural issue, to come this bill as the first bill of the established Ministry of Migration Policy and you did not. In fact, the Ministry of Civil Protection is here again as an expedited one. You would also have the opportunity to do so, thereby giving a nod to the world that migration policy issues are being discussed here in Parliament and are not legislated by legislative act. Because a few days ago, the first thing you have done was to legislate by legislative act, without allowing the Members of your party themselves, to look at them in the face and answer the questions they ask themselves. So the debate did not take place on the subject that was regulated or regulated by the legislative act in Parliament. You do not see in the eyes of your MPs and society, the representatives of the local society of the islands that have this topic are outside the House. It is therefore a tragic irony to discuss today immigration in this bill, and it has preceded the adoption of an act of legislation on immigration, as the right and, unfortunately, its extreme right. The adoption of the law which incorporates European legislation into our national law is regrettable, Mr Minister, for the Government. He does not believe what he is voting for, "whoever does", so to remember the phrase of an old strain that he had spoken of and the "State Wind". In these seven months, the Mitsotakis Government has practically demonstrated how the New Democracy sees immigration: As a synonym of the illegality in which only excessive repression and intimidation fits. Nothing else. Today, just pretend that you are interested in adapting to European law. If you really believed it, it would not be your vision in a country that has, if I am not mistaken, according to safe studies, twelve thousand prisoners to imprison twenty thousand extra refugees and immigrants on an island. This is unthinkable for a developed country in the Western world, but it is indicative. It is indicative of the indifference you show towards the country's European and international obligations, of respect for human rights and human dignity. Now look at the big picture. We are here today to discuss a bill attempting to regulate - and good - how we can attract people to Greece to strengthen research and development in critical productive sectors. We're talking about immigrants we want them. Because these are those who will choose our country for the reasons described in the bill. And to enable us to attract them, we tell them there are opportunities here for something better than, say, if they were going to a competitive economy and country. In any case, when they come here, they will be immigrants from their place and at the same time, we are actually closing down in prisons for other people - immigrants, refugees - because we do not like their colors, their tribes, the social status of the persecuted and the poor. And as your Minister says - and I would say with all due respect that he is not ashamed of it - we will have them shut down until they dismiss and leave. This will be history, that at the time we make laws on how to bring migrants we consider 'good', we are massively imprisoned, without the guarantees of European and international law, by those who are baptizing as 'bads': young children, unaccompanied minors. Do you understand the irritation? We do not deserve it either as Greeks or as Europeans or primarily as human beings. Election by New Democracy had overwhelmed that advertising space existed in the media with the motto: "Greece deserves better". Seven months later, her Chief and more Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, once again resorts to the tricks of communication to tell us: "We have said it and we have done it" and everyone is rushing to reproduce an empty piece of firework, because, if anything, the big problem with New Democracy is not what he says and does not, but what he does not say and does, for example, the requisitions with the act of legislation. But ultimately the big problem with the New Democracy is that what it says and what it does will not last for the history of this place. So let us talk about one of them, the field of immigration of young scientists and people with skills from abroad, who almost had to be regulated by the Ministry of Civil Protection as if growth would come with a steep shine. Our homeland we want to light it up, but not that way. Ladies and gentlemen, the incorporation of this directive is about attracting students and researchers from third countries to contribute to mobility, strengthening strategic cooperation relations between Greece and other countries of the European Union and Europe and third countries to economic development. The amendments introduced by this directive reflect the European Union's fundamental political choice to intervene regulatoryly in the field of immigration to attract third-country workers with high qualifications. In particular, it attempts to do so by intervening with the interconnection of cognitive, educational and research functions: studies, research activities and the adaptation of the labour market. These arrangements, which replace the existing ones, seek to make the entry procedures of students, researchers and trainees more flexible, on the other hand to standardise and rationalise them, to make the field more controllable. But here, it seems the government's embarrassment, for it is precisely because it is mechanically transferring the regulations to the Greek legal system without linking them to the country's slight political strategy in the areas of higher education, research and practical training. This is because the government has no policy to link migration to education and employment in the country, within the current international and European context. And that just means that her developmental intentions are unconscious and have nothing to do with reality. It is worth stressing - and I would therefore like to refer to the mistakes of the past - that no study or strategic analysis, neither of the Ministry of Education nor of the Ministry of Labour, accompanys or supports the proposed arrangements. Perhaps this has to do with the absence of studies based on statistics which, anyway, do not exist. Here too, Minister, we must recognise as a positive step the obligation to keep and keep statistics. Nevertheless, our country could benefit from the integration of these arrangements by specialising them in a way that would help to develop its branches and, above all, stimulate and finance public education itself, university institutions, since public universities will be the main players in attracting these special categories. And this is interesting in our country like, for example, Thessaloniki, which has large universities, which claims to be also a central hub of knowledge networks across the wider geopolitical region. However, this should have preceded the answer to the question: How do we want and on what terms do we want to make the Greek public universities a point of attracting foreign students, third-country nationals, with what guarantees to preserve the quality of the knowledge provided by public universities, with which guarantees to avoid the risk of degeneration, to work, to create graduates' works and to exploit such facilities, for example, recently promoted by the Minister of Education, the Ministry of Education, with private colleges and diplomas in two and a half years' time? The bill includes a total of twenty-seven articles and five internal articles on the procedure for admission of third-country nationals to practice and for the provision of more flexible procedures, national entry visas, for example. Several of the provisions of the bill have a purely technical character, added or deleted words, clarifications of terms and, as you said, legal adjustments will also be made to get the reports to the Ministry of Migration Policy and not to the Civil Protection. The only specialization of the arrangements, the admission volumes for individual categories are unfortunately referred to in ministerial decisions, which is reasonable firstly, but which is left without any criteria. It is clear that this is how these critical issues of national and regional development are left to the clienteles and bureaucratic mechanisms of ministerial offices and ministries. This micro-political logic also appears to be the only point of specialisation of European regulations by the proposed draft law concerns the tourism sector which is not explicitly mentioned in the directive as hosting bodies in practical terms. The logic of the project is clearly seen as a current business issue, a matter of management of interest in a particular sector, which is well known for its anti-operable practices and policies. A total of eight joint ministerial decisions, i.e. on critical issues without, however, setting a clear time and regulatory framework for their adoption, such as the crucial issue of the quota for students who exercise in tourist businesses. In any case, however, one cannot overlook that the standardisation of specific institutions of immigration law has the positive effect of ensuring better supervision of fields with atypical dimensions of often exploited character. And it is certainly a good thing that most of the categories, unfortunately not everyone, are subject to the equal treatment mechanisms. However, the positive elements of the proposed arrangements depend entirely on the national supervisory and control mechanisms for the application of the provisions mainly on immigration policy services which have been caught in the police structure of the Ministry of Civil Protection and we hope that they will now be caught in the new ministry. The little experience of our country from the various "Manoladas" is a reason to worry very seriously in favour of what interests it will be in this regard, not to carry out controls on the host companies and entities, or to approve on a non-discriminatory basis such bodies. We must recognise that positive steps are being taken, such as by abbreviating, for example, the time of issuing residence permits from ninety days to sixty days, the provision for mobility and family reunification procedures, the more flexible procedures for those who come only for practical exercise. However, particular attention should be paid to ensuring that third-country nationals do not fall victim to misinformation of trade and exploitation. I shall shorten my speech, Madam President, to keep to the political conclusion. The bill aspires to give opportunities to young immigrants, which is why we will be voting in favour of it. However, any noble aspirations happen to invade the current majority bill are far from government policy and government ideology, from its ideology, the inspirations and institutions of which have unfortunately remained, in other times, in times when the state has built enemies to suppress and discipline. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The New Democracy baptizes inhumanity whenever it cannot hide its lack of vision and management inability. All of these together characterise the works and the days of the seven months government's ruler Mitsotakis in its first few months. The truth is, that's what he can do. Let us hope it does not, however, destroy, irreparably, the timeless refuge of our people and nation, humanity. An inhuman society doesn't attract people, it only drives them out. That's what you know to do, but that's what they don't want by voting today, here in the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u297	Thank you too, my colleague. The reason is now the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr Kamines. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Madam President. I will start with a point of order, however, which is condensing the country's reduced reflexes in recent years to regulate a number of key axes of a strategic planning for legal migration in terms of social integration and a horizon for contributing to the economic development of the country. And this in a country with intense, over the last few decades, migration and refugee profiles. The directive we are called upon to incorporate today was adopted four years ago, in 2016 and had a time horizon for inclusion on May 23, 2018. He left two years of preparation in state legal classes to incorporate it. The directive was part of a draft law by the previous government, it was put into public consultation but only in 2019 and the consultation was completed in the end of April last year. The bill stayed there, posted on the relevant website. He didn't step any further. Today, our country is the last - if I am not mistaken - to incorporate the directive under discussion. The inability to deal with issues that have for years given rise to the status of the legal residence of young students and researchers from third countries has made the country unjustly deterrent to those legitimate migration flows that would enrich the skilled workforce with potential for growth and has kept us in the position of a lasting accounting against our European partners. The state itself has dealt with these people as a temporary one as a matter of course - and then I say what I mean - but at the same time, when its own children, its own scientists, became immigrants in search of better luck, and as long as the years pass, we understand that, they will be drastically reduced and the prospects for returning to the country of many of them, because they will have simply thrown roots, they will have created families in the countries that they have gone to. The directive at issue appeared, since reports on the application of previous Directives incorporated into the Greek legal system had identified some shortcomings, including as regards conditions of admission, rights, procedural guarantees and access for students to the labour market during their studies. An important point of the bill is the general principle that students graduating in Greece should now be able to access the labour market both during their studies and after their studies. I want to give you a practical example, a foreign case, from the time I was in the Citizens' Counselor. It was 2008 and has also been published online, then a foreigner, a third-country citizen had appealed to our independent authority, requesting the renewal of his residence permit in Greece, its change - rather - from a work permit. This is, first of all, still not possible. The person concerned was initially entitled to a residence permit as a former resident foreign child legally residing in the country. He has just grown up on this residence permit as a residence permit for work, while at the same time he has managed to enter a higher education institution. But the two previous permits he held did not allow for the renewal of the residence permit for studies. So he had to leave the country, receive a visa for entry and then apply for a residence permit for studies, which he finally renewed until the end of his studies. However, after the end of the course, no leave for a residence permit was allowed for any legitimate reason. In other words, a young citizen of a third country, legally resident in the country as a minor and later adult worker, when he wanted to study had to go out of the country, enter again and after he finished his studies, he had to leave the country definitively. From the relevant experience of the Citizens' Counselor, the absence of a relevant legislative provision was afflicting both the public administration and the interested party and the settlement of such issues finally left a huge margin of arbitrariness in the administration, which was very often forced either to perform brave interpretations or to accept institutional hearings or in some cases to remain in the letter of the law and to exhaust all this rigour, which we saw in what situations it was driving. This is a typical sample of hundreds, which make up the scene of a distorted immigration policy, which has nothing to do with - especially today - effective and modern models of social integration. Other provisions such as Article 6 which clarify the concept of sufficient resources to be available to students, the evaluation of which is carried out by an individual judgement, shall be taken into account and resources derived from a scholarship or grant. Article 9 increases the hours spent by students a week from ten to fifteen and the arrangements, in the case of students and researchers, show the possibility of granting residence permits to family members as well as other family benefits. Now all of this really can support a positive demographic development in order to ensure the future workforce in the direction of strengthening the country's demographic map. In the same direction, forecasts for a period of 12 months are being initiated, within which the student's holder of a residence permit and a researcher who ended up can look for work. In this period, both to himself and to the members of his family, he can be granted a residence permit. Immigration from third countries, ladies and gentlemen, can be a source of influx of highly qualified people. I am, of course, talking about legal immigration. Students and researchers are the most wanted groups, as they play an important role in the training of human capital and in ensuring smart and sustainable development. Where you used to speak with entrepreneurs or with Greek research institutes and see that there was an overcapacity of people - Greeks, I mean - with high academic qualifications to serve equivalent positions in production or research, I can assure you that today, with all these people who have left the country, the young, there is a huge problem. I spoke the other day to ELIAMEP officials who have told me that in recent years the level of students - rather - graduates, doctors, etc., presented there as candidates for scientific partners is clearly lower than they used to. The directive we are about to incorporate clearly states in the preamble its aims. It sets out the framework to achieve the approximation of national legislation on conditions for the authorisation of entry and residence to third-country nationals, but also invests in promoting people-to-people contacts and mobility and is expected to contribute to dialogue and cooperation between Member States and third countries on issues relating to legal immigration. In the context of the transformation of the modern economy in terms of specialized, targeted and innovative technological services, the maintenance and strengthening of the skilled workforce is an added value for the market. It increases our country's ability to approach new investments and to develop bilateral relations with strategic partners outside the European Union. However, the bill under discussion did not appear appropriate to harmonise the provisions on the employment of in-house unpaid assistants, so-called au-pairs. These provisions are of a voluntary nature. According to the explanatory statement, there is no need for third-country citizens to be invited and hosted in au pair positions in families in our country, and that is why there is no national framework for rules on this. And it refers to characteristics in the explanatory statement. ‘Taking into account the extent of the irregular domestic employment of third-country politicians, possibly including au pairs, would create the conditions for the abuse of immigration legislation and further distortions in the national labour market. I would like to point out that the assumption of an important range of irregular work and the simultaneous assumption of the absolute impossibility to control and eliminate this phenomenon does not exactly legalise the abstention of regulating a situation of au pay, which is widely accepted in Europe and mutually beneficial to both parties. In international literature, more and more, the view is that, with the appropriate conditions for the competence of skilled workers and the modernisation of the operational model, productivity increases and social prosperity are promoted. The design of the Greek state must follow the model of fair growth, take serious account of and fairly share the social consequences that migration brings to all aspects of life, particularly work and industrial relations. We welcome the new legislation, therefore, and we have a series of proposals for its proper and efficient implementation in favour of Greek society and economy. It is an important opportunity for the country to show both inside and abroad that we are not only an area of temporary incarceration of refugees and migrants, but also a place where citizens of third countries can choose for education, work and their permanent establishment and integration for the benefit of these same, but also of Greek society. In particular, I would like to emphasise the policy of the most advanced European countries to attract third-country citizens who are a high-skilled workforce. A country can grow when it actually has demographic growth or when it improves its competitiveness. We are at the moment in terms of improving competitiveness. Let us at least look at how we can improve the demographic problem of the country and as far as we can at least contain the painful effects of Brain Drain in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u299	Thank you very much, Mr President. The floor is now given by the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Synthrakis for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time as the European Union is closing its borders for immigrants and refugees, when at the same time all parties, other than the Communist Party of Greece, agree and implement the obsolete agreement of the European Union - Turkey and the Dublin Regulation which locks in our country refugees and immigrants and while the New Democracy Government is building new prisons of human souls on the islands and floating sea dams, a draft law that makes an anthems to mobility and welcomes the significant increase in the number of workers who declare their intent to relocate, with a view to working abroad. It closes its eyes to the crucial and escalating issue with the thousands of immigrants who are free of paper and cannot stay nor work legally, even though many of them have been working in Greece for many years, nor can they travel to another European Union country because of the Shegen and the Dublin Regulation. Nor am I surprised by this seeming contradiction in the attitude of the European Union as migration is used by the European Union and the governments of the Member States as a tool, as a hindrance that opens or closes, depending on the needs of monopolies for cheap labour. It treats immigrants as underages, as horses looking at them in teeth as a criterion of buying. The draft law aims to adapt the Greek legislation to the malfunctions identified by the European Union, to the application of previous directives, on the mobility of workers and students for study and research purposes. The draft law states that human capital from countries outside the European Union is a source of influx of highly qualified people, such as students and researchers. Both the spirit and the letter of the Euro-Union directives and the explanatory statement show that it is essential that, through improvements in mobility conditions, human capital be a key factor in capitalist development, with a view to improving the extraction of highly qualified workers for the needs of companies from third countries from European monopolies. After all, it is indicative that the German government's study of the German government's pool of thought that Germany will need to attract seventy-seven thousand to five hundred thousand young immigrants from non-European Union Member States every year in order to maintain the present levels of prosperity and economic activity. This draft law attempts to adapt the relevant Greek legislative framework so that Greek businessmen can also enter better in this game. It is therefore clear that our attitude is negative at the outset. Moreover, the strategy of coexistence in the above objectives of all the other parties, predominant to those involved in the governance of the country, is reflected in the chronological order of voting and incorporation of all the directives mentioned in the bill. New Democracy - PASOK, SYRIZA Government, and now the New Democracy Government is rushing to serve these goals of capital. The main aim is to lay down more attractive rules to ensure the competitiveness of enterprises, with the uninterrupted flow of highly qualified people, but with a flexible and cheap workforce for business groups, which will move according to where the entrepreneurs need it each time, to maximise their profitability. Freedom of movement for workers is a key pillar in strengthening the profitability of capital. It is a declared objective of the European Union already since the Maastricht Treaty in 1992. He is embraced and implemented by all governments over time, giving the European Union an oath of faith. So let false tears stop for those who leave Greece for work abroad, for young people, for the minds and minds that leave the country. This objective also serves the EURES network, through services and systems that encourage citizens to move and work within the European Union. To create, in essence, wandering workers within the limits of the European Union, who will work wherever and where capital needs them. This pan-European EURES network at all times also includes apprenticeship and practical placements, including private employment services - are the well-known slave trade offices - which, as intermediaries, rent workers to companies through which every right to work is being violated. Apart from EURES and for workers from third countries, they provide, inter alia, for the hired and unpaid practical exercise of a voluntary service in the name of activities of practical solidarity. You are inviting the Filipino model to in-house unpaid assistants for those who are temporarily hosted by families to improve their language skills and knowledge in the host country, offering in exchange domestic services and childcare, i.e. the definition of wild-farming in the name of acquaintance with the country. For all of these, together with the high skill workforce at the request of business groups, you are recommended to be granted residence permits. The term "mobility" obviously means not only wandering from country to country but also wandering from profession to profession. Consider progress and modern changing at least six to seven occupations in your life. You also consider the private residence for the worker to be an obstacle. As you claim, it creates inhibitors and obstacles to mobility. Current business needs require that a worker move to another occupation or speciality when the employer ceases to need him at the place where he was originally employed. These objectives, ladies and gentlemen, are not irrelevant with the thoughts of reforming the educational system in progress and the further cooperation of university institutions with businesses. Practitioners and trainees, based on the upgraded EURES, either on free work or on wages of crumbs in the name of skills acquisition, will work under terrible conditions to continue to vacate monopolies. The present draft law also reproduces discrimination against service providers as non-workers. The distinction between citizens of the European Union and third-country nationals to facilitate employers is still being made, although it does not give them access to the social welfare system, although in Article 26, completely hypocritical, it mentions equal treatment with nationals, increasing students' maximum working hours, extending the conditions for rejecting requests for residence permits, putting universities in the logic of voluntary work, namely unpaid work and much more. What awaits young workers, tomorrow's working class shift, particularly those who are in training, in the practical exercise they are studying to take the place of their parents in production, seems also from the insurance bill that is due to be submitted by the government to Parliament. Beyond the current pensioners and older workers, youth is at the forefront of this unsafe, reactive reform that is added to the loss of collective agreements, the generalization of labour insecurity, the wandering between half-wage and unemployment. That is why, in particular, the new generation must respond militarily with its massive participation in the strike on the 18th day of the month. It is young workers who, in order to obtain the retirement conditions under the Brutsi-Katrugalou Act, should be working toward the deep old ages. Especially in the new contracts, a new recruit will need fifty-four years of uninterrupted work to even get the basic pension, the "poverty" allowance. The added value, for which they are struggling with the European Union, refers to the draft law both with internal mobility and with mobility from third countries. It is not just the goodwill of capitalists, by exploiting the labour force of those who unleash, by leaving their families, by returning from country to country for a slim cut - and, of course, by doing so too. Searching for an income for survival is the need on which employers are stepping up in each country, offering steadfast wages and uninsured work. They are, in fact, talking about fair mobility, mobility, that is to say, taking place on a voluntary basis. Of course, one wonders how voluntary this is when we talk about workers who have been hit by unemployment, poverty and poverty, because of the capitalist economic crisis we have experienced. With mobility, it is attempting to cultivate in the working people that the European Union is a single labour market, our common home, which offers employment opportunities, as the concept of'sustainable and permanent work' as the right of the European Union and the capitalist system in general which serves, not only does it ensure it in practice, but partial and temporary flexible employment is extended. A common home, however, cannot exist for the working class and the bosses. The job jungle they have built for monopolies will have the millions of workers and unemployed, mainly young people who are now trying to get into production. Of course, we do not overlook the fact that through this process you may be given the opportunity to young people from countries in need of imperialist intervention, the United States, NATO, the European Union, the other imperialist centres in their countries, the intensity of repression and persecution by dictators or types of democratic regimes that enjoy the support of one or other imperialist centre. We are practically in solidarity with these people, supporting the struggles of the people's movements in their countries, supporting their struggle as part of the working class and in the host countries, resolutely fighting against any racist, xenophobic discrimination against them. The position of the Communist Party of Greece is unresolved as long as the possibilities of developing science and research through their work and highly qualified workers of scientists remain at the forefront of the appetites and hierarchies of the monopolistic groups, thus distorting the intensity of the exploitation of their work, which helps to halt the prospect of satisfying modern social needs. The European Union, the structure of European capitalism, does not take a retreat. It's only overthrowing. That is why the only philosophical outlet is the struggle of the working class and the other poor people's strata in our country, in other countries to claim and demand what they truly belong to, in our country to recover the losses of all previous years in the name of the capitalist crisis and the national affair, all to contribute to its overcoming, and, above all, to satisfying modern needs. But that requires another socio-economic system. It presupposes popular power by socialising the concentrated means of production, central planning and labour control. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u301	I too, Mr Colleague, thank you very much. The reason is now the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr. Mylonakis. You have the floor for 15 minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are sincerely sorry - and I say this to all the sides of this House - because it is used to the national Parliament not to work. It is shameful to be in such a serious bill and to be here five people, five nomadic. I see and I am delighted, indeed, because the Greek Parliamentary Group is aggregated here. I do not know, Mr Voutsi - you have also made the President of Parliament - if this situation was years or suddenly. I think that needs to be improved. Not here, Mr. Kumoutsakos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u303	The Minister must come.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u304	All right, Mr President, that's how it was, and that's how it's going to be. The Minister will be here, too. You have eaten, gentlemen of the New Democracy, to bring urgent bills. In 2016- be careful, Mrs Aegeris - this directive has come. In 2018, it expires. SYRIZA hasn't done anything. In 2018-2019, SYRIZA does nothing. Since July 2019, Minister, until now, the New Democracy has done nothing. And, suddenly, although you know very well that there was no Ministry of Immigration in October that was discussed in committee, you insist that you bring it and vote on it. In short, of course, the New Democracy Parliamentary Group will vote on this. What I do not like is this blackmail: 'Or we pass it or we eat a fine'. This work is done all the time. We're late and then we're fined. At the same time, Minister, where the Greek society boils, as Minister of Migration now and as the Ministry of Civil Protection, bring one bill after another, which aims to fill immigrants, illegal immigrants. Or do you think that the directive of the European Union has become accidental? Mrs. Augeris and Mr. Synthrakis said so. The minds are good for them. And the rest of you, where are they going? They're going to Greece, to the soul warehouse. Today, you must know that the committee debated the ratification of the Agreement between the Greek Government and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the relaunch of migrants. I mean, it's a gateway to Greece. Minister, I'm telling you, because you're now and you're interested. He left from 2015 to 2017 enough people and went to North and Central Europe. And, all of a sudden, because the German-State European Union wants to close the borders and get those who are not good-minded - because those who wanted to keep them - and bring them back. We must also vote for what directive German-led Europe brings us to receive those illegal immigrants who left Greece, crossed the border before they closed down and went to Central and Northern Europe. Now, we need to get them back. Where should we put them? It's - it says - Greece's first host country. Why don't you react? I ask you: is Greece a first host country or Turkey? So we go through the message - and because the European Union likes it - 'Greek first country', that is to say, the islands. So all those who are relaunching - that is what we signed today, we did not vote for it by New Democracy - will all come back. That's great! There is something like that today. They take those countries who want, the good minds - supposedly - the scientists, who will specialize in research, etc., and work in the large multinationals. What about us? You're going to stay what you said, Mr. Synergy. The slaves will stay. Because they're slaves. Ideally, Mr. Chairman of the majority, you have not spoken at all of slaves whom this bill has. Is it possible for the European Union to pass a directive and want people to do voluntary work? Have you seen many people in the world being slaves without being paid? Unless you haven't read the bill. That's what he's talking about. He talks about voluntary work and non-governmental organisations that come to our country and bring people here who do social work. You know, social work means criminals are coming out of prison and doing social work, joining a NGOs and coming to Greece. Because the NGO takes them together. Of course, NGOs say they pay a hundred and work like four hundred dogs. The rest of the people who take a scumbag tells them "successful work". While the funds fill the pockets. This job is done. Minister, I am not mistaken because I believe that no sensible person can pass this directive. However, because the European Union has brought it to us, we in Germany must say 'yes' again to what Germany likes, which, at the moment, our country from Turkey is in danger of supplying it with weapons. It helps her make weapon systems. At the moment, he sends us back letters - yesterday, we had a National Council at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - that he does not agree to talk again about German allowances. So we should send a letter back. At the same time, the American comes and is sad, because they were killed in Idlib and Syria that Assad is fighting for his country. They killed - it says - the Syrian troops eight, ten, fifteen, forty Turks, what has gone there. At the same time, a Syrian division. He's a general down and a hundred twenty officers and five and a half thousand soldiers. These aren't mine. That's gonna be official I'm telling you. And we sit down and hear what the American guy, who has taken everything away from us here and has given us nothing. One, she caressssssing Greece a little on the head. But it comes and helps Turkey. Germany comes and says: "Yes, Greece has done its duty", "The poor refugees" etc. Now, when he sees that there is a problem with you he says, "Take the bad guys, take the servants, take them all back, and I hold five, ten heads." Because that's what he's done so far. But you brought them to us to vote. For population movements it makes this bill. I'll tell you one more thing: I entered the School of Hope in 1976. Since 1960, Mr Synergykis, there have been foreign officers from third countries studying here. You know that, too. The right hand, the head of the naval forces, Haffar studied in Greece. Gaddafi's the same. We've been talking about this for years. There's this bill. The law was there. Nationals from third countries come here, where they study and participate in the investigation. If they want to keep working, we didn't have to put in a new directive. But here, we are talking about movements of people, who leave via Turkey, come to our home country, we are no longer letting them go to Central and Northern Europe and we are going to bathe them all. In other words, with what the European Union does and with the directives that the European Union brings, we will in the end have two million illegal immigrants here who will have to put them in jobs or voluntary work for free. If anyone can believe that no one's working for free. So this bill is very suspicious, ladies and gentlemen. We must stop talking about students from third-country nationals. That law existed, there is, and there will be. There are other motives here. Voluntary work, residence permit, family reunion: Be careful to see here, how the sweet binds. We have voluntary work. Here comes the illegal immigrant. I don't pay him, and I've been digging all day. At the same time, we're giving permission to stay. "Get your family inside." Very nice things. So the New Democracy Government is coming, a government that said it would dismantle the islands, send illegal immigrants to their countries, send back those who have to Turkey and do nothing. You don't have a plan. You're changing. You're shutting down ministries. You're building ministries. You're coming to see that he's got to be in charge. He's changing the head. Until you took over the hot potato and see where the boat will take you. And if it's a plastic boat, and there's no driver in there, it will sink you and nobody will be found to save you. No, nothing else I'm telling you about. We are shouting because fairy tales must end and be heard in here. Apart from New Democracy and the Change Movement, I believe that no one else will vote for this bill. That's not a bill. It's not a directive. That's a mock. He's talking about NGOs here. The European Union wants cheap workers' hands or cheap employees' hands. Does it want this to reduce unemployment in Greece? They are leaving, ladies and gentlemen, as we have Brain Drain - there is no worse thing - the good Greek minds and go out and we will accept all this world that has entered Europe in various ways. All these took through Greece through various procedures - oil and oil - the granting of one year or the provision of three years. Others had post-traumatic stress, fragility and came in. All of them where are you taking them? What will people do to them? The Greek is hungry, has no job, takes 400 euros to live and we have the other one - he says - voluntary work and then he needs to find work from studies, etc. Who are you kidding? What are you talking about? What's this? It's not going - it says - the Greek in the fields is working. How's it going to work in the fields? After we have now found ourselves taking the Pakistani, giving them a piece of bread, giving them 10 euros a day. Does the Greek go to work like this? We had immigration in 1990. A million from the Albanian population came here. They're in. Slowly started business. With the work others built homes, others made the money in Albania, and Greek remained. But, apart from that, the worst part is that all foreign nationals from third countries will have homes in Greece except the Greeks. The Greeks will be outside the houses and beg to find a little house. And the government says: "Bravo, we will give him a allowance to pay the rent for a year." How much is the allowance? 150 euros. Can you find a house with 150 euros? I want to understand, in other words, what help this is in the world, in the Greek. But you're more interested in foreigners than only foreigners. It must be understood by all, ladies and gentlemen, that this directive incorporated into Law 4251/2014 does not take into account the parameters and specificities of our country. It was designed by Berlin, and it obviously concerns countries which have a population of - not 10 million -30, 40, 50, 60, 80 million and more. In small Greece they don't fit. In conclusion, I would like to stress that it is a turtlebouki bill. It starts inside to say about postgraduate, graduates, research and ends up in NGOs, fake voluntary work - the most it can find the mind of man - job find. He just wants to reduce Greek's share. That is what the European Union wants, and that is what Germany's Europe wants. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Solution will vote against the bill and calls on the Government to adapt the European Union directives to our country's measures and not to Germany's measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u305	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and two educational attendances from the Drama Music Gymnasium. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The floor is now given by the Special Rapporteur of Mera25 Mr. Fotini Bakakadam for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u306	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a draft law which entered the committee responsible in mid-October - on 15 October, if I am not mistaken - with a recommendation from the Minister for Civil Protection, which then had the powers of immigration as his own. Since then we have seen an interesting sequence of events: the creation of the position of a National Coordinator for Refugee, a position taken by the Deputy Minister of National Defence, and the re-establishment of the repealed Ministry of Migration Policy, now called Migration and Asylum, and now brings the bill under discussion in plenary. It does not matter, ladies and gentlemen, that the refugee - immigration - has emerged in a huge humanitarian crisis in our century, and it is time that all the necessary steps are taken to find a holistic solution that will reconcile the European Union's assistance with domestic legislative moves in the care and integration of refugees, but also to improve the situation for our fellow citizens, who live in areas that have suffered most flows and have been faced with hundreds of painful people, people who come to our country asking for care and assistance. We must recognise that all our fellow citizens who live in these areas have been in solidarity so far with all the people who have arrived in our country asking for a better tomorrow. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] However, today we are not discussing refugee, although it would soon be worth having a more extensive and detailed debate on the subject. By passing now on to today's draft law - and you will understand where my initial introduction is due. The aim of this draft law is to incorporate into our country's legislation the European Directive 801/2016 on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals in Greece for research, studies, practice, voluntary service, exchange of pupils or educational programmes and the employment of in-house unpaid assistants. Although the title mentions the employment of unpaid assistants who, in particular, provide child or elderly care services - when it comes to children, read it in exchange for housing and food and in very few cases for a genuinely symbolic wage - in the body of the bill, we do not see any mention being made, on the grounds that it is not a way of working known and developed in our country, as it is not often noted that third-country nationals who are hosted by families with unpaid internal assistant services are not often taken into account. In addition, as stated in the draft law, the provision and legislation on the issue of au pair assistants could cultivate fertile ground and appropriate conditions to abuse employers' rights relating to immigration and further distortions in the labour market of the country, which would lead to the circumvention of workers’ working acquired rights. We are talking about acquired rights which have already been legally violated by several governments in our country. Nevertheless, we think that this should be the case, as it is part of the directive which the government wants to incorporate and we live on the one hand in a rapidly developing society of the 20th century which is constantly emerging new needs and new data on the other, but on the other hand, the institution of au pair assistants is extremely widespread abroad. Therefore, it is not difficult to come to Greece soon too. So wouldn't it be better to provide legislation than to run then to fill gaps by retrospective legislation? We can say that, in general, we are talking about a draft law which regulates and aims to facilitate the stay of persons mentioned in it, since it describes and introduces a clearer framework of guidelines to be followed in order to allow a third-country national a residence permit. However, what really caused us to wonder and could only make us show it today is that this draft law, although it also bears signatures from the appropriate ministers, was initially tabled as a bill of the Ministry of Civil Protection, Migration and Asylum today, and it concerns clearly students and workers from third countries. It was not introduced either by the Ministry of Labour or by the Ministry of Education as it should. This is something that gives us the conviction that, while it relates to students and workers, these students and workers and also to researchers, they are considered by the Government of immigrants and, indeed, not even refugees - although for us, there is no separation - and therefore they should be treated as dangerous, and Greece should be protected. That's why it's introduced by the Citizen's Department. We consider this to be inadmissible from the outset, and that is why we can only vote against the bill. In passing, however, in some details of the draft law, a point which has also drawn our attention is Article 7, namely paragraph 3c thereof, according to which "the student who holds a residence permit with a duration equal to the maximum duration of his training programme must submit to the competent department of the relevant decentralised administration every two years a certificate of registration and participation in the examinations issued by the educational institution concerned, as well as a certificate of analytical qualification for the same period from which the general progress or detailed progress report from a competent body in the event of postgraduate studies or doctoral dissertation can be demonstrated. In the event of failure to fulfil this obligation within two months of the date of the expiry of the two-year period following the issue of the residence permit, the latter shall be withdrawn and the student shall immediately leave the Greek territory.’ But - and this is precisely the problem - of demonstrating progress in maintaining the residence permit for a third-country national, it refers not only to Article 7 but to other times within the legislation under discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot but ask ourselves how a student's progress will be assessed. On what criteria will it be determined whether or not to achieve it, so that it can maintain its licence so that it can remain in Greece to continue its studies? We are also wondering why this distinction between students, with students from third countries being regarded as children - let me the expression - of a lower god. Why do we not imagine applying or going to apply a corresponding provision concerning students in our country and coming from other European countries? Nor, firstly, that many young Greeks have left Greece to follow their studies abroad, and secondly, with the firm conviction that all children are equal and must have equal opportunities in learning, we do not believe that none of us would want to see Greek students become the subject of such legislation. Turning now to progress, one sees that despite frequent references to the concept and even though there is a comprehensive reference and analysis of terms in relation to it, there is no mention, as I said before, of how this progress can be made, which would ultimately give 'green light' to students and researchers for their stay in our country. If, in fact, we combine this provision with the duration of the studies of Greek students, which, according to the recent Act - on 15/10, had been discussed but continues to be recent - it cannot exceed two years from the number of years provided for by the course of study, it can easily be concluded that we are submitting foreign students to a particularly hard assessment, taking into account the fact that the examinations that students are required to give in Greek will be a truly difficult language to learn about a foreigner, even though it is not only one to learn and use it to serve it in their daily life, but to succeed in following a graduate or postgraduate study and to maintain a good academic course, taking note of the'reasonable progress' we are currently doing so that it remains in Greece. Another article I would like to mention, by closing, is Article 13, namely paragraph 2 thereof, which describes the organisations to be financed by Greek public bodies and to receive volunteer workers. Unfortunately, from the way this provision has been formulated, it is not understandable what these bodies will be, and how it will be possible to select who will be financed. Thereafter, we can only maintain and express our reservations about the kind and the aims that will ultimately be served by the agencies concerned, as well as the rules governing their operation. In conclusion, as I said, ladies and gentlemen, Merra25 can only vote against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u307	Thank you to Mrs Bakadima, in which the circle of rapporteurs and special speakers has been completed. We shall proceed to the list of speakers. As you know, two fellow Members have been registered as spokesmen with Mr Hetas first from the Greek Solution that we call on the Stepma. Mr Boubas will be followed, then the Minister will speak, and then the Minister will start with the circle of parliamentary representatives. They have already stated two intentions to speak, Mrs Xenogiannakopoulou and Mr Viliardos. Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u308	Thank you very much, Mr President. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that I feel strange, I have mixed feelings today. I don't know, or we have a different perception of the importance of the bill issues - what we have to discuss and vote in this Chamber - or everyone else has a different understanding. In fact, I think that today's call for debate and vote is very important, especially in the very difficult and very bad and dangerous - I will say - for our country in times of life. I do not know, I think the title 'third-country nationals for studies, development, research and technology' is the diving point, what we say is that we cover it and from the back there are other important, very difficult and very dangerous issues that Mylonis developed in the past. I cannot help talking, Minister - and I will tell you, do you want to take it on an educational basis? - these children of third countries, who are nationals, will come and the others will come. Can I tell you something? I cannot help thinking about the decision of the Council of State, Mrs Sakellaropoulou, the new President of the Republic, to eliminate the development of a religious conscience at school. I cannot help talking about this decision and not talk about the Greeks listening to it today. With the boulder of the Council of State, therefore, the removal of the development of religious consciousness at school. So we will cultivate national conscience, but to God! - away from the development of religious conscience. It is wrong and dangerous and we are always so far removed from anything that reminds us of our religion. We forget that Greece and Orthodoxy are indiscriminate concepts. Of course, as you do, we will soon - and I will end up somewhere else - in our schools in outrageous Greece, Minister, we will have Greeks who will not learn religiously. And now I'm going to report, because - listen a little - it's a circle, we're surrounded. See a little, watch the circle that I'll describe now: Mayor Jasmos Rodopi's statements, Oder Moomin's. We're talking about mayor - going crazy! - citizens of Greece and declare that this citizen of Greece his faith in the mother Turkey and we fly eagle, and hope in the union with the neighbors on the other side of the Aegean! It's said by the mayor, that is, we're walking on very dangerous paths and we don't understand or we don't understand how we don't understand. They are the statements by Mayor Jasmou Rodopi, Oder Mumin, who declares faith in the mother Turkey and we whistle indifferently! Here's what's happening now: East we lose the islands, we have a population replacement - see the circle I'm telling you - take our islands, Chios, Leros, Lesvos. We lost that! Now let's go to Thrace and see what's going on. We sold Macedonia on the same day, yesterday, Turkey's Foreign Minister, Kumucako, Tsavusoglu, went to Albania and said 'I came to the sister country of Albania' yesterday. They're starting to circle us. That's all circles. In Thrace, Albania, the Turk, claims the Aegean, population replacement on the islands. All this is happening around us. For Christ's sake! The fanaticism and the resentment of all his majesty! And should I tell you something else to go back to education? I'm going to report the results. I'm putting it all together in the Minutes. Rather not, take the decision of the Council of State which vindicates Mr Gavroglou for religious conscience. I'm filing it in the Minutes. Take the Mayor's statements: 'My vision to embrace mother home'. Here, for the briefing of all Members. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are now going to the results of PISA 2018 on the level of perception of Greek students in public and private schools, which says that, unfortunately, it is too low. In the three main courses of language, mathematical and scientific skills Greeks are far behind. I put this in the Minutes too so that you can see it and the Greek people can hear it. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am now returning to the bill that speaks of the entry of third-country nationals for voluntary work. That is not enough, in other words, where all these illegal immigrants have been plucked down, we are now trying to find a way, as Europe of course imposes on us, to put them in legal means and voluntary work. What's it doing for a youth in the tiles? It's the NGOs. I am really surprised at all this, ladies and gentlemen. See how unwilling all this is, boy. Because it bothers you so much what reminds Greece. We're all over the place. But what can we expect, when at the same time there are people who served the Greek people in this sacred space of the National Representation, when at the same time we have representatives in here, Mr Kumucaco, who dare to compare - dare and are not ashamed to serve here - the Greeks of Asia Minor with illegal immigrants? This audacity had Mr. Kourublis of SYRIZA, PASOK - from wherever he went - to do what he did yesterday and goes out on radios today and tries to collect uncomfortables. Shame to compare the Greeks of Asia Minor to the illegal immigrants, these illegal immigrants who have pilgrimized us here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Here are the reactions - and I close with this - to the Kourublis statement comparing the Greeks of Asia Minor with the illegal immigrants who have filled Greece. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You will be informed, ladies and gentlemen, that at 12 noon in the center of Athens, on the street Menandros and Sapphi, Mr Koumoutsakos, there was a blood massacre. There was bloodshed, and we had dead and injured, when Afghans and Pakistanis were beaten and killed with each other. This was done just now, among those selling cigarettes and those who went to control the area. Protection was sold by cigarettes and slaughtered. We had dead Afghans and Pakistanis, those who you call 'immigrants' and'refugees'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u309	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Loverdos, who is a parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, has asked for the floor because he cannot attend the sitting later when he could speak because of his obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u310	Because of a parliamentary meeting, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u311	I imagine, therefore, that there is no objection from this House to Mr Loverdos taking the lead. Then we will continue properly and will be given the floor by Mr Boubas, the Minister and the other parliamentary representatives. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u312	Thank you very much for your understanding, ladies and gentlemen, but I do have a real problem. I heard the first three rapporteurs, but then I had to leave. I shall shortly be taking part in our meeting on foreign policy matters. In communication policy, they say that when on a subject you say a hundred times, there will also be a citizen who will hear it one. With the years that pass and with the experience I have, I see that this also comes into force in the House. If you make an observation about the sanctions and ratification of international agreements or the transposition of directives into Greek law three hundred times, a government can get together. Mr. Kumucaco, with the SYRIZA government - ANEL I was at war for four and a half years. But I never failed to point out anything good when it was there. I remember, I always praise one of the ministers of that government, with whom I had a daily controversy, Mr Panos Kammenos, for having brought together his ministry with regard to the sanctions for all contracts that have been delaying for 15 years. Yesterday, we had a critical convention, the Minamata Convention, on mercury issues, which was late to be ratified around seven, eight years, so that Greece would lose the opportunity to be the first to ratify it. Tuesday we talked about this. So I asked the then State Secretary - in your place, Minister - to inform the Government of this situation. Of course, when he made his position, he didn't think it was appropriate to answer me. You, however, are a diplomat and you know very well how badly the lack of 'confidence' may be. I say this with a neology - as far as the ratification and ratification by Greece of international treaties is concerned, or the application of the directives that the country has approved, but which have not been transposed within it, as has to be done in the directives so that they are immediately applicable. This is a point I make in the first place and I urge you to inform your colleagues - those who have stored such loose ends - of bringing them to the House for ratification and then ratification by the President of the Republic. We are talking about legal immigration. The question that is being asked to those who buy using the term in the directive is to tell us what is the opposite to legality. They look and feel awkward. But, before I come to the point, I should like to make a general comment on the issue of immigration. After eight months, we have a government probe of the subject, a government cowardly to say even what it does and is in the right direction, such as cooperation between the Armed Forces and the Police - I said it about you - a government that proved unprepared and confessed - abolished the Ministry of Migration and created it again - a government with five co-legislators, who even have not understood what their responsibilities are. The issue raised today by Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou and we passed it sweetly is very serious as to whether she raises a matter of the external formal constitutionality of the law. Don't repeat the term. The Minister who is responsible today and has the right to sign is not the signatory and is not included in the signatories. Mr Kamines is right to say: 'But here we have brought amendments of two hundred pages, and we have passed them and now we are sitting here looking?' Yeah. However, the subject of the amendments is a matter of interna corporis of Parliament. The question of who exercises a legislative initiative may be understood - I am not sure - and as a matter of the external formal constitutionality of the law. However, at political level, it legalises my argument that slut no longer has a limit. Such a big and serious issue cannot be dealt with with with sloppy. He wants a plan, he wants an opinion, he wants a courage, he wants a real government. On the other hand, it is truly unpleasant to hear a Civic Opposition that has ruled over four years, to tell you here a number of things that are supposedly emotive, but that you know very well how much hypocrisy they have been hiding inside of them when you look at Moria as she was delivered. This is not a serious attitude of the first and second parties in the House, when we have to deal with a matter of foreign policy, of Greek-Turkish relations and, in this regard, of European dimensions. There is a need for seriousness, clear positions and shocks. Instead of seeing them, colleagues in the media, saying their long and short, as if there were no world in the five big who live the problem, as if there were no other Greeks, and sometimes as if the eleven million Greeks were not concerned, we should not care about them, as if we were not aware that we were National Representation here and not a non-governmental organisation. We're a National Representation, which means we're representing eleven million citizens. If the people feel that we don't protect him, he looks elsewhere. He usually looks at anti-democratic, Minister and honourable Members of the Officerial Response. Finally, I listen to the debate on the draft law on arguments - I heard them today, I did not notice them very much, but I read them - regarding the meetings of the Standing Committee. We are now talking about legal immigration and introductorys, in its first paragraph, are recording us on what issues, in which cases people refer to the specific regulations, which are amending. There are instructions, there is implementing Greek legislation and they are amended, they are improved. There is also the category of studies in these categories. So I hear the Civic Opposition with an MEP saying that Greek universities are not attractive because of the language. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know what to do, I do not know how to react. I am outdated by the fact that I was the Minister of Education, which allowed the establishment of foreign-language departments in the Greek universities for foreign students, outside the European Union with tuition fees and in English and took over by the lighters of the government of SYRIZA, namely Mr Baltas - Professor of the Polytechnic, in fact - and stopped them by a presidential decree ready for the Democritus University of Thrace, where he had prepared studies in Greek letters intended for foreigners, outside the European Union and with English teaching language. Then other ministers came and only at the end, when they left, they gave an permission to the University of Athens to do this, and I don't know if this department is still working. When they left! So they wanted four and a half years to understand and come and speak in this Chamber! Why am I getting excited about this? Because, I count how many students we would have now if they had operated the four sections we wanted. They wanted the universities in Crete, in Rhodes for tourist studies, in Democritus, the Kapodistrian was delaying, but that was also willing! Every little bit and a little bit of a college got into the prom. He had, of course, to overcome the nuisances of the past, if that could extend to Greek students, things that the law and the Constitution forbid them. What are they coming to tell us now? They don't have a recent memory. But the loss of recent memory hurts the one who talks mostly. Now, I read Mr. Kamine very carefully. It makes a few remarks. Minister, I have experienced, as a lawyer, the question of the sequence of permits. My colleague assures me you're solving this. However, I am telling you that, at the moment we are talking about, the problem of the sequence or parallelity of licences is from bureaucracy unresolved. As long as your regulation solves it, you should note what will happen in practice, because the official called to sign, especially the official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs abroad with everything he has in mind and as a past right and left, is incarcerated. This is where the relevant market - because it is also a market - is the sector concerned, to say it more accurately, to become very serious and to understand that it is of the best interest to the country to have this mobility. In the case of trainees, you say that the quota will also be provided for and the regulatory instrument will also be inserted. Mr. Kamine, I don't understand how they're going to do this, because that's being circumvented in practice. You were right to say that the control mechanisms are very limited. Here, you need a Labour Inspectorate. You have tourist prefectures with an employee, with a car without oil. How are you gonna find him? The regulation is good, especially when it is transferred from the European Union. So, for what you have raised as a very serious problem, there may be a principle of resolution, but I am skeptical. In any case, however, no one would say that. You have also rightly raised the issue of domestic assistants. That's right. I think that's what we need to see in practice how it works. I am obviously saying this, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, not to express a negative opinion, but to accompany my positive opinion with appropriate remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. We will give the floor to the Minister, because he wants to table some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u314	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just gonna need a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u315	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u316	The text of the legislative improvements to the draft law, which we are debating today, is being submitted to the National Representation, which solves all these issues, which have already been mentioned. There's no cause for concern. Everything is in institutional order. I'm making the legislative improvements to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u317	Good. You're filing it to be distributed to the parties. Mr. Boobas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u318	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since Mr Loverdos is here shortly before he leaves, I would like to say something to him. You have made an effort for foreign-language universities, as you said. Just what we have to say is that there are so many decades of statistics in the Greek universities that I asked of no one how many foreigners are in Greece, from which countries are coming and what the schools of their choice are. This could be a useful tool for us to know what these countries are, friends who are close to Greece in the sense of university knowledge, who prefer Greece and which schools they prefer. It will be a good tool, to see where our education goes, how we can evaluate our own universities for future generations. Where, then, can we attract foreign students? For the School of Hope, Icars and Naval Testimonials that made a report like myself, MP Antonis Mylonakis is absolutely right. In fact, I can say that the late Andreas Papandreou had made a right move to train here Palestinian and Arab officers, to give an answer and to keep them a little opposite. Ladies and gentlemen, I could make a quick flashback - using the Anglo-Saxon term - since the New Democracy wanted to bring the final state. However, it was only an end to the state because, instead of having a strong self-government, we have a heterogeneous government, as it abolished the incompatibility to the first degree, it left it to the second and gave it powers, for example, the Committee on Quality of Life. There was a foggy situation in terms of how self-government would function, in order to produce results, since it said that it would give the diplomas to over-aged people, because the public services are under-represented! As if this is a political argument, a government that runs a state 'because it is subordinated of the state, I will give the diplomas to over-aged people, because I cannot time to get them', but it will do so, as promised, in nine months' time. It abolished legal science, because it is a crime that the Ombudsman is a non-legislative person. Today that we expect foreigners to come from third countries for research, many of our lawyers, children of our own, will leave abroad because we have not supported their own science. We were shouting as a Greek Solution for African swine fever and for some European Union rules that we could block in relation to imports into agricultural products to help our own primary sector, but no government has heard us. We are continuing with some of the amendments that come at the last minute. We re-established a Ministry of Migration Policy. We need to know something. Greece as a state and history is a coastal state and most of all it relies on islanders. It is based on islands that hold and guard Thermopylae and have the flame of Hellenism. Today, our islands are suffering. People really suffer from all poachers, who come without papers, without evidence. I would now like to refer to this bill. I will take you, ladies and gentlemen, in October 1999. Minister, I would like us to enter the 'TAMPERE 1999' directive in how this European Union programme is provided for in the exchange of views, knowledge and scientists, who then reacted to the United Kingdom, Ireland and Denmark, which had reservations. So if we go to the articles, ladies and gentlemen, and in particular to Article 6 and Article 8 from 'TAMPERE 1999', we cannot accept them here. It is not all the European Union's fault. Not that the European Union has no sins to God! Only economic union is, in our words, not a social union. But we can put a stop. Greece may prevent third-country nationals from coming, taking into account their working life, unemployment rates and, in addition to grounds for national security, it may invoke other reasons by harmonising this whole situation with the existing circumstances. I ask: what are we going to do with the unemployment indicators, where is so-called epidermal - surface unemployment? You know, in a few hours, we'll talk about work. Today a man is considered to be working three and four hours of work a week, with the so-called part time. Works at supermarkets for eight hours, declared for four or two days, and considered as an employee. If that's possible! This is the so-called superficial, black, elastic work. So, what working conditions are we talking about in Greece, to come people in the name of knowledge and science towards a Europe that has the Horizon 2020 programme? So go on and see about innovation, science and technology how the European Union finances these exchanges of nationals from third countries. Greece can therefore put barriers: How long the research will be, how long will the research be, if a researcher speaks English-language entirely from a third country, can impose on him a specific address, a specific genealogical tree, from where he holds his shell, which we say in the categorised and specific terms and rules to state his address and the exact time of the investigation. As a Greek Solution, we asked Mrs Kerameos - who brought the evaluation to universities, and the funding of research will be made by 80% on the basis of objective criteria and 20% on the basis of the evaluation - if the Government of New Democracy commits that all the research by university institutions will come to light and be made public, so that the Greek people and the Greek taxpayer will also know how much he will pay for the investigations. How, then, we will know, gentlemen of the government, when all those who come here for investigations will complete the investigation. We'll never know. There's no law imposed by investigations to be in the light of publicity. Many academics have protested. Should I call on Mr. Kuretta again? There was an integrated investigation into antioxidant foods and was never made public. That'll be a tool to know how long they'll be coming. Let's go a little bit to the NGOs, these infamous non-governmental organizations. Mr Villardos, who is excellent in finance, knows that today a small and medium-sized enterprise is considered to be small and medium-sized if it employs up to two hundred and fifty employees, with a turnover that can reach some million euros. On the contrary, do you know that MKOs can, with simple books of revenue and expenses, manage up to 1 million euros? I'm thinking about it. Do you also know that they can manage from 2020 European programmes that talk about clean green energy? That's the money. So go in and see why the New Democracy has not yet brought a balance sheet, but a plan for so-called agri-foodstuffs, and the money will be provided by 2027 from the Corporate Compact for the Development Framework. The NGO therefore receives funds from the European Social Fund for so-called green renewable energy. I am simply putting this as a reflection, because there are many'successors' there. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we can put a stop to all those who are coming. It gives us the right for the European Union to harmonise the existing living conditions and demand that all those who come, those who accept, although at the moment it is not the right time, be controlled and indeed at a certain time. Finally, as we talked about the ratification of the NATO Treaty and of the European Union, I would like to denounce that with the back of the European Union and the tolerance of NATO, some time ago, they were transferred to the pseudo-state of shame, to the occupied Cyprus forty-four of a battle 'Leopard 2 A4'. They've shielded the occupied ones. That's why sultan Erdogan is coming out and says "when we solve the Cyprus issue, we're going to reconstruct". It has been tampered with, ladies and gentlemen, because it went ahead with the Barbaros and with a transport, with the tolerance of Germany and NATO, a forty-five German tanks of 'Leopard 2 A4' were carried to the Occupied Territories. To give general consideration to what Europe and what NATO we are talking about. We have, as Greece, the solitude syndrome of the crowd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u319	The Deputy Minister for Immigration and Asylum has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. Incorporated in Greek Law today by the Greek Parliament, a directive concerning the legal entry and short stay of citizens of third countries on Greek territory, for the purpose of study, research, voluntary service and practical exercise. We must incorporate this directive. Not because nobody's blackmailing anyone. The unpleasant reality is that if we don't do it there will be a penalty in the country and very serious fines. On the occasion of a clear directive, which does not at all concern illegal immigration, which concerns only legal entry, namely the Greek consular posts and the other services when they come here with the permission to stay, and the short stay in the country, there is an opportunity for a debate without the edge, middle and end. There has been an opportunity to hear the inhumane practices of capitalism for human exploitation by humans, for cruel and condemnable behaviours towards immigrants and refugees. There was an opportunity to discuss when the right decision was to establish the Ministry of Migration Policy. On this occasion, the risk of the nation being lost was discussed and mentioned. We talked about Syria. We talked about the country's strategic encirculation. Even environmental issues have been heard. I wonder: When Greek citizens hear us discussing this issue, this very specific subject and under the very pressing need to avoid a fine for the country and hear such a debate, do you think that we are gaining their trust? A Greek citizen who attended today's debate says that "those who have been elected there who represent me are doing their job well," or he will say that "there are only very critical communication needs of the moment". This directive has either taken place on an unfounded charge against the Government that it pursues an inhuman immigration policy or - on the same policy, please! - that we practice a policy of losing the nation. How can it be that the same policy can be inhuman and, at the same time, in favour of refugees and immigrants, at risk of the nation and of Hellenism? So you realise that there is a huge, not just divisive debate in this debate at the outset, but a schizophrenic criticism of the government. For the same thing we hear completely different criticisms. Either that we are in favour of immigrants or that we are against immigrants. For the same policy! This, on the occasion of a directive, which we are the last country of the European Union, which we have not incorporated. Of course, a little discussion was held about the contents of the bill. More has been the political debate. For the contents of the bill and the need to integrate the directive, the majority rapporteur spoke fully, extensively and precisely, and he did not need to repeat his proper, documentary and detailed arguments. I would just like to point out something about its openness, because it has also become a political argument, and it has even been heard that we do not believe this directive, that we are bringing it as a vulnerability because we have been delayed for four months. Who's saying that? Those who have been with it since 2016 without ratifying it. If you think we're doing three months of strings, you're the ones who've had three years of strings. Be careful of what you say, because these same arguments are directed against you. Did you do English that you did not bring this directive to the Greek Parliament and incorporate it into domestic law? It was not surprising, therefore, that the text of a directive, with which the vast majority of the Greeks agree, was made an opportunity for a wide-ranging political debate and debate. This debate cannot be closed without answering some of the political arguments, political targets and, above all, the deformities which have been heard from both the left and the right. As far as Civic Opposition is concerned, and what has not been heard! That the new centres are prisons, that we will imprison people, that we are basically the reason why the number of flows has increased, that we have made huge mistakes, that with our policy we are actually turning against the inhabitants of the border islands. That's all on one side. On the other hand, it has been heard that we have been conducting a policy which will lead to the alteration of the Greek population, to the alteration of our culture, to our religion, to which I am sure you believe that for three thousand years we have been here and will be for another three thousand years. Do not worry so much, do not worry so much, do not invest so much in the fear and terror of the Greeks, because the Greeks have absolute confidence in the strength of their identity, their historical course and their democracy. So let's go to some of these, said by SYRIZA. They have a memory loss. Immigration story stops for them when we take over. There's no before that, there's only after that, after July. Let's see what we've received. We have received overcrowded in an inhuman manner and the situation of reception and identification centres, a threefold population - that is the truth - we have received a looseline of almost eighty thousand applications, we have received almost zero returns and, above all, we have received a system that is closed in terms of outputs and open in terms of flows. All this construction yours. Of course, inspired interests around the history of immigration, rooted well. We have therefore taken a wrong, distorting, inefficient tool in our hands to manage - that is what you delivered - the migratory challenge. Not ten days after the new government takes office, a dramatic rise in immigration flows into Turkey from Turkey to Greece begins, as a result of specific Turkish choices to manage their own issue, but clearly integrated into their geopolitical objectives and objectives, which we see develop on all fronts. So, in your criticism, you come and say, "Have you seen where the numbers went up? Have you seen where mismanagement is going?" You blame the Greek Government and never all these months you told us nothing about how this increase in numbers took place. You never mentioned that some people triggered this increase. Your criticism is focused on the Greek Government, but not even a single word about Turkey's manipulative immigration policy! Only because that is of interest to you to say that it is the Greek Government's fault. I'm not saying it was all perfect. There have been flaws, delays, but these are due to the fact that we had a distorted tool in our hands - what you have created - to manage a real crisis that suddenly started from the second 10th of July and reached the peak by October. That's the reality, I'm not saying it as an excuse. This is the reality pictured in numbers, in geopolitical developments, in statements from the Turkish leadership "we will open the doors", repetitively. A government and a Prime Minister, who, at the right time, dictates that a corrective action must be taken and takes the political courage and political cost to correct it, and reconstitutes the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum. Are you blaming this, too? We have the political courage and the opportunity to recognise, and we will do so throughout our entire term of office, we will have the courage not to allow the logical course of action, where mistakes also happen to let them perpetuate. That's our difference from you. It is a completely different concept of governmental function and responsibility, which has an elected democratic government towards the citizens. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So the right decision was taken at the right time. Let's go to the latter, because these will involve today's debate and public opinion, because you did not want to discuss the substance of the bill, with which you agree with the overwhelming majority, but you wanted to create impressions. So let's go for the centers. Are there any prison centres that will be built? Why do you deform reality? Obviously, they're not prisons. But should we not at the same time listen to the sense of insecurity emanating from local societies? And what societies? Not some racists. They are the same people who in 2015 opened their homes, their hearts, who welcomed, supported those who came. They're just the same people, but there's a fatigue after all these years. Shouldn't we listen to them? There is a migration of fatigue in the island population. Shouldn't we hear their need to feel safer? We have to listen to her. We're making the closed centers for who? For those who are in violation of the law. Do you have any objections? Switching free? I guess not. If you have it, say it in public. Closed centres, therefore, for those who are in breach of the law, closed centres for those who have decisions to refuse asylum, so that we can return them, because they cannot stay out of control. Because if they take the rejection decision and know that they are in danger of being returned, they disappear if there are no closed centres. Here are two categories for which no reasonable person can say that there are no closed centres: for those who are in violation and for those who are proven and confirmed refusal to grant asylum because they are not entitled to it. But there is another category: those who illegally arrive in the country. And should these not remain for the time provided for in the Treaties and European directives, norms and regulations, which we respect 100%, so that we can be more efficient in examining asylum applications? For twenty-five days - so provided for by the law - they will stay in a closed part of the new centres and all the centres will be closely monitored. The entrance will be by card, card exit and the night will be 100% closed. Is this type of centre in violation of human rights somewhere? Your criticism violates logic. We are making centres much tighter, tighter and more controlled, because we have to find a policy mix that says respect for human rights, but also respect for people, local communities, who are concerned. I am being given the opportunity to make something clear today, because it seems to me that the new centres will not work decongestedly for the islands, that there will be no decongestion. There is no point in dividing: centres or decongestion. For us, it is clear that the centres will also become and the decongestion of the islands will continue to take place. In addition, the figure for the five islands is twenty thousand in total. Today we have forty thousand, with the logic that they will be returned. And decongestion will continue and closed centres will be established, because combined with the new legislation on speeding up the examination of asylum applications will quickly lead to more and more efficient returns to Turkey and third countries. It is therefore a good policy, a decisive policy. You have also raised the issue of the legislative act, as authoritarian, on our behalf, governance. Wasn't there a dialogue before? Did you not hear, read, say that there was exhaustive dialogue, in fact, with reference to specific alternative places, two months? So what should the government do, what should any democratic government do? To speak with society, with representatives at local level, to go to the detail of matters, because that is our democratic task. But there is another task in the country: when an urgent, critical, serious challenge arises which needs to be tackled, democratic dialogue, which has already been established and developed, it must become a brake and, at the same time, it must become an obstacle to the need to resolve, to deal with a critical and urgent situation. So here's what we did. We are neither authoritarian nor undemocratic. And we talked and we'll talk. I want to hang up with this. I would like to believe that, because the common good is that there should be a division and quietness on the border islands of the country, to the extent that it is relevant and I can do so, I would like to sincerely encourage the local rulers in the Aegean islands to abandon impasses of supposedly interrupting co-operation with the government, but to discuss them. And I'm sure we'll find a common place. Because our concern, our care is to be next to the islanders and to ensure that the country has an effective immigration policy that respects both human rights and the need for the security of its citizens and the country. I shall close with a very brief reference to the directive we are discussing. I am very pleased that any debate on the content of this directive has finally taken place. There were intentions and proposals and points to be made which needed to be improved at a later stage in management. The essence is that there is a wide-ranging agreement on the need, not only under the state of the possible imposition of fines in our country, but also for the substance of a directive, which, once again, concerns no misunderstanding, concerns the legitimate, controlled entry and short stay of students, researchers, volunteers and others, who are practicing in our country, so that, after we are done with this obligation, which has been pending since 2018, in the next phase, we can manage the immigration challenge both in terms of illegal immigration, but also in terms of the legal immigration that is enrichment for the country. For one we're vertical across the street. We'll check her out. We'll handle her. We know it's hard. Ask us who are responsible rather than those who sit in offices and write from far away, without knowing or feeling the burden of responsibility. We shall proceed with what is provided for in the directive, not because we are believable of some people or of Europe with blind obedience, as it has been heard, but because we believe that this is the interest of the country, society, of the Greek society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u321	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the Drama Music Gymnasium (Second Chamber). We welcome you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA now has the floor, Mr Marilissa Xinoyanakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, listening a moment ago to the Deputy Minister, Mr Kumucako, whom I personally appreciate and know for many years, but I understand that he has to cover a number of unjustified acts and choices of the Government of New Democracy, you would think that he is critical of the members of the national delegation and that, in general, the House is legislating vacantly. It's not like that. The House is legislating within a specific political, social and economic framework, and indeed because you said that the Greek people are listening to us and even invoking schizophrenic views - which you know, this existence of different views within Parliament is a matter of democracy - I would say that if something were realized by the Greek people, it is the schizophrenic, ideological, inefficient government policy, which, in its last attitude, proved to be extremely authoritarian and cynical, as was reflected in the legislative act, Minister. Because you know, it's very easy to keep up with opposition. We, from day one, did not follow your own path because, of course, geopolitical conditions have been in the first place. There were, in the period 2015-2016, when we had the enormous flow of refugees from Syria, but I do not remember then having admitted from the opposition officer’s side, New Democracy, that there were geopolitical reasons. On the contrary, we from 7 July and then clearly spoke about geopolitical reasons. So, this criticism, I think you should do it internally, to your own government and to your own party. From there on, the problem is that before the elections you were caught in a concrete ideological account, on the issue of the refugee issue, without any mention of the geopolitical situation and the humanitarian crisis at that time. You did not accept any debate on this matter, and you were, in fact, the party that produced the most disgraceful and extremist voices in the local communities. In other words, what our people say: you have sprinkled winds, and now you are reaping storms and internally with your own officials throughout Greece. You say what you received. Let me tell you what you received. We made huge efforts, and even as far as the country faced, as you know, the crisis and then, when we had just come out of the memorials, eight months, when you received the rule. But the numbers are catalytic, Minister. I, too, have visited Chios, Lesvos and Kos, and it is a catalyst for the information given to us by the competent, the local communities, who have to tell you that in most cases they are not committed to the Left and SYRIZA. It is typical, where some fifteen thousand refugees were on our island on 7 July, that is now over 40 000. And where Lesvos - because that is where we have the biggest problem and the tragedy of Moria - was around five thousand seven hundred on 7 July - I was recently, ten days ago - at this time, over twenty thousand. You're saying you've received a distorted tool. But the distorting tool you are saying that you have received, namely the Ministry of Migration and Asylum, is an effort that had already begun with a programme for the transfer of vulnerable groups to the inland, with any problems and delays. What did you do? This tool, for which you are criticizing, has been abolished. And you thought it was right to subject these powers to the Ministry of Civil Protection, so that all this delay, bureaucracy, operational and recruitment would go back. Because as Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, I had approved a large number of recruitments for this ministry, which were frozen. At the same time, within this embarrassment that you felt during the first period, for three months all the transport of the vulnerable groups and the preparation of the respective centres that were on the way in the hinterland have been frozen, so that we can arrive in October with this foreign change of your policy, where you said that you would start transport. But, at that time, there was a huge reaction of your officials, your MPs, the mayors who are coming to your party in local societies, which you had previously grown up and exciteded. They froze everything again, you lost months again, and Mr Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister, arrived at a meeting of the New Democracy in Kavouri that it was the last transfer to be made. I am pleased that you have differentiated yourself and said today that you will obviously continue the transport of vulnerable groups and the decongestion of the islands. Let's see how you actually mean it. I say what Mr. Mitsotakis said and what came out in public. As is also the fact that the Ministry of Migration Policy was re-established, we consider it to be positive and said so at the very first moment. What we do not regard as positive is that it has been abolished and that time has been lost and that inefficiency and inconsistency has been inconsistent. But in addition to that, Mr Mitsotakis - and here it turns out the way the opposition was made by New Democracy - said, as you said, that he had not properly assessed the scale of the problem. Actually, he confessed it was wrong. The idealism and the anti - SYRIZA front that you had cultivated in the previous period, now you collect it. Now we go to the newly established Ministry of Migration Policy and what would be expected from a new Ministry and you were already nursed in this post and from the new Minister, Mr Mitsarakis. You talked about dialogue. But, Minister, local communities are now feeling you've been mocking them. Today, there was a large concentration of local players and representatives of the islands outside the House and they raised the topics and isolated the extreme voices. Members of the opposition were also involved. In Lesvos I met with the Mayor of Western Lesvos in Calloni. The representatives of the government considered that there would be a meeting today with the new ministry, that they would discuss with the government. Apart from a meeting in Maximos some weeks ago, they had nothing younger. So there was, ladies and gentlemen, a planned meeting with local communities, namely with self-government, the district manager - they are not our members - people are fighting. We do not agree with many, of course, with the extremities they say. But they thought they had a meeting. What did they see? You did not even expect this meeting to take place, but you brought an act of legislation a few days ago. That's why everyone says it's also an act of authoritarianism - and I'll explain it - but also cynicism. Why cannot a new ministry, instead of coming to give a signal - there is the procedural remark we made to you, which had a constitutional and parliamentary basis, on the way you have brought this draft law, without following, as the former President of Parliament would have said, a restitution procedure that would give you the opportunity to develop your strategy on the refugee and immigration issue - to bring about a legislative act. Why is she authoritarian? It's very simple, 'cause first of all, the House is open. Legislative act may be justified when the House is closed. This is not the case. There were bills in the House. You could bring in an amendment. Do not say that you could not bring an amendment when, in all previous bills, you have in the past months brought numerous amendments, which are tabled at the last minute. So why didn't you bring in an amendment you have adopted an act of legislation? It is not urgent, it is that you wanted to avoid dialogue in Parliament. Because you know that there would probably be a roll-call vote and you wanted to make sure that you did not have the drums, which you had with the amendment on sport, and that it came up at that time. Because you have all these internal problems, but they do not concern the Greek people. The Greek people are concerned that there should be an honest dialogue and consultation with local communities. Of course, it is authoritarian in terms of its content, as it provides for the requisition measure. What dialogue do you have, Minister, and when did you speak of a requisition? This is done in emergencies and periods. In fact, they're bringing our memory to the darkest times. However, there is no such precedent in post-policy. From there on, the MDG is cynical, because, in fact, you are not just indifferent to dialogue, and now you are calling them in advance, since you have already adopted the legislative act, to come to dialogue. But, at the same time, it has a deeper meaning, where we went to our islands, they said: They feel that you have left them to their fate. In fact, you have decided to ghetto the islands, while, at the same time, closed detention centres in inhumane conditions, they will accumulate human souls, contrary to European law, contrary to the need for human conditions to exist, and without actually having the mood or the possibility, because of your internal problems, to go into disarmament. So, in fact, it is a cynical, ultimately, policy against refugees, who are people who are bewildered, human souls. You are supposed to have wanted, while in recent months, to humanise conditions and speed up asylum procedures you have actually failed and by order and authoritarianly proceed to the establishment of closed centres that are like a ghetto in the ghetto, while at the same time there is no way out. Minister, there is great anxiety, there will be great criticism from the European Union, and I imagine you do not share what Mr Georgiadis said. Do you have a great deal of European experience and share the European authorities, do you not care about saying that 'we do not care to get a euro', as if the European authorities and the values of humanism are about economic transactions? Minister, even now you must review this strategy. Today it is required: First, a policy of dismantling the islands is real, effective, with human conditions in the inland. At the same time, the centres that operate, continue to be open centres, improving their conditions, because as you have said, the causes are geopolitical and the flows will continue. Third, go ahead with the recruitments. When you say accelerating asylum, you cannot go ahead with the necessary recruitment for administrative, doctors, nurses and teachers. All the training programs have been stopped at the reception centers. And fourthly, above all, give the battle to Europe at last. Don't wait when in September, in the German Presidency, a plan will come. It will be late, because you know very well that the problem is ahead of you in the next few months, in the summer. So, even at the moment, we are calling for you to withdraw the authoritarian, anti-democratic and cynical act of legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u323	The next speaker is Mr Viliardos Vassiliou, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start a little different than yesterday, because we haven't had time to do a second. So, listening yesterday to the Minister of Finance, we would advise him to stop ruling by relying on and constantly invoking SYRIZA's failed negotiation to justify his wrong actions, since it does not help Greece at all. The same applies to Mr Kumucako, as we have heard before, who also incriminates SYRIZA for his current mistakes. We believe that it is funny to constantly repeat the reduction in the tax advance from 100% to 95%, which should be reduced to at least 50% before the rest of the Greek businesses are closed and only the foreign companies, who pay those taxes. As far as LARCO is concerned, we believe first of all that if a company of its own had an incompetent director, the solution it would have chosen would certainly not be its sale. In relation to the courts, and the European Union, which was certainly not random since they started in 2013 when Greece was in the memorials, a court means a successful trial or a failure, so their decision was just a failure of Greece. Because he said now that Piraeus Bank reported two loans to LARCO, we would tell him that he also denounced loans from the New Democracy amounting to EUR 160,000,000, and that is clearly where he found the solution, so he could not find a similar solution for LARCO? However, it was a funny report, the 35,000,000 who said the taxpayers paid, when they have paid almost 80,000,000,000 euros for the banks, while at the same time losing their ownership. It's 35,000 euros on the one hand, 80,000,000 euros on the other. As far as development is concerned, how can it emerge without support for domestic demand, which is impossible when Greece is the only European Union country that has retreated the minimum wage since 2010 and even 12%, when even in Romania it has increased by 12.5% and Bulgaria by 9.8%? Is it not true that growth in 2019 mainly relied on the rise in demand caused by the elections along with tourism? Unless you have elections again in 2020, to increase demand and growth. We will have growth, of course, if Greece continues to sell everything at degrading prices, and even with extra thick dowry, such as the Scaramaga shipyards, because of incompetence in line with Montenegro that managed to escape the recession, by selling everything it had and did not, thus achieving growth rate of 4.5% in 2017 and 5.1% in 2018 and not 2.9%, as the government claims. With regard to what Mr Hatzidakis claimed about 'LARCO', who has undertaken a flat-rate liquidation of Greece, should he have investigated what has happened with the waste 'Alaminion of Greece', where we mentioned the issue of red mud, as well as the 'ELDORADO' in Skouria, which does not pay taxes in Greece, but in the Netherlands? I now come to the bill, which our rapporteur referred to. There is no reason to repeat ourselves, which is why we will fill in the following. It covers the conditions for granting entry permits for studies and voluntary work of citizens of third countries. Our remarks relate to its dubious necessity, as well as to the risks it poses, unless some numerical limits are adopted in its implementation. This is all about: firstly, research work. Secondly, the voluntary work that is directly related to NGOs and thirdly, the work of au pairs, which, although provided for in the European directive, was not included in the law. We will start with some general remarks on foreigners in Greece, in which a significant number are not registered. In this regard, we will set out a time table of the General Confederation of Greece, in which the following can be seen. The population of Greece in 1971 was eight million seven hundred sixty thousand, ninety-two thousand of whom were foreign, i.e. 1,05%. In 2011 the population of Greece was ten million nine hundred and thirty-nine thousand - we are always talking about a permanent population - of which nine hundred and ten thousand nine hundred twenty-nine were foreign, that is, 8.43%. From this one point of view, one can understand that Greece has approached, on the basis of official figures, its ceilings, which in no country should reasonably exceed 10%. I'm filing the relevant table in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Continuing on the subject of study, we must stress that Greece has the highest rates of unemployment among young graduates, since only 52% are employed when the average in the European Union is 80%. So logically, they leave and will unfortunately continue to leave our children. Lost studies, lost youth, lost generation. Therefore, attracting students from third countries or academics does not seem to be the best, unless they are, of course, areas that the Greek economy needs, if we still have that. The same does not refer to the cost of study by the General Accounting Office of the State. Why, really? Will the cost be covered by the student? According to EUROSTAT, however, the cost per student in Greece is EUR 1,972 plus the cost of living. I am tabling the relevant document in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In addition, there will be monitoring costs by the migratory authorities, as well as compliance plus, of course, the cost of living. As far as research and development is concerned, according to a study by the European Central Bank, a total of 50 000 ninety-two people were employed in Greece in 2018, while in Germany it amounts to 1.37% of the total employment of our country as a whole, compared with 1.39% of the European Union average, while in Germany it is 1.66% and in the leader of Denmark it is 2.33%. At research costs, Greece falls far short of the European Union, since it is only 1%, but with considerable performance. In conclusion, there are no shortcomings in research in Greece at a global level, which would justify attracting third countries, let alone when, as we said, many Greek graduates leave abroad. So it would be an increase in research expenditure and the creation of new jobs. In any case, if there are no criteria for competence and a limited number of foreign students, we can be led to uncontrollable situations. Perhaps to circumvent the institution for other reasons. Furthermore, on the issue of voluntary work, to which no special attention has been paid, the NGOs have not been recorded in Greece, while we are sceptical about what will happen with the new government's amendment. What concerns us in these organisations, apart from the issue of employment, because of high unemployment in Greece, is what they are doing, and their supervision, where there is no supervision, there is no taxation, etc. and unfair competition is provoked in the rest of the Greek companies. We must note here that in the United States from which this fashion - fashion - has come - there are today 12 million three hundred thousand workers in NGOs, which account for 10% of total employment, and they have quite significant revenues and payroll costs, which has a considerable impact on local communities, as well as on government revenue. Services such as education, emergency aid, environmental protection, etc. are available. Finally, they are an important area in terms of employment. The third most important, after industry and commerce. They're called third sertor. I'm filing the table in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore, very much attention is needed in dealing with it, because it can affect working conditions for the wider population, since many of them have no contact with the official services and the regulations of the State or trade unions. In Greece, however, there were four hundred and twenty-two NGOs, with four thousand thirteen employees and nineteen thousand eighty-sixty-sixty volunteers in 2013, before the high fluctuation of migratory flows. I submit to the Minutes the map that existed in 2013. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned map, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The General Confederation of Workers of Greece has not prepared a study on the missing issue of labour relations in NGOs and their reaction to the business sector entitled, the Greek trade unions in the face of the challenge of modern migration flows in December 2019, where there is a broad existence of "grey" work in many NGOs. Therefore, a bill such as today, which promotes socially beneficial work for people from third countries and especially in relation to immigration, must be treated with great care, how much more so when several times such workers have been arrested for drug trafficking, illegal activities or incitement to such actions. Continuing, we find with surprise that the au pair sector was not included, although it was in the European Union directive under number 801 of 2016. So it is again stated that the content of the European directives is not mandatory either in Greece or in other places, but it is referred to as appropriate, as the government wants. In the explanatory statement, the following is stated: when this directive is incorporated and on the basis of consultations with the relevant ministries, it is not appropriate to incorporate the provisions on the category of domestic unpaid help, since there is no need for third-country nationals to be invited to take aau-port position in families for their linguistic and cultural experience in exchange for light domestic work and childcare. Taking into account the scale of the irregular domestic employment of third-country nationals, the possible inclusion of au pairs, would create the conditions for the abuse of immigration legislation and further distortions in the national labour market. Just parallel it with the issue of immigration, where I said aau pair, put immigrants and you will understand that it is exactly the same, only that in one case we adopt it in the directive, while in the other it is not. To close, despite the fact that the institution is not now allowed and is not included in the bill, there is demand, while many rich Greek families have blankets to raise their children, such as the family of Constantine Mitsotakis, who had German blankets. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So we wonder why the current bill does not cover the au pairs. Finally, we are pleased that Mr Kumouchakos said that he has the courage to correct his mistakes. We hope she'll do it with this bill, withdrawing it. I would also like to stress that we do not have a refugee issue in Greece, but a matter of migrants, as the step of the Greek Solution, which visited Mytilini with its own eyes, found. There he saw that what Mr Mitsotakis said about two months ago, namely that 90% are foreigners and non-avoidable Afghans, Pakistanis, etc., is indeed true. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u325	Mrs Zoe Rapti, the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor, which is also the last speaker. Then the Minister will speak to close the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u326	Ladies and gentlemen, I intended to talk about the draft law of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum, amending Law No 4251/2014, since today's bill is an amendment and recommends an amendment in order to adapt the Greek legislation to Directive 2016/801, so that we have the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals, with a view to research, studies, practice, voluntary service and employment to specific educational programmes. However, since the debate that followed, I should like to focus above all on what has been said about the policy of the New Democracy, with regard to the immigration - refugee issue. Here in this Chamber, the SYRIZA representatives have spoken of inhumane behaviour, of closed detention centres, they have spoken of caging our own in the policy that we have announced in an election. And of course, on the other hand, Greek representatives said that we have replaced the population of our islands with immigrants. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that they have nothing to do with the reality of what has been heard, because all the policy that we have pursued on the issue of refugees - immigration - has been implemented by all our pre-election commitments on this issue. First of all, I would like to put things in a row to ask everyone who is responsible for the accumulation of immigrants on our islands, beyond the international context and, of course, the many migratory flows that accumulate on the Turkish coast, who is responsible for the management of immigration and what the previous government has inherited us. And I say this because it is obvious that after his logic 'they will come to Greece, they will melt and disappear', as will the logic that 'the sea has no borders', that which the SYRIZA government inherited was essentially a huge number of refugees and immigrants, accumulated in the inhuman detentions of Moria and the other regions. Unfortunately, I have had the tragic experience of visiting Moria and of seeing the truth of the truth, a three-fold number of those who were able to bring not only Moria but also the other detention centres. What we were inherited was, in fact, sixty thousand pending asylum applications, in these four and a half years, inherited us minimum returns, only a thousand eight hundred six returns, over four and a half years and last, of course, inherited us the situation on the islands, to be at the mercy of crime. And I say this also, on account of the knowledge of fellow citizens and friends in Lesvos, from whom I hear what they are experiencing every day in connection with the theft of their property. On the other hand, what have we promised the Greek people? We had promised - and that is why we brought it in and voted in this House - the law first to speed up the examination of asylum applications, a law which we have all voted on here in this House. We had promised that we would monitor non-governmental organisations that have been acting unnecessarily for four years, within and outside these detention centres. This was what New Democracy has brought with it an amendment to the House this provision, which now requires these non-governmental organisations to register, not only in terms of their representatives, but also in terms of all, who manage matters and appear either in detention centres or elsewhere, in order to represent these organisations. What else did we do? We started our returns. And why am I saying it? In the New Democracy programme, there is the intention of returning some ten thousand immigrants who are not entitled to asylum, in about a year or so, in other words about a year. Of course, it has begun, because we have already returned in January of some two hundred. And of course, we've also accepted donations. We accepted the donation of the Greek shipowners so that we can have the ten boats to control our sea borders and, at the same time, we also hired border guards at our borders. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a given that dealing with immigration - refugee - is not something that will be solved from day to day, and it is also, given that there have been uncertainties in dealing with this issue, which we recognised and as the State Secretary responsible said, Mr Kumucakos boldly and of course with fascination, the mistakes are to correct and proceed in this direction. Mr Margaritis Schonnas, the Vice-President of the European Commission, came here on 16 January, in the House, and in fact before all of us Members of the Greek Parliament, he admitted that there is indeed a great deal of uncertainty and that the European Union has to deal with immigration. In fact, he pledged that by March there would be a new bill, a new substantially new asylum map, in order to make the specific actions needed to achieve tangible results better and more coordinated. I would like to invite all colleagues and colleagues from all sides and from all parties here in Parliament, both at the Greek Parliament and at the European Parliament, to work together in this direction. I think that the micro-political aspirations and uncertainties, as far as the criticism is concerned, are not useful at this stage. I accept the fact that this is a very serious issue for the inhabitants of the islands. To conclude with this, I will say that the question of the order to which the government has made legislation by means of the act of law was an issue which deserved immediate intervention. We all know that this issue could not be dealt with any other way, since there have been extensive discussions with local communities over the past time and ultimately the one at stake was the break-up of public order and public health. So, at this level, we had to proceed with such an act and, of course, not without a price, because there is a rent for the next three years to them, whose property at the moment will be used precisely for this purpose. I would therefore like to invite all my fellow Members to work in the common direction of shielding our country, in cooperation with the countries of the European Union, namely to shield it within a new framework of a European asylum policy. In these words, Mr President, I will not stand by the bill, which we are discussing today, a bill which - and I will only say that - has to come, it has come as soon as it has been done, of course we have faced the delay that SYRIZA has shown to bring about now, and it is - and we know - mandatory if we want to be right and, of course, to harmonise our legislation with the law of the Member States of the European Union. It was therefore necessary to bring this forward and, of course, it has very specific provisions which facilitate the stay of these people in the country for the reasons set out in the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mrs. Rapt. The circle of interventions by the parliamentary representatives has been completed. As far as we know in the Bureau is concerned, the rapporteurs and the special speakers are not prepared to give a second answer, so I will give the Minister the floor to proceed with the vote after the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, Mr President. The vote is surely going to give the result of overwhelming support for the transposition of the directive into Greek law. The decision is correct and obviously with a vast majority of support will not be withdrawn. The reaction concerns a number of things said by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. The Ministry of Migration Policy and Asylum in its first phase when we took over, which passed to the Ministry of Civil Protection, was a necessary move resulting from a great mistake of your own perception of things. You have dealt with immigration policy as a policy which had no security dimension. So we had to make a very rapid move to show everywhere, in and out of Greece, that for us the security dimension in dealing with immigration is essential, it is serious and it has to be stressed for semantic and political reasons. On the way, as I told you, we tried to deal with a state that we have already found problematic with. I've explained how. Just think, as I told you, and you forget that, the system was closed in Greece. There were no outlets - because in your own policy you had led Europeans to close the Balkan corridor - but only inputs. And once again, you have avoided making any hints in a genuinely recorded fact of the vertical increase in outflows and inputs from Turkey. So we received a closed system. Suddenly, ten days after taking up our duties, we have a spectacular, dramatic increase in migration flows to the country. You can't ignore that. Make a review of us, but you may not find a word to say about how we got to these numbers. You know what? When you pick up an already overshadowed situation and others come, it's obvious that the numbers will grow. It's a logical consequence. When, in the three thousand, you have six and seven, and at the same time you have a arrival explosion, it's obvious that the numbers are growing and the six become more. Because then you are called on as government in a very short time - and this is a crisis, when something dramatically changes a situation in a short time, that is a crisis - and an already sick situation to deal with and add to a new crisis. I told you again that everything was not perfect, so with courage and political courage we have led to a new decision that was the right decision in the right time. What is the government's policy? I would briefly say that it is a six-year policy: Firstly, strengthening the borders. Is there any objection to that? We also support land and maritime borders. The terrestrial pedestrians and floating patrols, wired, with flight monitoring means. That's what we have to do and we do it. And at sea, too. Increase surveillance instruments, new consultation with FRONTEX and a specific policy that sends the right messages. So this is the one thing: strengthening borders. Secondly, speed up asylum procedures. We have received a system that was devastated, suspectedly burdened in time, and we have made legislation that speeds up the process. Is there any objection to the speeding up of asylum procedures, so that we know and know for ourselves? And if you like, it is an indirect but clear support for human rights. Those who have the right to protection early know that they have the right to international protection and do not expect years to be horrific in various interests and, of course, those who have to leave, leave. Third change, come back. Real, substantial, enhanced returns to Turkey, in line with the European Turkey declaration - the European Union of 2016, but also to third countries. I'll give you a parentheses here. Returning to third countries, Afghanistan and elsewhere, is an extremely difficult issue because we have a difficult deal to do with governments. That is why we have taken a concrete initiative. SYRIZA knows. At the recent meeting of the local parliamentarians with Mr Mitarakis and I have given them the proposals we have submitted to the European Commission and the European Union with concrete proposals to strengthen European return policy. This is the third fine, returns strong and powerful. Fourthly, monitoring of non-governmental organisations. Does anyone think that there should be no elementary, effective control of non-governmental organisations? We do not hunt witches, but we need to know what they are producing work, according to their mode of operation, according to their budget and staffing, and what they are moving in a grey area and instead of contributing to problems, at least create problems. But we don't hunt witches or generalize. Fifth fine, supervised tightly new centres with closed structures, such as the ones I described before. We are putting order into the system because we are listening to the need for citizens to feel safer, but also to the country. That is why I want to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on What are we doing there? How have we moved so far? You accused us of waiting - it says - the German proposal in March to move. No falseer of this. I would say that by breaking every previous logic of inertia and inertia, Greece is first so present in European things. I am explaining: very early, at the end of July - at the beginning of August, we formed a very substantial political text together with Cyprus and Bulgaria, which was needed at that time because the Europeans' interest was in the whole of the Central Mediterranean, - we tabled it in Brussels and in the other partners - which said: 'Beware of why the really sensitive region is the Eastern Mediterranean', with figures, with arguments. Secondly, a substantial contribution, which was even very positively accepted by the committee, for the Member States. This is a full and concrete proposal on how Europe can make more returns, joint return operations, joint flights, incentives and counter-incentives for difficult third countries to cooperate in the logic: 'More support from Europe for more cooperation, less support from Europe for less cooperation'. Last month we tabled a comprehensive proposal on how Europe can be made more effective in combating traffickers' networks, which are the morbid backbone of illegal immigration and we must break it. Finally, as far as the philosophy of the new agreement on the Immigration and Asylum Pact is concerned, we have tabled a four-page proposal by myself: the whole Greek philosophy of how this pact should be. We have already worked out specific proposals. What's that philosophy? To be heard: The responsibility that the first-line countries take on, such as Greece, because we are the ones to manage asylum claims, must certainly be balanced with effective effective solidarity. There is no possibility for the first-line countries to accept a system of defective solidarity from the other Member States. Those who do not show it should suffer the consequences. They may not only have the benefits of participating without the cost of refusing to be solidarity. In this proposal there is also something interesting and I submit it to the National Representation today. We are proposing that there should be a means of solidarity that is compulsory, which will work directly in the event of crises. For example, we have a crisis in the region, that the first-line countries should not be consulted with the other partners or Brussels, but that a compulsory mechanism of solidarity which, just over the crisis, will be triggered and produced with the necessary and necessary solidarity, so that Europe will never be in the situation of '15, because it will really be a major failure if a second-time crisis fails to manage. Finally, in response to what you said about a lack of European participation and initiatives we signed ten days ago an unacceptablely maintained staining of your government in relation to the legal status of European immigration agencies operating in Greece. We signed a host country's agreement with the European asylum agency. And as a result of this signature and regulation of this outstanding which have finally acquired legal status in the country - it is not a non-governmental organisation, it is a European agency - it was a change in their policy. From five hundred people who had here to help us in managing asylum applications, we committed and signed an operational plan to increase the five hundred to a thousand, 100% increase. And the expenditure will now be paid to our country from 27 million, which was until now only 36 million will be spent. So we also have 10 million additional costs that the EASO mission will cost. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] We are already launching and will be concluding very soon a similar Headquarters Agreement with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, which has been in Greece since 1952 without a legal status. We will do the same with the International Organisation for Migration. Here, then, how Greece works in a proactive way, does not expect developments to react, strengthens its negotiating position with a view to a very difficult and complex negotiation, but in which vital interests will be judged for the country in this part of immigration and asylum. I gave you a brief outline of an integrated policy followed by the government. From this we will be judged and I am sure that very soon, because this is my information, there will be a dialogue with the local rulers of the islands, because everyone understands that it is so much at stake in the border regions of the country that everyone will understand that we need to discuss, because that is what the common interest imposes. Finally, I shall refer to the order. There's been a requisition. Private land was ordered, because the existing state-owned public land was not satisfactory to make the centres, as I described them and the sites were better. And this did not come from an arbitrary moment decision, but after six weeks of talks where the Minister of Migration and Asylum, Mr.Mitakis, saw everyone and talked to everyone about everything. We have done our democratic duty, but also our duty to effectively face a major challenge for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u329	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Preveza General School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum: ‘Amendment of Law 4251/2014 (A 80) adapting Greek legislation to Directive (EU) 2016/801 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of research, studies, practical training, voluntary service, exchange of students or educational programmes and the employment of in-house unpaid assistants (au pair)’. We move on to vote on the principle of the law, the articles and the whole of them, and they will be voted on separately. We note that the vote includes the principle of the bill, twenty-seven articles, the farewell article, as well as the entire bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you have to make sure that you have voted for all the articles, as well as the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question, please contact the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u330	Once you have completed the vote, please close the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u331	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u332	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum: ‘Amendment of Law 4251/2014 (A 80) adapting Greek legislation to Directive (EU) 2016/801 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on the conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals for research, studies, practical training, voluntary service, student exchanges or educational programmes and the employment of in-house unpaid assistants (au pair)’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u333	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u334	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-13-S1-commons.u335	With the agreement of the House at 17.02p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 14 February 2020, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a) a debate at the request of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in accordance with Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure, on the subject of informing the House about government policy on employment, in accordance with the special agenda and b) parliamentary scrutiny, of topical questions.
