ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 20-5-2020 mandate, the PRAD's minutes of Wednesday 20 May 2020 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau.]] All my fellow Members and the Minister have been afflicted, but we will try as far as we can run the process a little today. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the discussion and vote on the articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of the Directives (EU) 2016/800, 2017/1371, 2017/541, 2016/1919, 2014/57 EU, ratification of the Memorandum of Administrative Cooperation between the Ministry of Justice of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Justice and Public Order of the Republic of Cyprus, amendments of Law No.3663/2008 (A'99) to the application of Regulation (EU) 2018/1727 and other provisions’. Monday's sitting was discussed and the bill was passed at the outset. Today's sitting will discuss the articles and amendments of the bill as one section and the bill on the articles, amendments and all of it will be passed. The speaking time of the rapporteurs, the special speakers, the parliamentary representatives and the speakers is eight minutes in accordance with Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure. Before giving the floor to the rapporteurs, I would like to wish the holidaymakers many years ago, as did the Minister, whom we have been discussing. Happy birthday, ladies and gentlemen. How about we stayed behind and the speakers are enough - there are thirty-seven - to shorten the time, whether we say it now or in person? So should I just put a minute less and have a one-minute comfort?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. This also applies to you, Minister, the shortening of time as far as you and the special rapporteurs are concerned. The first rapporteur, Mr Andreas Koutsoubas, is called in Stepma for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, since I begin today's sitting, at the fourth meeting of the bill under discussion, I too wish the New Democracy Parliament and the New Democracy Group many times, especially our Minister, in this Chamber, the production of good legislative work. Of course, we must not forget the dear President of Parliament and wish him many and success in this step. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill in which I believe that there were no ideological political controversies, no ideological political problems, so that we have extreme controversy and political dilemmas. It is also proof of this that, in today's sitting, few people were enrolled in opposition - I do not think it would be wrong - because they think that this bill - I think so too - is in the right direction, with the comments, of course, in all these meetings that have been made by a few speakers. If there were issues of great ideological political controversy, or if you want more remarks than those developed in the previous procedure, they would have been reflected in today's debate with more speakers. So, I say we're going well, we're going ahead with the presence here in the Chamber of Speakers. The bill under discussion, ladies and gentlemen, refers to the incorporation of European Union directives. If you want, there is a more complete transposition of Union law with national law on better lawmaking, proper functioning and the administration of justice. What I would like to say very briefly from the outset, because I think we have spent all this year in its examination and analysis of the bill and in principle and on the articles, is that the first directive, 800/2016, refers to the rights of underage accused persons and to the financial guarantees provided by this law. I summarise that the first articles refer to the right to a fair trial, to the right to be heard, to be heard, to protection, to the right to representation and to the content of the performance by a lawyer, to the right to be booked and on what terms. I am referring to the main and, of course, the right of the child to have legal aid, legal aid and legal aid. There is a clear provision that is relevant to the protection of privacy with an individual assessment of the mental and physical health and mental health problems of the suspected or accused minor and specialisation of scientific staff to examine it. They are advanced provisions, and all this has happened and they are happening because the lack of confidence in the criminal procedural systems of the Member States of the ‘Union requires that such rules be introduced that are more trusted. The second directive refers to the protection of financial interests, to the provisions of the European Union, lays down autonomous offences of fraud, i.e. false or inaccurate statements of VAT, VAT fraud, misappropriation or mismanagement. It is an attempt, as I have said at previous meetings, which, on the one hand, repeals Law No 2803/2000 and establishes common criminal rules for better protection and a unified effort, alongside our national law. They are common criminal rules for harmonised, effective and proportionate provisions, which all those provisions mentioned in previous autonomous offences lead to the reorganisation and strengthening of free competition and contribute to the improvement of the management practices of the European Union's assets, the interests of the European, state and ultimately in favour of the Greek citizen. This is where I will stop on the first point. I think it is our omission, Minister, to the provision which you have, and at the end you will see. The report of the Scientific Council of the Parliament has established that there is no provision similar to that of the National Law on the Elimination of Deprivation if the defendant, the suspect, returns the wrongly collected. I think that since these criminal rules are based on our national law and are made at the same time and complemented, the explanatory statement says that a provision must be drawn up, that allows the defendant to be given the right, because under no circumstances can any wish of the European Union deprive the defendant of his right, which imposes a national provision of our national law, the Criminal Code, which we have recently voted on. So when we say fraud in national law that it has the right when it comes back to misappropriation, which has been unduly collected, to be relieved in accordance with the procedure laid down, I do not see why the Scientific Committee of Parliament is not in this directive. The third directive refers to the fight against terrorism, to the exchange and collection of information. I do not think there is any doubt about the need to transpose this directive. I am making a second comment. I think that with regard to the wording of Article 36(2), which says 'the lack of supervision or control on legal persons poses risks of arbitrary or vague interpretation with the application of sanctions' and then with the entire paragraph of criminal sanctions, I think that the wording should be changed. I've made my observation to your partners and to you, Mr. Ministers, and I'm waiting for your answer. The other directive refers to legal aid to the amendment of Law 3226/2004 and another directive refers to Law 3663/2008 relating to the participation of the Greeks in the European Cooperation Unit. I am going to tell you more about the other provisions that are important in this bill, such as the establishment of a Department of Peace in the Judiciary, a deep basic section required for the best, fullest - if you like - scientific training of peacekeepers in view of the volume of cases and the widening content of these cases. I should like to dwell on the provision which gives the possibility of recruiting seven-year-olds and judges. I would like to point out what the Federation of Judiciary officials has said, Minister, so that there is no confusion in local authority. I think that, as the federation has sent the memorandum, you should make this amendment to Article 67(4), if I remember correctly. And I should just like to stay on two points which are important - since one provision has been repeated over the last few years, as you have said - to stop criminal prosecution and abhorrence. Firstly, I would like to observe, because this bill had come at the end of April, early May, and it was said to be up to 30-4-2020, I think it might be right, bearing in mind the basic principle of the Constitution, the principle of equal treatment, equal treatment, and equal treatment, that provision should be made for the cessation of penalisation until the publication of this bill. I think that the principle of equality is better applied, we are implementing the principle of equality and equal treatment in accordance with the Constitution. And of course, I would like to stress that there is clearly a accumulation of cases, we have said so. I insist and will insist when we discuss legal matters. It's not just these limitations. There are other offences, criminal offences, which must be punished only by administrative means. I am referring to: The check is no longer a payment institution; it has become a credit institution. Insurance contributions cannot constitute a criminal offence in the country's current European perspective, the non-payment of insurance contributions, only an administrative sanction. I have explained to you - I do not want to waste any more time - I think that in a subsequent bill you will go to the negligence of insurance contributions. The billboards filled and filled with cheques and insurance contributions. In no way do they protect the state, they in no way protect the citizen, they in no way protect the lender. With these considerations, I call on colleagues to vote on the bill, I recommend his vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u4	Be well! Thank you, Mr. Kutsuba. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Dionissos Kalamatianos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin the speech with a reference to yesterday's events. Unfortunately, what happened yesterday negligent the parliamentary procedures, the institutions, our democracy. Such processes - I'm afraid they can shake the faith of our people in our citizens. This must not have happened because, in a fiasco, the procedure has evolved in the pre-examination committee for the alleged construction of the 'NOVARTIS' case - in the actual 'NOVARTIS' scandal, because the indictment has not been extended, because the construction, fiasco and the vote with the unprecedented and shameful opening of the ballots in order to get the invalid ballot out. Such thoughts and actions should not even pass through the minds of democratic citizens, how much more Members of Parliament. You set up a scene, New Democracy with the help of the Change Movement and nothing should have shaken it. But you have managed to embarrass Parliament with your illegal, unacceptable and irregular actions. You have a huge responsibility, because you have given another strong hit to our parliamentary and democratic processes. Let's go to the bill now. We voted in favour of the bill at first because European Union directives are incorporated with this. It also includes provisions such as the electronic document service, the ratification of the memorandum with Cyprus and the incorporation of the pacifists into the National Judicial School, which are provisions that we had worked out and matured from our own government. We have, however, raised a number of specific objections in committee and in plenary, objections to the individual provisions, on several individual provisions which we are voting against. So far, we haven't seen any changes, Minister, we're waiting for legislative improvements. On the subject of incorporating the Terrorism Directive, Minister, we must say, we must stress that there is no question of ideological difference and it was leniently unsatisfactory and unacceptable in parallel with Ireland. First of all, we stress that, throughout the entire party, parliamentary and governmental course of SYRIZA, we have demonstrated our firm and inextricably committed to respecting and defending human life, condemning violence and terrorist attacks. We have also proved this in government service with the incorporation of a corresponding directive on terrorism and the arrest of suspected terrorist acts. At the same time, however, - sadly for you and fortunately for society - we have sensitivities about social and political rights, which should not be violated, should not be undermined. In the process of the draft law in a technocratic, scientific way, we have raised differences in the provisions to be introduced into Greek law - the directive on terrorism - by the letter and the spirit of the directive, but also by the letter and spirit of provisions already in force in the Greek legal order. It is unacceptable, therefore, to speak of ideological differences or instinctive reactions of the SYRIZA with implied in the provisions on terrorism. That's what one of your MPs said. It is unacceptable to leave obscene implied, as you have always done on your sidelines, to distort reality. We therefore call on you to respond specifically to specific objections, differences and contradictions that we have with specific provisions of integration. You should not try to create impressions with such unacceptable statements. Leave the slandering and distortion of SYRIZA's positions. Answer us for real matters! Answer us whether you will include in the provisions that will vote for the effective protection of victims of terrorism and the extension of this protection to the family of victims. We're going to the issue of legal aid. We made specific proposals that have been recorded in the Minutes. You can look for them, Minister, they're registered and deposited. We have proved that experience, especially in criminal cases, is not just about the plays in the criminal courts. Colleagues may have a great deal of experience in the law, may be holders of postgraduate or doctorate, may have excellent knowledge of criminal proceedings and may not have ten performances, for example, but in practice they can handle much better than some who have ten performances. After all, our proposal for a follow-up by the lawyers of special seminars, as we analysed it, carried out by the lawyers, solves the question of knowledge in the right way and we invite you to adopt this proposal. For the rest, we have now tabled specific proposals on legal aid. What did we say? Firstly, enlargement of the rightholders of the institution. People with disabilities, multiples, minors, single parents, even with a higher income than provided for in your proposal should be integrated. The highest income criterion should also be applied with more favourable conditions for those who are accelerating execution operations in their main residence. Secondly, we have proposed that the beneficiaries of legal aid committed from three to five years should be included in the highest income criteria, in accordance with your draft law, for which such penalties are provided for. For the rest, the basic income criteria should apply. Finally, we proposed imposing a settlement of the legal aid due when payment exceeds six months, with the exception of August, from the receipt of the complete file by the FIFG. Lawyers could help out here in the liquidation, while the matter with the Court of Auditors’ audit can be overcome by providing for a special provision providing for control only for this liquidation and enforcing. Now we're going to hold judges and prosecutors. In the association document you submitted in the Minutes, Minister, the first request was to increase the organic positions of judges and prosecutors with the approval of the recent legislative act of June 2019. That was the first request. You met the seventh demand for an examination of the possibility of increasing the number of presidencies in a number corresponding to the presidencies of the Athens Courts. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I'm going further. On Monday, Minister, I invited you to answer - and I shall do so today - what your position is on the EUR 800 allowance promised by the Prime Minister to lawyers and has not been paid. Until yesterday, as I was informed, the EUR 600 had not even entered some colleagues. The courts have been closed since 13 March and many lawyers, like scientists, have been in despair and cannot afford to pay their basic expenses either. As Minister of Justice you are therefore due to take a position and intervene in the relief of those who serve righteousness. As far as the individual provisions in the directives are concerned, we have mentioned and will not say any details. But I will talk about Articles 63 and 64. You have not yet answered why you eliminate the criminal offences and acts committed two weeks ago, while in these cases there were six months behind or at least three months in which to insult. That hasn't answered yet. In addition, we say that the penalties for specific acts that they have...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u6	Please, please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u7	I shall conclude, Mr President. I repeat, we are not saying that there are any criminal penalties imposed on specific offences that are particularly deceptive, such as illegal violence, domestic violence, threats, theft and others. Nor has that been answered and we are waiting for an answer. As far as the issues of legal aid and the limitation of penalties, in particular the limitation of penalties, are concerned, there is the question of suspending social work for a year. If this institution had been implemented, which benefits both the convicted and the social group, the prisons would have been decongested and such a decongested legislation would not have been needed. We are pleased that the Minister and the Undersecretary have basically accepted our amendment, which helps the legal world to redefinite the unsuccessful cases, because of the pandemic, without time-consuming procedures and extra costs. At this point, I would like to say one last word on the amendment you tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish. You've already been in the tenth minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u9	I shall conclude, Mr President, in two seconds. We therefore disagree with this amendment. We referred to the order for the financial prosecutor and the prosecutor of corruption crimes. I also mentioned at the previous meeting that the reasons for disagreement are institutional, procedural and also material. If anything needs to be done, I'll come back. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u10	The reason is now the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Konstantina Giannakopoulou. Here, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to wish Mr Chiara many years for his nominal celebration. Happy birthday, Mr Chiara, many years to all the colleagues who are celebrating today, many years around the world, because today half of Greece is celebrating, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u12	And to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill on the modernisation of justice. And how life really brings them! We were discussing these days and yesterday we voted to broaden the indictment against Mr Papagelopoulos. It was a critical debate, a very critical vote and thankfully the majority of the House with the overall attitude of the Change Movement stood up. But many were exposed. They were either exposed by their conscious political choice to abstain from hiding or by taking the unprecedented political position that they were supposedly not concerned with this cliff. Since then, ladies and gentlemen, justice, the institutions, the rule of law, have in the end been the function of our own democracy on a number of secondary issues. Is that why the citizens voted on them? So they don't have to worry about all these major issues? To think: Ten top political officials of the opposition at the time were quoted with the vote of all MPs of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL without any evidence, with controversial testimonies of protected witnesses who were not even in their statements, except statements of the style 'I heard','something I saw','something I think'. Most cases were filed. There was absolutely no concrete evidence. And yet, in the mid-term none of them who were orchestrating the sparkling of the executives asked for a single apology. It seems to some people that price or reputation doesn't count. In fact, they're insisting on mussels. He can't, something, somewhere, somehow, someone will be found. We are talking, I think - and here we should be in agreement with the Greek Parliament - about an undemocratic concept that, if the reality does not match what suits them, then so much worse is for the truth. The previous government, instead of handling the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, like all countries, primarily starting with doctors and calling on the people of the company, has simply chosen to play political games by using dark meths. What was their accomplishment? Be the only country to which NOVARTIS did not pay a fine of EUR 1, so that the real scandal has been overshadowed! Judges, High Courts, denounce the Committee of the Regions' interventions and pressures. 'Rasboutin'. It was denounced in this way by highlighting a dark outrageous, para-stated circuit, an anti-democratic function. Of course, we have also seen the role of various prepared journalists. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we and the majority of the House have asked for this case to be brought to an end, for whatever it may be, for whatever it may be. Only those who want to hide situations refuse to reach the bone. Our people, you know, and very well he hears and even better understands, when they speak to him with the words of truth, and he can understand who are escaping and who are throwing the ball on the platform to hide the substance. So I hope that everything will go to the end, that the committee will reach the end, without fear of anything and that the absolute truth will emerge. As far as the bill is concerned, Mr Minister, the truth is that there has been a great debate here in the House. With regard to the original way you dealt with the bill, bringing 1/3 of the non-consultation provisions and bringing us ultimately a rag bill with scattered modalities, without any connection between them, we said that in any case it is not a model of good legislature, it is not a model of a state of service. Unfortunately, however, this seems to be the new regularity of your government and, unfortunately, similar behaviours are seen in other bills. We welcomed - and I will say again, Minister, and I will say this again, so that you do not do so in the future - the fact that you have withdrawn the provisions on the ADAP because they were wrong, and we call on you to take very carefully into account the questions that we have asked you and what you have been told, namely, in no case to think about transferring responsibilities from plenary to one-persons. It's undemocratic and it's wrong. We insist on this because we are waiting for your next legislation. As far as the substance of the bill is concerned, we have mentioned it very thoroughly. We don't have anything new to add. I must tell you that, on the subject of the directives, we as a European party will vote in favour of the incorporation of all European directives, because this is our primary obligation for our country. However, we will be voting against the provisions that you bring and which are not a European obligation and which are not defined in the directive, on the fourth part and on legal aid. And we will vote against the provisions that you are bringing not because we deny the enlargement of the beneficiaries. Of course, the beneficiaries of legal aid must be enlarged, especially in a period of severe crisis, which the Greek people really hurt and suffer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would ask you, Mr President, to have the two minutes that the previous speakers have had. Please for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u14	You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Kalamatian spoke 9.43'. For a while, please. But what did we tell you? And unfortunately, you seem to be not listening to our remarks. We have told you that the institution of legal aid is a deeply problematic institution. There are huge administrative issues and unfortunately there are also huge issues in terms of its funding. Now, at the moment, the legal aid for 2018 is being cleared, so that lawyers' reaction often does not take over the institution. First of all, Mr Minister, you must solve the existing problems of the current situation and of the institution. Not in the words, Minister - we have learned how this government can resolve various issues - in practice! You can tell us in particular whether you will give more money to make cleansing sooner and then you will come and talk about it. From such philosophical measures, Minister, we've been filled with the previous ones! Philolaic in the picture, in fact, because the institution did not work! So, please - because we want to talk seriously here - first of all resolve the essential issues of the institution and then, first of all, we will come and support and vote in favour of the enlargement of the beneficiaries of legal aid. As far as Articles 63 and 64 are concerned, with the ultimate limitation of criminal prosecution and the cessation of criminal prosecution, we have clearly told you that this story must be brought to an end at some point. This story must end sometime, Minister! The circumstances - I analyzed it twice! - they are not the same as they were in 2011, 2013 and 2016. We have had a new criminal code for a year, we have been abolishing the covetous felonies, felonies committed. There's no excuse why we should lead all this story. We will be voting in favour of the provisions on electronic document service - that is something that needs to be done and we have our look in the future and not in the past - and we will also be voting in favour of it - because it is absolutely right! - the establishment of a peacekeeping direction at the National School of Employees, which is fully compatible with their increased judicial duties.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u16	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u17	I'm closing, Mr. President. We as a Change Movement have tabled an amendment on the fulfilment of multiannual workers' requirements, which remain unsatisfactory. They had legitimately announced enforcement procedures and the auction programme had been published. Unfortunately, however, there have been very serious obstacles, and so these people are at the moment losing the possibility of getting their allowances. It's a fair, philosophical, friendly measure. It solves a huge injustice against these people and we invite you to see it positively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u18	The reason is the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. I wish the holidaymakers many years as well. The time is limited and I will not be tempted to respond to the mastics about the plenty of light that is being thrown in the 'NOVARTIS' case. The scandal has been so intensified so far, which it is considered necessary to extend research equally in other cases, to examine them in depth too! I shall refer to specific issues in the draft European directives, which we have discussed in detail at the outset. It is impressive that these really pass 'on foam' from almost all of the other parties. Indeed, SYRIZA and KINAL are indebted to the government because it is delaying integration, and we do agree that you are wrongly accusing SYRIZA of the fact that he first rushed to extend the terrorist. He has no problem with such provisions. Your commitment to the European categorisation is well known. But don't you see any problem with rights and freedoms in these regulations, with the unacceptable investigation of fleeing with vaguely described criminal behaviours? In relation to the procedural guarantees for children suspected or accused, we have made very specific and detailed statements on how, in fact, we consider that the rights of minors can be safeguarded. The directive refers to only a few procedural guarantees, which are not only behind the needs, but in some cases fall short of what is currently being implemented. For example, on the issue of the separate detention of children by adults, Article 11 takes a step backwards with regard to any positive measures. Up to now, after intense and long-term intervention by the Child's Counsellor, the 15- to eighteen-year-old group was kept separately in the detention center of Corinth. Not only is this draft bill not guaranteed, but it also provides in some cases for exceptional detention of minors in the same area as adults, which must be excluded in any case. Furthermore, Article 5 of the draft law must be completely removed from the provision limiting the application of those minimum procedural guarantees only in the cases of acts with a minimum penalty of at least six months. We have already pointed out that this excludes the vast majority of cases where minors, such as theft, physical damage and others, are usually involved. Special treatment and protection of minors must be ensured, regardless of the amount or nature of a periodic penalty, whether or not detained, as for Article 6, we consider that the possibility at any stage of the examination of that child should be explicitly excluded without the assistance of a lawyer. And in order to regulate the audiovisual record, we have said that it creates a pretext to protect against incidents of mental, physical or verbal violence against the minor, which nothing will ensure that they have been preceded outside the camera, but at the same time it is hiding much more dangers about how this video will be exploited by the prosecution authorities or in other cases. On the basis of a number of other comments we have made in the debate in committee, we consider that the directive does not fully guarantee the procedural guarantees appropriate to the sensitive age group of the accused, and that is far more than an overall anti-crime policy, with emphasis on the prevention, education and the smooth reintegration of minor offenders into society. We have mentioned in detail the extension of the repressive mechanisms within the framework of measures, as they are said, to combat terrorism and also to regulate against the interests of the European Union. We are once again highlighting the dangers that exist in such regulations, which too widen crime, assessing as criminal behaviours, as part of a terrorist organisation of alleged relations and objectives, to exploit themselves for a hunt of witches, always building terrorists with the eye on the working people's movement. It is clear that the bourgeois state is preparing the repressive mechanisms to address the popular reaction that will erupt against the new round of attack on workers and the populace, in order to get the big business groups out of this crisis as well. The government has already made its intentions clear. They did not even need the pretexts to attack popular mobilisations again and again. Finally, it seems that measures to strengthen internal tourism include movements of police forces from island to island, to impose your policy with whip. Not only do you suffice to strengthen the criminalisation mechanism, send people straight to hospitals, so that the 'green' or other biscuits can evolve undisturbed. This has shown the new scene of raw violence that the government set up on Tinos to implement the SYRIZA's decision this time - because the state has continued - to give the natural wealth in the hands of its own people for the installation of wind turbines. Gentlemen of the government, sow winds, choosing once again the dangerous path of police brutality. But beware, because the storm that the organized and determined people can cause cannot be stopped. It is characteristic that even from the outset innocent provisions of the bill appear who is putting the urban state before him, to whom he is taking his measures. For example, in the provision of Article 63 which has reasonably raised a total disagreement, which once again ceases criminal prosecution horizontally for all offences with a low penalty, in the logic of decongestion, which we consider to be problematic and inadequate in any case. However, you are making sure from them that you exclude this limitation on the unacceptable provision that criminalises the mobilisations against auctions. Is this for you the most socio-ethic deceptive act? It is indicative of the government's intentions to pave the way to massage the people's housing. And it is even more a challenge when, while you say that you are forced by the circumstances to proceed to such decongestional measures of justice, you are at the same time tabling a bill that provides for swift and luxurious procedures in courts for investors only. Just scales for capital! You see, for some even justice is a little fairer. We will, of course, talk about this in full when the new bill comes for discussion. But see, for example, that at the same time that you are enacting luxurious procedures for investors, you are putting new obstacles to access to justice, to workers and to the popular layers, especially in the current conditions that are multiplying financial difficulties. I am talking about the arrangements for the free provision of legal aid, which, instead of enlarging it by integrating more beneficiaries, you said in the previous debate - we did not see, of course, whether it would be implemented - that you would amend the provision by limiting income criteria further. Indeed, you have presented it as a sign of goodwill to reconcile the provisions of the bill with the proposals made by a portion of the Anti-Population and Lawyers, which we regard as unacceptable, of course. What would strengthen the institution of legal aid, but would also help the lawyers involved in it, would be their immediate repayment immediately after the legal act was carried out and not, of course, the current unacceptable delays of months and years. In relation to the last part of the bill containing the diffuse provisions, I will refer only to specific articles. In Article 55, we had made a total commitment in respect of the application of this compensation by an administrative authority, appointed by the relevant Minister and not by a judicial body which fulfils the guarantees of independence and impartiality. In this respect, we consider a positive step forward that the possibility for victims to resort to the increase in the deadline and the reduction of the paradox is widening, but I believe that the paradox that is deterrent to the applicants should be removed as a whole. In relation to Article 56, we do not consider the justification that you give that does not create any real problem because of the nature of the decisions of the S.H.E., because, in theory, the State is also bound, in other cases, by the pilot decisions, but does not rule out different reasons to deviate from it. There is already experience of invoking budgetary reasons or lack of a legitimate interest to be exempted from entitlements. In relation to Article 57, on the status of foreigners, we understand that this does not for the first time regulate the issues of international protection for the first time, but we believe that you are in fact confirming the criticism we have made and that, by speeding up the procedures, i.e. by subjugating applications for international protection to the administrative courts, there are actually preconditions for a 'industrial' rejection decision, when you have actually formulated this contradictory, the first judges will be called upon to examine decisions of higher courts when asylum committees are made up of sevens, making it virtually unlikely that they will be overthrown. Our criticism, in other words, focuses on this very fact, of the inconsistency of government policy, which demonstrates the direction you are taking in relation to the rights of refugees, which, of course, seeks to limit them in all ways. And two words now on the provision for the wage maturities of judges. We have put ourselves in a position and we consider it positive. Their payment has already been delayed, and we do not think that it should go to the end of the year. It's got to be done right away. Finally, the provision on the organic positions of the courts has been criticised from all sides. While after so long and given the needs for direct staff of the courts, you are even doing a limited amount of organic jobs, this is being undermined by the reduction in the positions of the public prosecutors, who are known to produce important work. Furthermore, we do not understand your refusal to speed up the coverage of the positions of the judges by introducing an invasive order of rank from the list of successful tenderers in the last year's competition, for whom, of course, we do not consider that they are lacking in scientific capacity by the previous ones, especially after the last opinion that answers to legal issues. We don't see the prediction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. Konstantinos Hetas, special speaker from the Greek Solution, has the floor for seven minutes. First of all, we wish you many years for your celebration.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we've been talking for a week about justice, and it's like the universe conspiracies. While we talk about justice, things happen. We have interventions in justice. I'm going to the Scorch case, which we analyzed here. We had intervention from the Ministry of Education - it has never been done before - which, through the Ministry of Interior, calls for us to hunt those who were married and those who were baptized, while we are talking about justice in this Chamber. It's amazing what's going on! Also, while we are talking about justice, Minister, for a week in committees and in plenary, the case of NOVARTIS is also under way. We saw this case yesterday. So let me answer the Change Movement and pick up the glove and say that we are very interested in what happened with the NOVARTIS case and we are not taking our tail off with our departure. We care very much. But we're interested in you telling us where the money went and not your chicken fights, Change Movement, SYRIZA and New Democracy. We in this parody do not participate. What concerns us and the world, the Greeks and the Greeks, is to tell us where the money went. And if the Government of New Democracy decides to bring actions against "NOVARTIS", we said by mouth Mr. Velopoulos that we will be on your side to get it to the end. That's to make things clear. That's what we're interested in. Also, he cares about the world if he lives. And let me inform you, Minister, that the Greeks must live after September. The measures you announced yesterday are until September. People will need work and food after September. These communication tricks and these injections and aspirins are fine, but you need to draw up a programme that is complete and not an election program. These measures you're taking are election. But for this, the President of Greek Solution will speak to you very little and will tell you once again the proposals, which you can of course keep notes and slowly start implementing. That's what's interesting about the world. It is also of interest to tell us, Minister, how it is possible for two months to be chased at us, to have us shut down in our house, to take the bourgeoisie - I saw Mr Georgiadis the day before yesterday counting - to wear these masks, to shops still be closed and to allow planes to come from all over Europe without any control. You need to explain to us sometime what you have in mind about them. Also, the Greek citizens and we are interested in respecting the institutions. We fully respect the institutions, but also the institutions must meet the requirements of the Greeks. Because it is the presidency of the Hellenic Republic. When we talk about events involving genocide, Mr Minister, I think you will agree with me, we should mention that these Greeks have been slaughtered, raped, abused, expelled and not just lost, as the President of the Republic said. I'll talk about the bill. Minister, I have made it clear from the outset that the Greek solution to its signature and the yes to this bill is not going to put it. He's not gonna put it. It's not going to be European integrations. I'll tell you later. I explained to you in all the committees and in the debate on the articles, the reasons why the Greek Solution cannot put it. You fought politically with the rest of the parties and everyone votes yes. I didn't realize how it happened. He was yelling at the Change Movement. SYRIZA shouted, took off your political arrows, got here a nice political chaos and finally said: SYRIZA yes, Change Movement yes. I don't really understand how this is going to happen. I'm going to the bill. Why do you baptize minors or those who do not know how old they are, underage? "How old are you, boy? We don't know how old you are. You could be eighteen, twenty. You've come from Bangladesh from Congo, we don't know where you've come from. We'll make you a minor. Come here and offer you a legal service." Minister, this is not the case. It is not possible for the Greek state and Greek justice to baptize their minors without knowing the age, because they have no papers because they are torn and throw them. Mr President, I am running too much today because you have just given us seven minutes. I want to see what I can say. You give them privileges, facilities, benefits, more than you give Greek citizens. Minister, they are integrations of the European Union. You know what? We must also look at the national interest. Not all Member States - Member States of the European Union can have the same needs. It does not, for example, concern Norway or Luxembourg. It does not have the same problems we have with illegal immigrants. Neither Turks have side to send hordes whole nor anything. So we should see our own needs. What did we find out, Minister? That yesterday we set the thirty-two, you will allow me to read, 'new mayors'. Awesome. Thirty-two C.T.A. Commanders. We knew it was twenty-eight CCTs. Finally, it's thirty-two. Thirty-two Islamachorias who, while we were locked in our house, were planted throughout our territory and on our islands. Thirty-two Islamachias with thirty-two potential mayors, commanders who take 3,000 euros each. Do you see these? Does people know about this? Thirty-two? With 3,000 euros each? It's possible mayors. Thousands of five hundred, two thousand, twenty-five thousand in Moria, thirty thousand, eight hundred, nine hundred. Parts you've planted inside the territory. That's it. That's what you're doing. Minister, I told you last time, I'll tell you now. Everything in the bill reminds NGOs. Unbelievable! We had the public sector, and the private sector can now also offer services and undertake to defend the interests of the minor. You can say it clearly. NGOs will be able to take official action and you say it clearly in the bill. NGO, as we call a state in a state. We're here to close them, send them out of here, most of them are illegal, and you're giving them rights, a role of official and warm money to manage. You can't do that. I do not go to Article 16 or Article 17 to support minors and funding. And this is NGO. Everywhere NGO? What's that? And how can we vote for this bill, Minister? I'm going to legal assistance. Irrespective of their nationality or place of residence or habitual residence. That is, everyone, small - big legal aid. You are restricting the many families that have three or four children, the EUR 1,000 for legal aid - which should be free of charge for Greek citizens - and you are offering legal aid free of charge to anyone who wants, whenever they want, without paper, without legal or permanent residence. These things can't be done. Would you like to vote for a bill, Minister, together? Bring here a bill of justice. Don't say on Saturday what we say on Tuesday, Mr. Kyranaki, and the rest of the New Democracy, which you made two - three to confuse the world. Because when in the Greek Solution for months from our program and within the House since we were elected, we say life, we mean life. Do it, Minister. There you will know that the Greek Solution will be on your side. There can't be any rapists, sick, perverts, and murderers moving out. And since we're talking about incorporation, Minister, why don't we once incorporate something that other countries do? For example in Australia - I do not know whether you know or not - there is a life sentence that can exceed forty years. Why don't we copy the good stuff? Is it possible for criminals to move out? That is why, Minister, because I also know that you agree with what I say, I make you public from the Step of the House when we say life, we mean life. This is a permanent location of the Greek Solution, which is clear throughout the world. I remember like now when our Chief said it, how you reacted: 'What are you talking about? You're overreacting. You are extreme.’ For these cases when we say life, we mean life. These are bills, Minister, which will help Greek justice. The rest of it is a mess that doesn't concern the Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u22	The reason is the Special Rapporteur of Mera25, Mr. Fotini Bakadima.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, before I begin to wish the holidays and holidays for many years too. And they're enough today. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the second day of the debate on the draft law introduced by the Ministry of Justice, which is made up of eight parties. I am starting with the first part on the incorporation of Directive 800/2016, on procedural guarantees for children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings. We have been placed at the moment in detail. I will be staying today in a brief statement saying that the wording of this part does not cover us in defending the child's personality and interests. The second part aims to incorporate Directive 1371/201,7 on combating fraud through criminal law against the European Union's financial interests. The third part aims to incorporate Directive 541/2017 on combating terrorism. And that is what we have referred to in full. Let us move to the fourth that aims to incorporate Directive 1919/2016 on legal aid for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings. I have analysed Mera25's view on legal aid. You have received our suggestions, Minister. We expect to see the final form of this place in order to express our position through our vote. The fifth part with only one Article, Article 48, supplements Directive 57 of 2014 on administrative penalties imposed in the event of specific infringements of Union law. The sixth part and this with an article, Article 49, introduces for ratification the memorandum of cooperation between the two Ministries of Justice, Greece and Cyprus. The seventh amendment amends Law No.3663/2008 to bring it into line with European Regulation No 1727/2018 on the participation of Greek representatives in the European Judicial Cooperation Unit. The eighth, which is the greatest, consists of Articles 54 to 97, and is the other provisions that came to be added after consultation in the legislation that we have finally received and discussed all these days. Article 54 redefined criminal acts for which victims may apply for compensation to the competent authority shall be redefined. With Article 55, it is reduced to half, in other words, EUR 50, the amount of the infringement brought against it together with the claim for damages. As we have said all these days, we would like you to see whether it is possible and to the extent that it can be done, to have a further reduction in the amount. The provision of Article 59, except for the general committee of the jurisdiction of the ordinary administrative courts, is still asking us to ask for the possibility of transferring officials from the abolished mortgages. We continue to want some clarification in relation to the reasoning that led to this provision. Article 61 provides for the one-off payment by the end of 2011 of the various remunerations of judges and staff of the Legal Board of State. Article 63 lists criminal offences and dismisses the criminal prosecution of fraudulent acts. Articles 65 and 66 amend Article 166 of the Financial Code with regard to the termination of bankruptcy. Article 67 shall introduce arrangements, inter alia, to enable documents to be supplied electronically. Article 72 extends until the end of 2021 the validity of the 2016 Successboard for the recruitment of peacekeepers in order. Articles 81 to 86 seek to settle matters relating to the conduct of the introductory competition at the National School of Judges, the right to participate, the five-member committee and all the relevant parties. In Articles 87 to 94, they attempt to regulate individual issues of the functioning of the National School of Judges. Article 95 increases the number of officials to eighteen from fifteen. In conclusion, I could not - in order to be monotonous - go back to the issue of the successors of the 26th Court competition, and I will come back, Minister, no matter how much you think this is over. In three different days, Minister, you gave us three different answers. The first time, you said that the delay in absorption would be due to the eighteen-month period of study at the school. Secondly, there is legality, without ever submitting any opinion, as I have repeatedly asked you to do. On Tuesday, you said that the competition at the Judiciary will take place every year, while the competitions of the Peace and Law Councils of the State do not take place every year and I am very pleased that this has been heard in public. Perhaps, then, it is time for a great change to restore this injustice. You also referred to those who were successful in the 26th competition, but at a time when the FEK number 54 of 27 January 2020 referred to them in a ‘Secretary of Appointments’. Why, then, if there are no appointees, are competitions reconstructed? It is time for this tactic to change, it is time for the table of nominations and the School of Judges not to take place every year but to be new only after the previous table has been exhausted, saving money from the NRP that could well be channelled from elsewhere. The principle of equality also requires that this should be done. It is not meant to be appointed and to be called again and again to test. They're included in FEK, Minister, and I'll submit it to the Minutes as soon as I'm done. It will not even need new FEC, it has already been published. At the same time, incorporate peacekeepers into the National Court School, where two standards will now apply. In the direction of peacemakers, extend the table until it is exhausted. In the direction of judges and prosecutors, the list of nominations shall be valid and examinations shall be repeated every year. Minister, you who are fighting so much for law and law, don't you think that this is unequal and unfair? For the record, of course, I would mention that while you say that the competition takes place every year, in 2015 it did not take place, and in 2016 there were two competitions. The National School of Judges suspended its operation from 11 March of the current until 1 June and from what I learned there were only some online lessons, while the students will make up for what they did not carry out the next period, as will be done in all other fields of education. If the rest of the hits begin immediately, there will in fact be a parallel education with those starting in February. It's an ideal juncture, so there's no theme of a fast track series of judges. But neither was the second series of 2016 that lasted for 14 months instead of eighteen was a fast track series. The school has the means and the necessary staff, so that students are fully and fully trained. That is something we all know. Because at all the meetings and committees you have shown a willingness - and we have to acknowledge it - to listen to our proposals and to find fair solutions and because many documents have been submitted for the better evaluation of the matter, we invite you at the very last moment to rethink the matter a little better. After all, let us remember that the same thing happened in 1996, on the mandate of Mr Evangelos Venizelos at the Ministry of Justice. The benefits will be many. Direct absorption of judges, speeding up justice, fair reform work, jurisprudence of successful, smaller expenditure of the NRP and their exploitation in other areas and many others. We have retabled this amendment and please and we expect you to accept it. We have also tabled another amendment concerning the criminalisation of opposition to auctions, introduced by SYRIZA, and of course the New Democracy continues, including the crime of the reaction to auctions in the auctions, to the exceptions to the limitations of a large number of faulty offences introduced by this bill. We also hope that she will be accepted. Minister, we are sure that you will eventually do the right thing and the right thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, asked for the floor. Mr. Velopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start by informing the House that ten minutes ago my former New Democracy MP, Haitidis Eugene, an excellent man, called me, and informed me that at the moment we are talking here and we are telling ours about the Ministry of Justice bill, the bulldozers in Himara are opening a road and demolishing houses at the request of Rama. I don't know how satisfied New Democracy can be with everything that's going on in its governance, and I don't know what party movements New Democracy has done. I repeat, it is a complaint from a Member, your own Member, who called me a few minutes ago. Let the State Department see it, let the Prime Minister see it, because it's not a simple matter. They're our brothers, the Northcontinentals. We have given them decades under Hoja's "botta", we are now leaving them under the "bottom" of Rama's drug dealer. At some point, the persecution of the Greeks, and Greece, as a country to be absent, will stop. The Minister, who is very sympathetic to me - and I have said this again and I think he is one of the most honest ministers and MPs that New Democracy has and I know him personally - said to me 'will you talk about the bill'? To speak, my Minister, but what can I say? That you are baptizing all illegal minors? What can I say? Come on, let's say it. Come on, let me talk, let me say that there's a twenty-five-year-old dagger, two-foot feet, allied with mustache, saying he's sixteen or seventeen years old, and you believe him. So, what should I talk about? That age can't be proven by the documents, why doesn't he have documents? That we're a clear-cut vine? That in any case if a citizen goes out on the street and doesn't have an ID, the police arrest him and take him to ID, see who he is, check him out. This is where the Greek state legalizes an illegal act. He tore up his legal documents, man and we say, "How old are you?", he answers "sixteen", "you look twenty-six", "I am sixteen", he says. That's not happening. And on the other hand, there's something worse. Instead of closing the NGOs, Minister, you made a show a few days ago, you went to three NGOs, you did checks. You didn't tell us what happened with the NGOs, you just did checks. You are legalising the presence of non-governmental organisations as charitable to the various minors, that is to say, the burglars, who will state what they want. I do not know, I believe that this story, namely the legitimisation from the back door of non-governmental organisations in the Greek courts, opens the academy of Halos to find him in front of us. We'll find him in front of us. Instead of closing down the NGOs that are slave trade, you choose the path of legalization in the courts. I don't know how you thought about it. Article 16. Legal help, he says, to illegal immigrants in criminal matters. So they'll steal us, rape us women, steal the sheep like in Moria, steal the vineyards like in Richona, and send them a free lawyer to protect them! You don't do that for the multitude, and you do it for them. Tell me your logic to discuss seriously, Mr. Colleague, what we used to call it before. You used to tell me. Now you're telling us differently. No, you used to say: 'Get out the mosques and out the illegal immigrants'. You are now: 'Welcome illegal immigrants, welcome mosques'! And I won't say your name so you won't say personal things. You were saying it, and I was listening to it. We were next door. You didn't grow up so much, I didn't grow up and I got Alzheimer's. You said it. So now you come and tell me we'll pay them the lawyers. Pay the lawyers! Are they coming out of your pocket? Some lawyers in here are interested because they're also getting money, I get it, but there's home. Article 46. In the Greeks, you set an income criterion. There is no care and care for third parties, Minister. And I say that much for me is over two kids. Don't be fooled. They don't have kids anymore. It is not third-party, it is not even all the conditions for third parties to get and collect what they have to collect. I've been telling you two kids and they're more than tense. It has the care and care that the state understands that demographic is our country's major theme. SYRIZA says so too, you say it as an excuse, because the Greek population is ageing, we need 'blocking' as if we were plants. The Prime Minister said so too. It is the culture of 'blocking'. He's proud, he says. No, I say: I encourage the Greeks to give birth to Greeks, and if I can accommodate everyone I can, I can accommodate them in Greece. Yeah, one another and the other. But legally, not illegally, not to Hellenize them as PASOK used to do for those who came from Georgia while they were not Pontius, nor to legalise and Hellenize some who came from Afghanistan and make them Greek with Greek citizenship, as New Democracy did with its law. What should I talk about? Each government gives sentences. Here, in Article 63 and Article 64, it is a mess. You're going to be my new Friday. Unfortunately, I say this, but with this bill, you are the new Friday. What you were saying in an election that Paradise with his law was making evildoers and various curious ones with the beneficial provisions, you repeat it with the same bill. I mean, you're talking about decongestion of prisons and agreeing, but we can't get out a killer or a drug dealer. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u26	Where is what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u27	Where should they go? I'll tell you where they're going? You didn't change the law on Fridays as far as I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u28	It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u29	Do you change him, Minister? No, it remains the same welfare. How many years does the rapist get out?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u30	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u31	Because when we say life, ladies and gentlemen, we mean life. The mother of Topalude and every mother who suffered what she suffered - I wish she wasn't your daughter, sir, I have a daughter and wish no one's daughter wasn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, the Act of Friday had limited effect. It's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u33	I'm talking about life.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u34	To facilitate the process...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u35	Well done, Mr President, but a request. Don't let another president interrupt me again. Please very much, Mr President. No other party president does it, but you only do it to me. Not you, all of you, and Mr. Tasoulus. And I have great patience, I can hear you as much time as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u36	We all respect you, Alas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u37	So I'm talking about the rapists in Topalude, the two men, the monsters, that they'll come out in ten years. Who are we kidding? Drug dealers are coming out. Do you mind the type or the substance of the problem, ladies? The point is that I mind, not the guy, I'm not a lawyer like you. I'm not a lawyer. I know in ten years the rapist will be out. I know. Go to the Topalude mother and tell her. Go ahead, go to a woman who was raped to tell her that, that the rapist will come out or the drug dealer who murders our children. I was nineteen years old, I lost a friend - drug best friend, gentlemen, and the dealer went out in five years and was sharing drugs. It was in my neighborhood. Do you understand what bothers me? But when we say life, we mean life they won't see the sun again. That's it. The one who takes life, the one who rapes a woman, the one who is a pediatrician, has no right to invoke pity. It's over! He's an inhuman monster. That is our view. If you disagree, yours. You don't stop what I see... Mr President, please tell the gentleman not to sit in the Prime Minister's chair. That is unacceptable, Mr President. These things are not institutionally done. Am I right, Mr. Polakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u38	I went before and said so to the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u39	It is institutionally unacceptable, unless we voted for him as Prime Minister. I don't know him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u40	All right, go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u41	Let's actually go. You don't stop prosecution for the auctions, Minister. Why? Does it bother you when someone protests that they're taking their house? Also, for the sentences in quarantine in the areas of worship. You don't stop them, you leave them. Papas, believers, bells and loudspeakers you're constantly chasing. Why? What's the point? That's what bothers me. What Mrs. Kerameo did in the administrations. It is a matter, my child, of chasing Christians who were married and baptized. Go after them. That's how Nero did it. What can we do now? He sent the document, Minister. Say he didn't send it? Let me say it. But he sent it. Let's get to the rest quick. I knew when I came into the Greek Parliament that we would have a war. I knew it, and it's a personal deposition of a soul. A fellow Member here - one of all - or the President of the party, and to say whether all his incomes have been controlled by the ADP from 2007 to 2014, -35 million euros have been made by my companies - or whether it has been controlled by the IEA and the tax office more than once - ten times I have been audited - and if it has been continuously checked by every government agency. I'm happy for that because there's nothing for me. I called the Minister to complain as a person about a matter. Because, Minister, I learned - to understand what country we have - that 22.00' Saturday called the ERR on television stations and sent e-mail - I have the e-mail - asking for the channels to which my broadcast is not transmitted, to send him if they play the "Contra and Rift" on the show. This was done on all the channels in the region. Tell me which service at 22.00 on Saturday sends an e-mail and she's calling. Who? The ERR, who never worked in his life. If the state were working while the ERR was working against me, there wouldn't be any bureaucracy. We'd all be done. I consider it unacceptable. I don't want to believe there's anyone behind it or anybody else. But I'll tell you something very simple. If a guy finds himself in here and tells me he paid tax for more than mine, I'll apologize. I paid 477,000 euros for the last four years. One to come out and tell me he paid more than I did. Three years. Last year I paid 200,000 euros. They come out of all kinds of "trophics" that have been filled and bred out of money and they say things. I say it publicly, Minister, because we'll find out in 2021 how many people got money from 20 million, gentlemen of SYRIZA. Mr. Petsas told us yesterday that in 2021 we will find out who took the 20 million, not this year, not now. Poor thing! Just so we know who broke their stomach with state money. It's not your money. And they all come out and say that I have fake degrees and they don't even be ashamed to say that my degrees are hacked, that I don't have a degree, that I have a lot of lies just to build up not what we say, but our physical status. It's not just unfair, but it's dirty and in such a political game I can't personally play, because personal reports I've never done to anyone as long as I'm a politician, just and unrighteous. I say publicly that it is disgraceful to have your own journalists out of your bands, the 'Arabics' - confronted by a good colleague from there, not unfairly because they too often play dirty, I mean in 'Paris', 'Parcasics', I say - who made an issue which was false, not just make news, but fake and slandering. I now have to sue and sue and wait in six years to be entitled, Minister of Justice, to a 'unique', which says they were wrong! That's not justice, Minister. I'm sorry, but it's not justice, because we're talking here today, but there's a lot of wood falling on Tino, Minister. You sent the MATs because the residents don't want wind turbines. You're filled instead with forests, Greece, with wind turbines. They've sprinkled all the mountains with wind turbines. Copilosus, Mytileneus, our own people, the great intertwiners set up everywhere wind turbines. Why? Tino, wind turbines. Evia, burned, wind turbines. The Unwritten wind turbines. That's where you're from, my Minister. Shame on putting wind turbines in the Agrass in the virgin forest. Where are the works of the Mytilinius - which took fire old - filled wind turbines all of a sudden. Against Patras wind turbines across Pelion wind turbines. What is Greece? Wind Generators Park? Are these the investments? With a worker? Because a windmill park has one or two employees, one guard and one who's hanging out with the guard. They're not jobs. And you sent the MATs. There was a lot of wood in Tino today. I'm saying, to understand why you're making mistakes too important. I wrote to the Prime Minister. You can't feed millions of big channels, colleagues in the New Democracy, because you want them to hold you all day and say: "Have New Democracy" and the regional channels not to do anything, to give whistle. Give June and July and August to regional channels, to have the same possibilities as large channels, to pay "DIGEA" 50% cheaper. Because there are two - three thousand employees there, and most of them in here are from a province. Regional channels are dying. Nor do they, like large channels, have the resources to survive. Help them. There are specific proposals that we sent to the Prime Minister. Last year the Prime Minister carried it out - in his honour - which we said a discount on 'DIGEA' 50%. Let's continue June, July, August. Let's do it. Minister, do you know what wasn't solved? I'll tell you what. Tourists. The Prime Minister announced yesterday's steps. For tourist escorts, he didn't say anything. He didn't say anything about school cans. Do you know that in the canteen people are paying hate even now, in the three months that were closed down schools, Mr. Comrade? People pay normally, though. Yeah, but they don't have a job. And they haven't got 800 euros and they're paying. These are injustices. We'll be safe. One hundred and thirty-three thousand unfinished pensions amounting to EUR 60 million - I have the letter here - from the Single Network of Pensioners. Why? For farmers - farmers - you are from a rural area, and so am I - why have you done nothing, Minister? You're from a rural area. I have heard nothing about farmers and farmers. Not a care. Something about 150 million euros, which who saw? They're gone. Why do I say that? You're being sloppy. You're being so sloppy. For the tourism sector there will be a problem of time with those working in tourism. You are giving them - quite rightly - the five-and-a-half-sample, eight-sample now, but they must have two years' badges to get unemployment funds. Now they don't work. There's no care. It's a terrible problem. "Definitions" you will tell me, but also ask this man who has no food, ask this man who can't - frankly - pay his taxes. And he hears the Prime Minister say yesterday: You may not have any revenue - because they don't have any revenue - but while you're intubated, get up and run to regularity. It can't be done. Intrusive is business. How can the man get up and run? He can't run. I'm talking to you about the businessman, like me, who's got 80% and more of my turnover. In Greece, because I have my business here. I didn't take them to Bulgaria or Romania to make more money. I left them here. Five hundred cooperating companies that live from my company, Minister, are here, in my home country, my Greece, which I love and I am taxed here. Let me find a Member of Parliament who has given insurance contributions of EUR 1,300 000 in recent years: The speaker! And I'm telling you it's because the money stayed here. I'm hanging up. Yesterday, I heard the Prime Minister. Many words, many "will", many promises. That is what I have heard and it seems to me that the quarter, which he says, is about his thought of elections. Honestly, the Prime Minister is a man I value him very much, I consider him a reformer, because he has another style in politics - that is true - he has a civil courtesy. But if he goes to elections in September - October - if he thinks about it alone, in the midst of a pandemic and in the midst of a crisis of the entire Greek society and the economy - he reminds me of previous politicians, not politicians. I also want a denial from Mr. Theocharis of his communication with the Turkish Minister for Tourism, which asked him for consideration of the Aegean and Asia Minor tourists. It was done, made public, and I expect him to say that he said 'no'. Because if Mr. Theocharis and your Government start to collect tourists in the Aegean and Asia Minor with the Turks, then the other gathering that some see comes from the "back door". I'm talking about oil and natural gas. I want a denial from the government that this is not the case. Not from you, Minister. You're not responsible. From the spokesman, Mr. Pecha, or Mr. Theochari. Turning off to say this. We entered politics as a Greek Solution, not to fight with you, but to fight you whenever you make mistakes, to suggest concrete proposals, to write them, to copy them, to implement them, but to the benefit of the Greek people, not for the benefit of your friends and friends. That's our difference. And you will always have a constructive dialogue from us and criticism. As for the friends who forgot their past, I can tell them this. It's not bad to forget your past, as long as it's bad. Your past, ladies and gentlemen - and I look to you in the eyes - was a good one. Now you have put 'water in your wine' and the wine has become water, too much water!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. We are now entering the circle of speakers. The first is Mr Athanasios Plearis from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, I would ask for an intervention to be made to put forward legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u44	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u45	I would like to inform the House that we are tabling the legislative improvements, on the basis of what had been announced, especially on the issues of legal aid and some minor changes that had to be made, so that they could be in the knowledge of all Members, so that they could finally be placed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u46	Please take pictures and share. Mr. Ploris has the floor for six minutes, with the tolerance we have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I am proud of the fact that all these issues have been dealt with by the President and friend Mr Velopoulos, who said that what was done in Evros was done by a certain government, which wanted to protect the country. I mean, for Kyriakos Velopoulos too - because I like to be fair - by following the controversy he had, that a false degree is obviously not there. However, even the alternative scenario which has been said, although a misinterpretation, I am sorry, is not a matter of political controversy. That's where I think the image of the fake degree is completely wrong. The question of whether or not a university was created is a matter of political controversy. But let's go to the inaccuracies that have been said. I'm going to have to defend even the Law of Friday in this piece. Because the Law of Friday can accuse him of many things, but what was said by this Stepma, that for a crime that came and troubled the whole society in ten years it will be out and think we have legislated, this, I'm sorry, but it's also wrong and wrong. With the previous Criminal Code, the penalty would be - we say the highest of the penalty, as was the case here - life and twenty years. That means sixteen years and seven. The conditional dismissal was not brought by Mr Paradoxopoulos. For a certain period of time it has been made better - we all disagree - but it is not now. Don't confuse it. In other words, the condition of dismissal would be twenty-three. With the criminal law applicable, the Kaloger’s Criminal Code, the sentence that was at the highest went, in fifteen years, instead of twenty, because in total, the government decided at that time that the temporary prison will have a ceiling of fifteen years. With the amendment that Kostas Tsiaras made on 18-11-2019 on rape because of the possibility of life for two and more people being raped. Theoretically, the framework of penalties could have been two times life, and there are still ceilings. The criminal legislator has chosen it. Whether it's right or wrong, you say it. But, in fact, don't say it'll be ten years old. The Law of Friday was a wrong, bad law, because it enabled heavy felonies to come out, but had limited time effect. It does not apply now. First of all, many years, Minister. Today and for me it's a long day, because I have a wife, a son, a father, and I have a birthday. So, I'm in a full edition festive. Now let's go to the bill and don't blame my colleagues, give me the time. I will deal with three issues concerning the bill, which have been said. The first thing. That is right - I will agree with the rapporteur of the Civil Liberation Officer - the lawyers are, indeed, one of the sectors that have been affected. Without getting into a trade union approach with the other scientists, we have been hit harder. At the moment there is no proper functioning of the courts. It is therefore very important that what was launched by the Ministry - I am pleased that the SYRIZA Members have also taken down the amendment, but it has already been in the process - by means of a legislative instrument for the definition of home. There should also be flexibility in the judiciary year in my assessment. In other words, on 1 to 30 July, and the start of the next court year from 1 September, without necessarily losing the court holidays, we do not know whether there will be a need for the courts to be closed down in a later phase - it is for the benefit, not of lawyers, but of justice, to initiate the procedure. A large part of this bill I would like to comment on - it has been said and you can see that, Minister, if you will - is that there is a great problem with minors. The other person enters and states an age and we are suddenly committed to treating this age as being the case - I was discussing it with our rapporteur, Mr Koutsouba, and with Mr Buga - and there are benefits from the Criminal Code for someone who may have committed a crime and cannot be determined. In my view, we could have a proportionate application here - I say to you, Mr Lappa - of Article 77 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which says: 'doubts about the defendant's identity'. What's he telling us? If there are doubts that the person who appeared in the interrogation is in fact the persecuted person, the interrogator or the court at each stage of the proceedings shall proceed on their own initiative to attestation, using all means of evidence. We could therefore say that if there is a doubt about this person at what age he is in - these will be difficult cases, marginal cases - instead of accepting it, there will be a possibility of applying Article 77 in order to exhaust any evidence which the interrogator may have in any institution to see the real age, so that people who are not entitled to, do not have this benefit. Obviously, we won't discuss it - because it was heard here - whether they have or won't have a lawyer. But that's just for the identities. I say, when he says age and there's a doubt. In other words, the equivalent of the identity card also exists for age. Apparently, all those on trial must have a lawyer. We're not talking about that. Because it sounded if we don't give or give. We're coming to the part of legal aid. Here, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I will disagree with what you are saying. First of all, let us see the legal aid as a whole - because I, too, regret what I am reading now at the Bar Association - and finally see whether there is or is not exploited in the part of the legal protection that is being given, the legal aid that is being given. In my opinion, if you want, whoever is present in legal clubs should also be excluded from legal protection. In other words, when you draw up the painting, it's a good thing - it's also a moral issue - it could also be a question of clubs - to be excluded. As far as the performances are concerned, they must be ten or not. Here, if you'll excuse me, I'll disagree. Bad lies, here there should be an adequate experience of at least every crime. So what do I mean? Obviously, for the crimes on the list or even for the interrogation, one could say that there is no need for an experience. But we can talk seriously when they're threatened for life. Not a postgraduate, but even a doctorate, to have, and be the best student in the world, or to be a perfect lawyer in civil law, who does not do any criminal court, can we seriously say that in this life-threatening man we do not put a criterion - which, if you'll excuse me, is very simple - ten performances in criminal courts?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u48	We're doing it five.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u49	We're doing it five. I, Minister, think that perhaps one or five performances will go to threatened life. Why, be careful, put the scale on. The scales here are not how the lawyer, who may not have representations, will be helped. The scale is that there's a defendant who's in the worst position in the sense that he doesn't have to pay a lawyer. So he's obviously a defendant who's in a difficult position. That is where I am trying to guarantee him - without underestimating any colleague - a man who has in fact gone to criminal courts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u50	For such a crime, which is threatened with life, a lawyer is required.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u51	I'm talking about the show, Mr. Lappa. Have the minimum performances. In conclusion, Minister, I have tabled a specific amendment concerning, in essence, the harmonisation of penalties under the criminal law, because we have in front of us trade union elections which have been suspended. But there is the paradox that, at the moment for national elections, the penalty framework is lower than the penalty, which exists in the trade union elections, with maximum sentences of five years. For this reason, both years have been in place for a committee of inquiry, but they will obviously have to be streamlined in proportion to the national elections. In other words, they should be inferior to the national elections so that we do not have this paradox that the national elections are considered to be of minor importance than the elections of the trade unions, but, at the same time, they should be prepared, in the light of the elections, with a framework that is fully in line with the trade union code. It is precisely the penalties that exist for all the other trade unions. Thank you very much for many years for those who celebrate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr Plouri, especially for keeping time. Mr. Paulakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, many years, Minister, for your nominal holiday. Be strong and strong. Unfortunately, I will be sorry for you today. To say many years to both friends and acquaintances, Constantine and Helens, who celebrate today. Minister, I'm not going to talk about the bill in detail, but I'm talking because since the mountain doesn't go to Muhammad, Muhammad goes to the mountain. We, as SYRIZA Members, have tabled a question, I have made references several times before, on a subject which, in our opinion, is very serious and which we have not heard so far. We've presented detailed data. It's all about you. It's about the prisons. It's yours, too. There is a 'grey zone'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u54	None!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u55	It's the anti-criminal policy that went to the Civilian Ministry, but anyway, you have custody of prisons. I say that it is a matter of the Ministry of Justice and I will say some particulars about you personally. Look. We have passed some legislative acts, which, because of the coronary and the necessity - and in some things we have put back - we have to deal with some situations quickly and a series of provisions need to be made, in order to move forward with certain protection measures in the country. The bad news is that there have also been examples in the case of prisons, respectively, where some people have set up a festival directly to some companies, with some prices unrealistic - and it is not just the problem - which is, in the end, and seems to be a smell of smashing public money. I've referred to health. We've asked questions, we've raised them, we're testifying again. The case won't be over. We won't let that thing go. Here we have the following. Mrs Sophia Nikolaos, Secretary General of Anti-Criminal Policy, commissioned the process of decontamination and disintegrating to a company called "Michaelidou Akaterini TRADE OF MONOPROSOPI IKE SERVICES" based on Gounari 89 Glyfada, with a first decision on 19 March, if I remember well. Watch out now. Because of the extraordinary circumstances, one will say that it has become legal. Wait a minute, though. One can answer the question of how this company, which, based on the Act of Establishment of 2-7-2019 and the registration in the General Commercial Register of GEMI, had as its object the organization of conferences, to proceed on 11-3-2020 to an amendment to the extension of activities, to add the object of the disinfections - defibrillations, etc. and immediately thereafter this company, which was holding conferences, gets a series of commissions - on 19 March - the first - worth EUR 145,000 each for the decontamination of their prisons and service vehicles? For what? What business demon is this, which, from the conventions, turned it into defiance, and in ten days' time is "sucking" three assignments of 500,000 euros? And with a wickedness: he takes them at a hundred forty-five, a hundred forty-five, a hundred forty-five. Because if he took it all together, he had to go to the Court of Auditors. What is spread is CEDEFOP know-how. We break it and we give it to you. Now, someone can answer me if they belong to this lady, her company or her father, who on his facebook page, who had - Mrs Michaelidis - said "the owner of the exhibition organisation". Here's some pictures of Mr. Mitsotakis' office, he's got a picture with you at a conference. Apparently, you visited the place. But we have some suspicions. He also has pictures of Kostas Bakoyannis, etc. I just posted it, the next day he'd downloaded the account. Because, obviously - I did a quick search - if anyone went below, he would see other evidence of relations with New Democracy. Take note now: In addition to the process of disinfection and decay, we had to buy cleaners. Here, things are even worse. Here a company is set up on 29-32020, which in its post to GEMH had neither mail nor anything. It shall submit on 30 March a tender. Where did you find her? There was a phone. The amount is committed on 2 April and 3 April, where it is also challenging that the invitation to tender has not even been made to do so on 3 April. So you want to tell us that on 29 March an EX PAPPA MONOPROSOPI IKE company is being set up with the owner of a Vassilica Papa - who is she? - You're looking for GEMH, you find the phone, you get them, and you're entrusting them with a job of 232,000 euros. In the meantime, it was the period when we couldn't find cleaners that were missing, which we had told to enter priced, etc. Where did the lady get those quantities? Because it's supposed to be for all prisons the disinfectants, cleaning. So you're giving her a job of 232,000. And he's got a price, which is what he's priced for a local grocery store. It's not wholesale. There's nine and a half euros a litre of alcoholic antiseptic. Oh, that's good, that's good. I know he's got two and a half euros. This says nine and a half. I say this directly: Whose front is this? Watch out now, other information from friends, colleagues in Chania, my acquaintances. They tell me: the first company, Mrs. Michailidou, was looking for a subcontractor to clean up, make the disinfection - disarmament in the Agia prisons. The Agias prisons are 12 thousand square meters and he gave them, he says, two pennies for two quadrants. Be careful: he was looking for a subcontractor and saying: I am giving 500 euros to make it two quadrants. I mean, a grand for Agia, thirty prisons like the Agia we have in the country, about so many, if I'm not mistaken, with thirty grand minutes, of fifty. Up to five hundred forty? Then we have the 232,000 cleaners, taken by a lady who doesn't know her born? All right, fine, get a direct assignment by invitation and come three offers from serious companies. Here, however, one of the exhibitions, had car sales, owned the company 'CORNER RESTAURANT', was a member of the company 'ARIS', had the DIOGENIS entertainment centre, had the building company 'INCOTRO CAFE', had also traded liquid fuels, also made disinfections - disinfections.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u56	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u57	I'm done. I shall submit all this to Mrs Papapas, where no man knows who she is, before she goes down. I ask again: Whose front is it? A question has also been tabled to the Ministry of Civil Protection. There was a gray zone if the anti-criminal policy belonged to you or if it belonged to the Justice Department. But I think you should be concerned, because the Ministry of Justice has to do with the prisons. We will not again make a new era of Abrahamopoulos anti-Grillus vaccines or advertising expenditures from CEDEFOP from 2012-2014 in the name of the coronary. Is that right? We said that we would put back on the treatment of pandemic and put our knowledge and our support in the most serious and systematic way. All this, however, not just must not go through, but should you explain: Are the insects done? One final question: In many prisons, he says, disinfections were made by the municipalities. Is this gentleman repayed for the disinfections the municipalities had done?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u58	Please complete. You're at nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u59	They are tough questions to which you must answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u61	Let me have a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u62	You've been talking for three minutes already. There must be respect for colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u63	Just a word. I cannot resist the temptation to refer to what happened yesterday. Can you imagine we did it? That is to say, one of our Members is voting in favour of opening up the ballot so that he can put the right thing back on the table. In elementary school, football clubs and everywhere they know that the polls do not open until the vote is over. The camera's recording them too, and we're being embarrassed and laughter and laughter of the world. No, he says, they won't. Who said, "No, they won't understand," that the camera was pulling him?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Polakis, the matter was resolved yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u65	It does not produce a legal result yesterday's vote. You know it very well that you, who are honest with the respect of the laws, while we are the Syrian socks! Here? This is where you close your eyes. Of course, there's an irony of luck. He's Mr. Kalogannis' son, who had loaded the poll in 1985...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u66	Finish it, Mr. Polakis. You've been in 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u67	Be well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u68	The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, many years from us at Mera25 to those who are celebrating today. As Parliamentary spokesman, Minister, I, as you can see, will not deal with this particular...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u70	I understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u71	Thank you. You said that last time. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Wing of Day25]] On the contrary, I will deal with the amazing - truly - return to growth, which, as you all know, was announced yesterday by the Prime Minister of the Hellenic Republic - Government. This is, in our view, a project that he really deserves to be played at all the summer movies. You know, in these summer movies, on whose ticket the Prime Minister himself announced the reduced VAT. This was the only real measure that the Greek Government took for Culture. We say that it really needs to be played in summer movies, because, in our opinion, this is a film of scientists - let me say - fiction, since all the Prime Minister's announcements are based on the excellent 500 billions of Mrs Merkel and Mr McCrone, which have never been agreed so far. They're proposals. We know - it is a constant tactic of our European partners - that these two are playing the good policemen, to come after the three bad policemen, who are Austria, Sweden, not to say these nice countries who love the South of Europe very much, to say 'white, veto...' - what they do not do, namely, the captive Greece, the captive Italy, the captive Spain - 'does not pass, they will not go anywhere, you will take nothing from us, above our body, these 500 billion.' Scientific imagination, therefore, when 500 billion is announced, which have never been agreed. It's a proposition. We know who the bad cops are to undo it. We've been telling you at Mera25 since today. Furthermore, it is scientific fiction, as these are added to the 24 billion announced yesterday by the Prime Minister, which, as you know, has never been and will never be. On the contrary, what we have actually seen yesterday was the wonderful - let me say - these blocks - I say it with love and compassion - of poor ministers who reminded me of schoolchildren who have posted their power points. Let's get the announcements in turn. Firstly and more importantly - because you are saying so too, and it is true - that tourism in the country and in the focus. They work, as you know better than I do, 35% of the country's workforce, that is about one million seven hundred and fifty thousand people. Due to the pandemic and protection measures against the virus, the capacity in the catering shops will fall to at least half -40% say the latest information - in hotels, as well as you know well - is expected to attend at most half last year. Therefore, inevitably - there is no way of doing things differently - some eight hundred thousand employees of our fellow humans will be found to fly to the absolute air without any protection net. What is the government's answer? It is the famous "SON-WORK" programme within the framework of, of course, the most famous "SURE" programme announced by Eurogroup, which will come up for Greece at EUR 1 billion, as the Prime Minister of the Hellenic Republic said with great vigour yesterday, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the presidential office.]] So we don't have to fool ourselves, we're talking about borrowing. You know very well that it is the lending of the European Union's surplus OAEDs, such as Germany and other Nordic countries, who will lend the debtd South OAEDs, such as Greece, Portugal, Spain and, as we all know very well in this Chamber, the OAED of Greece has no money. In fact, the Greek State will borrow, the OAED will borrow on behalf of the Greek State. The one who will be invited to return the loans will be the public of Greece. And it's a loan. So, on the one hand, this is happening. On the other hand, the figures are vague, because if necessary, even in this covered way of borrowing that I have explained to you and there is no point in the very fact that this is exactly what OAED is going to lend the rich German poor of Greece. And when, in a year or two, OAED comes and says'my money back', our OAED will not have one and the Greek Government will say: if, another reason we enter the fifth Memorandum, it is not just the rest, it is him. Apart from that, though, I have said that the figures are vague - that if we need to support the wage costs of seven hundred thousand workers, which I said to you that they are abundant from focusing and hotels, then we are talking - I am sorry to say that this is raw - about almost a billion per month and we are talking only about the workers in focusing and tourism. I'm laughing because I want to avoid crying in this Chamber. I'm laughing because, if you're facing some funny thing, you might not be uprooted to be rude. If the number of those whose work is directly or indirectly related to these two sectors - suppliers and others - is taken into account then it is not even covered for a month. The government is normally mocking the workers, it is making the Greek people in a normal way playing communal - let me express it - catastrophic, simply pushing the ground for the Fifth Memorandum. Secondly, the great EUR 540 that the Prime Minister of the Hellenic Republic - Government announced yesterday that for two months with great generosity it will continue to be given to people who are still in forced suspension of their work, it sounds terrible, let me say. How merciful is the Hellenic Republic - Government now? Does it give 540 euros a whole and, in fact, for two more months? Yeah, but for how many? How about for very few? How about for a few? Are the finest letters doing in innumerable cases a hundred of these? The most important thing, however, is how many. They are for very few, because, as you know, much better than I do, for most of us, this forced suspension regime has already ceased and since Monday, in three days, it will cease for even more as they open up major hotels and all restaurants. So this announcement from the Hellenic Republic - Government - could, after all, be called a little foolishness after this light, which I have just put in the case? So, what do I mean? Opening restaurants from Monday to work with 40% complete in their shops, it is obvious - and you also know that better than me, and I say this because I am a politician for a year, you most are years, decades - and you know well, so what these people will do to work with 40% of their customers. They'll fire at least 40% of their employees. As soon as that happens, they will have to be supported in another way. The EUR 500, announced yesterday by the Prime Minister, do not catch them, because they will no longer be workers on a job suspension regime, but they will be unemployed who will have been added to the hundreds of thousands of millions of our already existing unemployed. Thirdly, EUR 24 billion. That's what the Prime Minister said. Will it be a loan? Yes or no? With how much interest? We want to know. Is there going to be a new Memorandum? Since when? You're not answering. Very good. Fourthly, so nice things were announced yesterday by the Prime Minister of the Hellenic Republic - Government, but by HARAKEL he said no word. No, no, no, no, no, no, What's gonna happen? Are we going to give the 12 billion in the near future to the predators, who did not find a single proposal for them by the Prime Minister yesterday to say a single word? He really doesn't answer us at least. We've been talking about it for days. Let us at least answer one of you all that we are talking nonsense, that is not so, that we will not give the last 12 billion, which we do not have, we will borrow them, I inspire the predator funds. He's exposing you. It states that there is nothing to be done about the plan 'HERAKLIS'. You can - we repeat to the Greek people - with an act of legislation to end it today. You don't. Answer why or say we're being stupid or that for the first or second reason, what we're saying is not true. It is avoided, and this is two consecutive months. I shall conclude, Mr President, in about one and a half minutes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Fifth and very important, authoritarian or nonsense. Fools, as we have said, you are not. You have very bright brains and heads between you. We think it's autocracy. I mean what happened yesterday on Tino. We think it's an autocracy to be arrested islanders again. He didn't get his lesson - not you - the Prime Minister and the Minister responsible, what it means to an island, to go and arrest people who are protesting peacefully, because you want to bet on them all their mountain peaks, to get someone very rich parasitic little-governant infinite money, stifling and placing these miserable wind turbines. It has happened again, and yesterday, in the squares, it happened in Tinos, it will take place in Skyros in a short time, which I have been attending for years and, finally, this morning, it was done outside this wonderful wells of the House, who have beaten and arrested art supporters of art workers. They beat and arrested my colleagues, who had the courage to act either visually or in theater. It was a very revolutionary act. They were insurgents of these cities, and they had the supreme courage to let a drone fly from above, so that they could film their actions so that they could show them throughout Europe. You continue from a choice to choose authoritarianism. We know you're not fools. So, you're authoritarian. I'm closing and I'm leaving right now. If you continue to be authoritarian, not as faces, but as government, to a people who have taken everything away from him, it is fatal to be in direct danger. The Greek people can withstand it very much, but if the islanders are faced with autocracy every time they say "I do not want a closed structure on the island" and break them down - I mean the responsible Minister and Prime Minister - if the artists, who say "I will die of hunger" arrests, what will happen? He's in the police department the man who had the drone, a well-known man of the subsport art workers coordination committee. It is still possible, however, that it was found for hours at the Acropolis Police Department. He's been arrested. Don't go on with authoritarianism. Do not continue the excruciation of the Greek people with announcements reminding them of primary school students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, too. Good evening. Minister, Happy Birthday. Mr. Dermenzopoulou from New Democracy has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, many years! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the two previous speakers, I say to speak about the bill. The bill, which the Ministry of Justice introduces to our national law, incorporates important Community directives into our national law, validates the Memorandum of Administrative Cooperation between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Cyprus, and also goes on to critical reforms in the functioning and administration of justice. It is important to stress that the incorporation of Community directives is very delayed, as it was a loose end, inherited from the previous government. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we have shown a timeless passivity to the proper transposition of the European Commission's directives into our national law. This practice will have to be brought to an end at some point. At the time of tabling today's bill, I am convinced, Minister, that our government will be an example of crisis management and a model of sound legislation. Turning now to the analysis of the Community directives to be transposed, one sees a number of positive interventions which strengthen the rule of law while at the same time effectively protecting the economic interests of the European Union. More specifically, the first directive ensures the provision of procedural guarantees to minors, suspected or accused in criminal proceedings, while the second incorporation of a Community directive promotes common criminal provisions to all Member States with a basic aim of effectively protecting European and hence Greek public property. In more detail, this directive standardises as a criminal offence both cross-border fraud, VAT and inaccurate statements or receipts and retention of unlawful subsidies and benefits. In the third Community directive, which is incorporated into our national law, I would like to make a more extensive reference, as it focuses on building a more effective European framework for cooperation in combating terrorism. The incorporation of this directive demonstrates our country's desire to be burdened with the other European states in the fight against this morbid phenomenon, which directly opposes the rule of law and the very existence of our democratic state. Finally, the fourth Community directive aims to ensure the effective access of accused and suspects to a lawyer and to those wanted by a European arrest warrant. As regards the ratification of the Memorandum of Cooperation of the Hellenic Republic with Cyprus, I believe that no colleague should have any objection. In particular, at a time when there are major foreign policy challenges, initiatives to deepen cooperation relations between these two countries are certainly welcome. Finally, a number of long-term reform interventions are adopted in the last chapter of the bill. Initially, the creation of a direction of peacekeepers within the Judiciary School meets a consistent demand from the legal world, as in recent years the volume and complexity of the parties to the litigation disputes has significantly increased. In addition, it shall ensure that the number of members of the judiciary is increased, it shall respond to the expressed need for society and citizens for a more rapid judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill and any draft law submitted by the Ministry of Justice should not be a field of micro-political conflicts and populist acronyms. The main concern of all the political parties, beyond all our ideological differences, should be the formation of a functional and independent justice, which will be a key pillar of our democracy. In this light, therefore, I call on you to show a spirit of consensus and political maturity, by voting in favour of the bill proposed by the Ministry of Justice, as it significantly strengthens the rule of law, while at the same time healing the chronic diseases of our legal system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr. Dermenjopoulou. Mrs. Lykoule from the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u75	Happy and long, our Minister! And to our rapporteur many years, many years, and to all colleagues and colleagues, both throughout Greece and in the softest part of my heart, my son, who is celebrating today. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you know, it is nice to say human beings many times too. I was thinking now that I saw Parliament's Chamber, so with a few of us because of the pandemic, open to the doors because of the coronary, that at such times the air leaves and renews between us, but at the same time the booze flies, the stench that took us thirty years ago in a dirty '89, with unholy alliances, with people who sent other targeted people in the prisoner's galleries, with holiday functions and all that about the transaction. It may be that the air is renewed and all this may feel like it is going slowly - so it must be done - but, ladies and gentlemen, it must not be forgotten that the shadow of democracy is still plucked and shredded, licking its wounds. The awesome system ate a fierce blow to its soft revolt, and that is why we are all responsible for correcting it. I say this, Minister, with great respect to your face, because you are not an accidental Minister from your standpoint. If animus is democracy, corpus is your Ministry. You are a guardian of justice, so also a guardian of democracy! If we agree on this, then we have to agree together, but one more thing: What would you say, Minister, if you heard 'a priest stole the trap, a teacher was smuggling to students, a doctor traded organs, a lawyer was a gang leader, a judge orchestrated an offense', which is also day-to-day? As heavy and unscrupulous as these are, but he is "Minister of Justice does not respect the principles of good legislature". Why are you doing this? Don't tell me about the coronary, most of which are PDD! Don't hide behind our fingers, we'll look, we're even straight, Minister! On the type of sunshine, we should admit that the six second nature. You have poorly confiscated, without complying with the admissible principles here, 1/3 of the arrangements without consultation. Why? Shouldn't your Ministry, which we said was the corpus of animus, be a model of good practice, be a good example for all Ministers, for your colleagues? You must fight them, Minister, and say to them: not without consultation. You must observe them with your fellow ministers and not us. I'm saying this very respectfully, but you know - think a little - what do we want from you, really? Do we want to saw your chair, change the minister? There's a reshape coming. If I had any reason to say - but I have the legitimate expectation that the Prime Minister will not ask me - I would say that the Minister of Justice will have to keep him, he honors his chair. But is that enough? You're addicted and you need to get disrespected! You're addicted to bad legacy. You cannot bring provisions to Parliament - the Minister for Justice - without consulting them. Don't do that again. We have pointed this out and I really say to you that it is an example, it is the Ministry of Justice principle. I'm going a little further. Let me just say that I say this by right, if I may, because L.4048/2012 was our law, which was then abolished, as you know, in 2019 with L.4622/2019, with the final states, the staff, with your staff and the officials who did not want the good law and said "outside this, the citizen from the platforms outside and the MPs, if possible, will bring it." That's not right. So the soul of democracy holds your ministry. Bad lies, we said it was the temple and democracy, the spirit. So you have to be very careful about this. So I come to some codified remarks. Legal aid: crocodile tears for Brain Drain. Why are we defending new lawyers? Because they're getting legal aid cases. You don't know that? You know that. They're taking them. You did ten performances, five, as you say, to have an experience. An experience. We have thousands of trainees who went through the hands of thousands of lawyers. Let go, Minister, that's not the case. The glowing minds are brilliant minds. Our children are full of qualifications, postgraduate, doctoral and many of them have attended halls at The Hague Court. Let it go now if the children can stand in the trials or not. So don't throw crocodile tears that the scientists are leaving us when we don't claim them in these procedures. Legal aid should be different, it should be handled differently, as well as all cases that have been raised and are currently unresolved. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a moment. So don't show the cheese in the world and hide the lentil. So you say that we give and extend legal aid, but we also have thousands of files which are uncontrolled. What are you gonna do with them all? Really, how are you gonna manage them? The bureaucracy will drown you sometime and you need to see it very seriously. I come to the second remark. Audiovisual process: Now, you've suffered a lust with cameras. You put them in the police hats, you put them in school. You feed him and you feed him with the shovel of the Great Brother. Watch out, these things are neither easy nor harmless. Watch out, the streams, the currents that make the great rivers. Watch them. Be careful how rivers become torrents. Watch them. Good legislation also helps not to do this. You didn't give the emergency assistance to the lawyers. I'm not going to talk about voucher's Waterlo. I will not say that, I will not speak of the insult you have made to the scientific potential of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u76	Mrs Liikali, I am enjoying your speech, but you will have to complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, I shall end with two words. If you don't interrupt me, I'll finish. Butterlo with the vouches, so at least you need to restore it. You made two announcements. I will not say the dates because you know them since the beginning of March and you have still not restored the industry. Shame, that's. We, who are parliamentary representatives of a part of the world, are ashamed to explain them. Make it up, finally. To end this and Vatterlo's memory, at least. You also need to incorporate the proposals of the Union of Judges for the new era of teleworking in justice. Even, Minister, before, when Mr Paulakis spoke, I was listening to you saying that it is not your jurisdiction to deal with prisons. Yes, the issue of prisons really belongs to the Ministry of Civil Protection and Migration Policy. Take it, talk to the Prime Minister, talk to the ministers, speak to each other, speak to each other as you wish, speak, find it. Penalty does not belong to the Ministry of Migration and Citizen Protection, by its nature and by its very nature. I only conclude by saying this: The Minister for Justice is not a technocrat - you are not! - which solves small and large issues. It's something else. He is a guardian of the worthy of democracy, whose core has the cell of justice. It's your load heavy. I understand that, Minister. But that's the challenge, because you're tempting with history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Liikali. Mr Ioannis Bougas has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr Xanthiopoulos from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Bouga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the start of discussions in the parliamentary committee to date, the Vice-Presidents have focused and consistently reiterated their criticism that the draft law does not comply with the principles of good legislature, in particular by identifying in their criticism that adequate consultation has not taken place. This criticism, which they repeat, is unfounded, misguided and, I dare say, unfair to the people who have worked for the drafting of this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I address the Vice-President - a few days ago, the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs of the Government's Presidency issued this Manual on the Legislative Methodology. I suggest that you all obtain it, because the general principles and techniques of good legislature are described here. If you read it, you will find that the bill under discussion obeys all principles and techniques of good law. I dare say that it could be, given its arrangements, and a model of good legislation. So your criticism, I repeat, is misguided and unfair. Now, in the procedure on the articles, Mr Minister, we have the opportunity - as mentioned in the articles - to make proposals on the general policy of your Ministry, and that is what I shall try to use. The first 20 articles incorporate a directive concerning children as suspects or accused persons. These regulations are obviously correct and fulfil our country's obligation to integrate them into our national law. However, on this occasion I would like to say the following. The legislation governing the position of the minor assailant in Greek law extends to many institutional texts. In other words, apart from the basic rules in the codes, there are dispersed provisions in Civil, Criminal Law, but also in international conventions. Critical provisions for children, for minors, also exist in the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine and others. For reasons of consistency, functionality and uniformity, I would suggest, Minister, that this will be an important institutional initiative of your own and of your Ministry - to concentrate and codify all the relevant provisions in a single text under the heading 'Code of Juvenile Law', so that this diffusion, that of the provisions can be stopped.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u80	It's one of the things we have to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u81	So I think we agree on that. The second point I would like to raise concerns Articles 63 and 64 on the dismantling of judicial matters. In those articles, the suspension of criminal prosecution for offences and the limitation and non-implementation of offences for up to six months shall be laid down. The special limitation of conditional offences has been repeatedly introduced by the Greek Parliament. Minister, you have recognised and, with the boldness that you have seen, you have said that such arrangements are unfortunately alleviating citizens' confidence in justice and create the conviction that minor criminal offences are not punished and little penalties are not executed. I shall try to refer to the pathogen that has led to these arrangements. The Greek State, therefore, has been unable to fulfil its essential obligations since the 1950s. Therefore, criminal law was used as a tool for the application of laws in various areas of social life, namely the collection of insurance contributions, urban and sanitary infringements, the offences of the Road Traffic Code, even the non-payment of tickets, the non-recovery of tickets. So to date, I think that those who deal with both criminal law and law in general realise that there are a number of scattered criminal provisions which provide for penalties of up to a year of imprisonment or financial penalties. Instead of returning to a similar rule on limitations in the future, I would suggest that we consider seriously what offences should be involved in administrative infringements, treat them purely as such infringements, impose administrative penalties and, of course, proceed to a decriminalisation of the behaviour described in them. Another point of view is Article 62, which provides for an increase in the seats of judges. The aim of the increase, with which, of course, no one can disagree, is to speed up the administration of justice. However, on this occasion, Minister, I would like to say to you and to the House: On the basis of the information in the European Commission's report on the effectiveness of justice, published in October 2018, the number of judges in our country has increased in 2014-2016 by 25%. Also, in our country they account for 25.8 judges per 100 thousand inhabitants - an average of 21.5-, one of the largest. Unfortunately, I didn't find any evidence - I don't know if there were any - about how many decisions pertain to each judge. In addition to the increase in the positions of judges, we may have to consider increasing the positions of judges, adopting a way of properly managing the time of the judge, improving the logistical infrastructure of the courts, reorganising the legal spatial map and setting up specific parts of dispute settlement, particularly in objects, which have to do with great investment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In particular - Mr President, you will allow me to use one, two more minutes - it is Article 67 for the service of a document by an electronic caretaker. This is a noteworthy step in the effort to move to e-justice. This effort, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure it will be completed with the amendments, the changes to the Code of Civil Procedure, which I hope will systemify and improve the existing regulations. Apart from civil proceedings, however, we must also provide for the electronic delivery of calls, parliament and criminal judgments in criminal justice, Minister. This will not only speed up the award of criminal justice, but, above all, this is an important parameter, and I ask you to pay attention to it - it will relieve thousands of police officers, who are today responsible for serving calls, parliament and judiciary. I conclude, Mr President, by saying: Minister, the abolition of the compulsory representation of lawyers in drawing up legal acts imposed by the type of notarial document has caused much of the problems. Errors, sometimes contractors do not understand sufficiently the legal terms, which indicate contracts and assume on either side obligations which, as expressed in the contracts, create legal disputes. I think that experience so far requires that we review the conditional reintroduction of the representation of lawyers in the contracts. I would ask you not to treat this as a trade union request, to give some the opportunity to degrade it, but as a serious guarantee of trade security. It is also a oximomum to have to show mediation and not to have to show the typical legality of many times millions of euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Buga, please. You've gone far beyond time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u83	And only one word to welcome the amendment. Mr Minister, in fact, the order is restored, because, to date, the prosecutor for corruption and the prosecutor for financial crime has been appointed by the judiciary, the Chief Prosecutor of the Ice Bay was appointed by a single representative body, i.e. the prosecutor, with what that may mean. So you are right to restore the procedural order. Mr President, I would also like to thank you and my colleagues for their timely tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, too. Mr. Xanthopoulou has the floor from the Radical Left coalition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u85	I shall speak of a seat and not a step, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u86	You should talk for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot leave the fact that happened yesterday in obedience to and under the sights of all Greek society, that is to say the suspension of the vote, the opening of the ballot, in the name of "do not violate the secrecy of the vote". Every citizen and all of us were very awkward about this blatant violation of self-evidentness, and I think - and the citizen thinks - and I wonder: When these are done directly, what else can be done, in any case, in these types of formal procedures? And the worst is that the explanation given is worse than in this act, 'in order not to offend the secrecy of the vote'! There's a political problem. The government, in its longing, for there to be no leaks or even voids, has destroyed the basic, self-evident principles governing a vote. This is not even done in cultural unions in the last village of the country! Secondly, Minister, the courts are closed from March 2010 and will go until June. The issue of EUR 800 for lawyers is urgent. This is a matter which concerns, on the one hand, the entire Greek society and, on the other, the industry, which runs under the specific circumstances. He's in charge of your ministry and you need to deal with it immediately. They cannot be omitted, to exclude lawyers from this scientific allowance. Thirdly, the issue of elections in the Union of Judges and Prosecutors is open. Today they received a communication, asked you a question to meet both you and the Prime Minister, and it seems that they did not receive a reply. What you have told us here in the last few days, during the debate, is contradicting you and asking for a meeting with you. For institutional reasons and not only do I think that you need to respond to the Union's request and meet them. I come to these issues on today's agenda. As far as the part of legal aid is concerned, first of all we are all aware that we have a question of providing substantial legal support to people who do not have the opportunity to have a lawyer. And, of course, this institution must be strengthened, this institution must be enlarged, but not at the expense of the free profession, but not at the expense of the nature of the law, rather than on the basis of social criteria. Example, for the multitude, the LEAs, the single parent families, it goes without saying that there should be provision, so that legal aid can be operational. We disagreed with the five performances. You insist. Let me just say, in order to clarify, that at least the conduct of the law in the five performances is counted on the number of total performances, does not exclude these representations from the total number of five. Second, there should be legal club seminars...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u88	It's set.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u89	It is expected, so to speak. We said that, and I say it to be recorded. I am also saying this because it stayed in a 'grey zone', that there is the prediction that legal associations in the wider district should be appointed in legal aid, and I am talking about secondary trials. It is a procedural problem, but you must release it. Because, in practice, all secondary courts are appointed lawyers of the law associations concerned for practical reasons. Today, at the time of information technology, I do not think it can be dealt with in any other way than by e-mail. Finally, we know - and we have agreed - that the delay in repayment is actually erroneous, undermined the institution of legal aid. And here you need to see - you also have a policy responsibility - because in recent years the FIFG has been dramatically slowing down the number of repayments, and that is what you have to bear and you have to deal with it. I propose: Or give legal associations the payment of the remuneration, which they want...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u90	They don't want to!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u91	They want it, there's a proposal. I am speaking to you very much, but I am speaking to you as a Member, and I am speaking to you as a lawyer. So give legal associations the payment of fees and which are now accountable to the FIFG for the further period, or allow the state to set aside the claim of lawyers with the VAT of the next quarter. In other words, the next three months, since the lawyer has to receive legal aid, is VAT offset. And because there are lawyers who do not exceed EUR 10,000 and are exempted from the obligation to submit VAT, they can choose to pay their claim. The exceptional legalisation of the existing limitation, which has been respected by us and by Law 4411, must cease. Take the Justice Department an initiative, in cooperation with the lawyers and the federation of the judicial officers, to see how this thing can be dealt with, this unjust burden of criminal cases in the courts. The previous speaker, Mr Bougas, made a proper speech. It can be a basis for discussion in this regard. Finally, we insist that, in this story of the current limitation, Law 3500, domestic violence, should be introduced. They risk noting penalties under six months if you do not explicitly include them. We are giving a wrong signal to society for some offences that are very serious and which concern public opinion. Finally, I close, Mr President, by saying this. Let nothing be like and comparison with terrorism and civil rights. The Left has nothing to do with terrorism. The left is related to mass claims, to clear faces, to open marches, to citizens' faces on the streets and not to dark mechanisms. We are against the provisions that offend the mind, but we are together with the provisions that hit the act. So let us not make unscrupulous gatherings. Let us guard the core of individual and social rights and not contemplate the form of terrorism in every political and social activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u92	Thank you. Mr Lappas, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, thank you. I said on Monday, in my speech as a parliamentary representative of the SYRIZA, that, first of all, the felonies and rigour are not meant to be found in the field of criminal science and criminal law. For grassing it's only the packages. They must be assessed in accordance with the principle of proportionality and in accordance with Article 7 of the Constitution. If a social asset, social cohesion, social values, not moral ones, is unbearable. Be careful, I heard a colleague on a channel yesterday saying that something which is immoral must be fought by criminal law. No, criminal law is facing acts, offences of legal goods, as the criminal legislator defines them. I've been telling you a phrase that's old since Aristotle, even, about the rigour of the sentences. Montesquieu said that the great rigour when provided for by a criminal law system prevents the application and application of the provisions of the criminal codes, i.e. the laws. SYRIZA had and has a philosophy towards the criminal phenomenon: Responsibility of small and medium-injuriousness - with small penalties, that is, - and very strict treatment of very serious criminal behaviours. This is our general principle. In this context, we are dealing with all the initiatives which come and are being legislated in Parliament. This is how we deal with this bill. Secondly, bad legislation, Mr Ministers, does not belong so much to the fact that public consultation for a third of the bill has been omitted. He's been omitted, it's a bad practice, it's been a dozen times before. Here in the field of criminal science, I do not so much identify the bad legalization in what is a coup d'état. Damage or abuse of malnutrition is something else, constantly coming in criminal proceedings with various instruments and fragments to deal with them, creating new, as "milk villages" of criminal and procedural content outside criminal codes. We're talking about Chapter I of the bill, about the minors. I'm doing a prologue especially for minors. For the first time, the phrase 'right of minors' was adopted in 1994. He was introduced as an independent lesson at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki with a teacher, Mrs. Pittsela. What happened to that? As a result of the large UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which said that the child is not the small adult. After twelve years, during adolescence, we have a revolution, not just because of hormones. It's adulthood on a psychotic mental level. This is why the special law on the law of minors has been and has been enforced since the end of 1989 with the Convention slowly in the States. Our country - not late - was the first to establish the law of minors as a separate, special part of the law and imposed on the Criminal Code. Chapter I of the bill comes now, concerning the intrusion of minors. It's the first directive. I repeat, the minor is not a small adult. He is a minor with very specific characteristics not only of physics, but mainly of mental and spiritual capabilities and processes. The process of adulthood, psychologists and pediatric psychiatrists say, includes little insanity. It is the test of the great limits to its maturity and to those that he thinks are constrained. What can we do? Guys, we were all. Who didn't have a little offense in his life? But we need to see that this little violation is part of the process of ageing. That is why the criminal law systems are in a tactical situation. On the one hand, it is the protection of social goods with the threat of criminal penalties and, on the other, the great pedagogical and pedophiles who want to be treated only from a pedagogical point of view by minors. One would say that the assembling of these two basic needs and principles would be the ideal. I think the Greek criminal law system is one of the best in the world, Minister. But, I repeat, we have the Criminal Code, 121 et seq., with very special provisions. For years it has been said by teachers and great bright spirits. Manoledakis, Androullakis, have said terrible things about the invasion of minors. So this directive comes and look at what it does: While we have the limit of incapacity with the Criminal Code, which is the gospel of the criminal system in Greece, the directive comes and you set different limits. What's he saying here? Eighteen completed and downward limits of one tenth. It's not the directive or your bill. What will the judge apply? See what the fragmentation of legislation is doing outside the basic system, criminal and procedural law, which is not uniform? Why did they become, Mr. Ministers, Criminal Codes, after seventy-five years, and why did the previous one after a hundred and thirty-five years? In order to have a coherent, not fragmentary, homogeneous, given, concrete, for the enforcer and investigator of criminal law, a single text. And imagine that we have brought bills to the House on compulsory codification of law and law and good legislature at the same time. Because a good piece of legislation without coding it up. He's a Don Quixote windmill. So, why would I say, is it so mandatory to create now criminal-law provisions with separate legislation? Secondly, Mr Kranis, you compare Article 3 with Article 121 on the definition of minors. It's completely different. Furthermore, as far as Article 4 is concerned, reformist and therapeutic measures are concerned by criminal law and the Code of Criminal Procedure, first of all, and, secondly, by the principle of subsidiarity. Here in Article 4 of the directive, I don't know, it doesn't say so. I think that you do not bring it from a legal point of view so that it becomes beyond doubt that our own criminal law-enforcement philosopher and saying, a written guide, is always promoted for the minor. We also hear about adulthood. First the reform measures and then the incarceration. Not provided. In fact, our code provides the court with an own-initiative review of the terms and conditions on the basis of which the child will continue to be treated every year. Whether underage or underage youth from twenty - one to twenty - five years old. In another provision, this is decided by an administrative body, by the Central Transport Committee, rather than by the court of the Criminal Code. In other words, we are transferring judicial and judicial work from its natural judge to an administrative body, to an administrative body. Is that possible? It cannot be the spirit of the directive. Something else he wants to say. Let's go down. I'm always talking about juveniles. I say to you that, as your provisions seem to be, Mr Ministers, it seems that the rule is incarceration and reform measures is subsidiary capacity, while it is the reverse. In the Criminal Code subsidiarity is reversed. Here's a contradiction. Fourth contradiction: pediatrician. There is no study, research, a conference, not to say that child psychiatrist, child psychiatrist or psychologist always when he is present in the interests of the minor, primarily defends the interests of the minor and does not support the work of interrogation, which may be a police officer. The Greek law puts it that way. It is not understood that we have the psychiatrist to contribute to the interests of the minor and, above all, serve the interests of the person making the investigation. Contradictory and dangerous for the interests of the minor! Below, for the person sought, a simple provision: to the Public Prosecutor. What was it so far? After it is said in Article 121 et seq. How are we going to tie these up in a single, coherent text of codes that we say we want to have? Suddenly we see provisions, which are completely unravelled. Before I listened to Mrs. Lykoli saying about the Penitentiary Code. Last night I was looking for Article 8(3) of the Penitentiary Code, that the central council, i.e. prisons, is still recommending to the Minister of Justice how it will be implemented and what the penitentiary policy will be. Singer! Even this did not see in their violence carrying the day after the elections the penitentiary policy from where it should be where it should not be. Let's go to the other chapter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u94	You must finish, Mr. Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u95	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u96	Unless you want to take the denology too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u97	I shall also take my dentistry, Mr President. And I'll be done. The interventions that need to be made are very important. Especially for the first section, which concerns minors, we must be immoved. We cannot go beyond the provisions of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. Instructions cannot be so opposite to our criminal system. It's incomprehensible. Do you know why? Because for provisions in favour of minors, which fuel the thought of the legislator is not the politician, it is the teacher, the psychiatrist, the psychologist. Educational science told us what to do about the rights of minors. So look at this. It's very serious. I'm going to chapter two. The interests of combating criminal law against the interests of the European Union. Listen to what you're saying here. There is no article that protects the financial interests of a legal person, a citizen, an entrepreneur, which states that the criminal offence is based on the concept of supervision. But where, Mr. Krany? For example, 375. Management. If you do not want to replace supervision with management, put at least, "the one responsible, who has supervision and management". Because if you don't have the management, I'm afraid that when you get to the criminal court, Mr. Krany, there won't be any responsibility. He is responsible for the budget, the interests and the fund. So, how do we do it? Thousands are the decisions of the case law of the supreme cancellations in Greece. In the following article: infidelity. Article 326. Repeat the order of infidelity. You're doing very well. This is what the basic principles of criminal science and criminal law require. But now look at what is behind it, how occasional and opportunistic there was in the interventions you are actually doing to acquit bank managers. Make this self-ordered charge, you came with two PPPs to acquit and suspend the limitation and so hundreds of cases went to the file. Now you see that the directive still does not allow infidelity to be persecuted because it is a very serious offence? The banker does not manage his own funds. The banker administers funds from the Greek people and the Greek state. Therefore, it is the self - charge that is relevant to such a provision. I'm closing up with the fight against terrorism. And here, unfortunately, I see, Mr Kranis, a huge contradiction and contrast with the current provisions, even those that you brought in October 2019. I only have two points to make. First of all, we have a terrorist group and not a terrorist organization. Eureka, wider than the code? Especially extensive of the code. Superintendent in two elements. I shall speak legally here, Mr Chiara, so let me address Mr Kranis. While the terrorist group with the code Article 187A is defined as the one doing this, that, this is, here the directive - or rather your plan - comes and says what is not. What are you not supposed to do to be a terrorist? Can a definition of a terrorist organisation be given negatively? Listen to what he says: "It is a structured team and it is not occasionally formed and it is not required to have typically defined roles or follow-up or action", 187A, 187B of the Criminal Code. These are recent provisions. We've had a lot of talk about it. What does our article say? ‘To act jointly with three or four persons’. It says here 'coordinated'. I find huge differences with joint action and the term 'coordinated' which can also be of an opportunistic nature. Because our concept as a state according to the Criminal Code and criminal law, which is the sovereign law, speaks of joint action for a long time. Not just in tune. This would mean that it could simply be for a month, for ten days, considered a coordinated action. It's inconsistent. It's against the concept of the Criminal Code. Let's go to Article 32. I'd said it back then. What for us is to be seen as a criminal behaviour, which does not insult a specific act, as Article 7 of the Constitution says - in a way which is insufferable - is a legitimate good, but is to be presumed that it is intended to carry out a terrorist act in the future. Then. Now you're doubled. "Please take me, Costa, a ticket tomorrow morning for Morocco." Someone helps with issuing a ticket, for example, and gives it to him, who wants to make a trip to Morocco to meet with a terrorist group. We now have a square by turning on the purpose of one that helps another to make a trip. In any country. While he had to talk about traveling really in a country that would have a chance of terrorist activity. That's not what he's saying. It's a general trip. While the directive does not generally say a journey. It says 'travel to another state linked to a terrorist threat'. You come and you make it tighter. Strictness is not about lawn. It does not solve any issues at all. You will see that to the law-enforcement officers in particular, we will have a shooter here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u99	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u100	No more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u101	I shall close with only one sentence for the limitation of offences, the elimination of criminal offences and the limitation of penalties. This recurring tactic after the introduction of the codes and with the new institutions it has introduced is totally unjustified and I think it is insulting our rightful and legal culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u102	Thank you. Of course you've taken your dentistry as well. Mr. Tsigris from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, many years from my position. But let me say many years to all and all the fellow Members who are celebrating today and are many, but also my inability to convey my warmest wishes to all the Achaean citizens who are celebrating today. Minister, you bring in an important bill and it is one of the first to be able to deal with the problems, the aftermath of the pandemic, this crisis, which is afflicting us for three months. It does not only trouble the market, the economy, our psychology, our everyday life, it is afflicting justice and to a very intense extent. And some citizens feel this every day, let me say, 'in their faces'. That is why something has to be done directly, something effective. To give solutions to the problems that have arisen. Justice, ladies and gentlemen, along with public order and the Armed Forces, is the narrow core of the state. Why is the narrow core of the state? Because it produces nothing but a sense of security and a sense of justice. It only consumes, takes too much from the national budget, not only of Greece but of all states, but it actually offers a sense of law, security and the defence of borders. However, these must really offer them because they are very costly institutions. But justice at the same time has been quite rightly said that it is the last refuge of the weak. That's where the weak citizen will flee to find his point. And it must work for everyone in the same way, with the same measures and the same standards as the Greek Constitution says in its original articles. Justice must therefore be independent, non-aligned, and be awarded by qualified judges. Who disagrees with that? Yeah, but we have to do something to make sure they are. We need to draw up the judges, we need to speed up its award by means of institutional interventions, shielding the institutional defences of the state. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not stick to the instructions, because time is limited and I want to be consistent. But the directives are an obligation for Greece to be compatible with European law. This draft law gives answers to problems that have arisen. Didn't there arise, for example, a problem with the delay in awarding? Will someone tell me "this is something new"? No, it's something old, it's something that Greece has and has moved from generation to generation, from government to government. Yeah, but at some point we have to solve it. In recent years, ladies and gentlemen, Greece has passed some forty bills on speeding up the administration of justice, and you see that even today a serious criminal case will finally arrive at the Areo Ice and become irreversible, as the lawyers say, is going through about eight years. What is happening in this intervening period, which is huge, how much more for a man who is wrongly involved in the paths of righteousness? When will he get an answer? When will he be justified? But even someone who has committed a serious criminal act can even be released, creating legal insecurity, a problem in public order, insecurity in everyday citizens, in the daily lives of each of us. These must finally end. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, has been sentenced to five hundred and thirty-four times by the European Court of Human Rights from 1959 to 2018. Over these years, our country has been condemned, not only in words, to pay for the laxity of the heavily taxed Greek people, and it pays for the delay in the administration of justice. This delay must stop. This bill makes a start, ending criminal prosecution for some minor cases, and actually gives the possibility of deleting the sentences for cases with six months in prison, i.e. minor misdemeanours. Will anyone ask: will this dismantle the bottles, give the absolute solution to the problem? Oh, no! The problem is great, it is time-consuming and it is necessary, Minister, I know you hear and share many suggestions that Greece move on to what is internationally called the crime of behaviour. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have noted in the forensics that there is a procedure called a criminal flood. We have criminalised the whole behaviour, with the result that the large volume of light, misdemeanor and felony acts have caused a serious problem in stacking cases for years, resulting in malicious acts not finally reaching a rapid trial. This must end and end with a brave delinquency of behavior, which have little criminal print. In particular, administrative provisions could be made, having strict administrative fines more dissuasive to the public, more punishing to anyone who violates them. That is the only way to get criminal justice out of this problem. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the bill does not only give answers to the acceleration in the administration of justice, but also to better education from the National School of Judges, and that the training of the peacemakers, who are going to evolve, is now part of the training of the peacemakers. Finally, the increase in the organic positions of judges creates, in turn, the conditions for speeding up the administration of justice. We must welcome the bill and all that I could say to the Minister is that we must in the next one be even more bold, even more active, in order to put a definitive end to the greatest ganger of Greek justice, which is the delay in its award. Mr President, thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Cigri. Mr Pafilis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u105	Two words about the measures announced yesterday by the government and the Prime Minister in a situation like we will live in a different country. What are the main issues? Until now - I won't go back to 2009, but let's go to the coronary - sacrifices are demanded. By who? Who have all the governments asked for sacrifices so far? From the workers, the self-employed, the populace, the Greek people were asked for sacrifices so as not to collapse the weakened health system and now new sacrifices by workers and people, on the pretext of fair burden sharing. For what? In order to support the profitability of the companies. They've been "slipped" by the profits of some in recent years. On the tourism package, what's the government's line? Support for large monopolistic groups. For the little ones, for those who have one or two rooms, nothing was announced. These will be discussed tomorrow, of course, in the debate on the tourism bill. Support large monopolistic groups and large transport groups and cancel the health protocol. Isn't that right? Doesn't each other now get stuck next to each other in the planes? They are sacrificed for these interests and great subsidies are given to big capital. Who's gonna pay for this? Are they gonna pay for it? Will you raise the tax for them? Will you put them at 50% of those who are afraid now? Mr. Simopoulos, why don't you propose that? I'm not talking about you. I say it as an example. You're talking about a fair burden-sharing. Why don't you think that the tax will increase to those in this period of time? Maybe something like that. Not that it will change radically. Why, who are you calling again? The worker. So the people will pay and how will they pay? Many, with the abolition of collective agreements, with flexible forms of work, with the opportunity that you give the employer to do what he wants. And of course what will happen is that a very big part cannot live with these measures even with what you say. Reductions everywhere. You're reducing 20%. I do not want to analyse them because I do not want to eat the time. We want to ask you something. Really, the extroverted model and the heavy tourism industry he went to? ‘Fresh’. We have always told you as a Communist Party of Greece that if you don't develop the country's productive base, if you don't cover your own internal market, let's say it, and consumption in the agricultural sector and everywhere, tourism can become a bubble that if it shuts down, it will be a disaster. Is it true or not? It's true with the coronary pandemic or if anything else happens tomorrow. Do you remember what happened in Bali, which is one of the biggest tourist destinations? There was an attack - nobody knows, but they said even the competitors made it - and the whole economy was paralyzed and broken. What are we asking? Firstly, to ensure a decent level of life for all but all the workers and the unemployed. Secondly, we must abolish the legislative acts which leave workers at work to work. And thirdly, to cut off the debts of the people's households. Some direct measures are these. And what we tell the people is to think about what system it has to do, which has come to choose who dies and who will live, where all the myths of health systems have collapsed, who are constantly calling on him to tighten and tighten the belt and will never see a white day and when he takes authority in his hands. Finally, as far as the directives are concerned, I have not heard a word. Mr. Ciara said one or two things. He was answering to us and his right, of course. We have a different view. But the others did not say a word about European directives. Head on the right and step of goose. It is a law that the European Union is making. Nor should we judge them for the area of security and justice. Well, Mr. Lappa and the others, don't you see them? You applied them first. Don't scratch on the cup of chop. I will tell you later about the 'terrorism'. Can you not see that the so-called European law is increasingly moving in a reactionary direction and that national law is increasingly going to a second and third degree and that this law is being enforced to shield itself - it says - the area of security and justice? What can I tell you? Terrible safety, millions of unemployed, hungry, destroyed throughout the European Union, but safe. Of course, the attacks of the various 'terrorist organisations' are also being carried out. This is the direction, more and more reactionary. They admit it themselves - and the report says it - that they violate human rights all this time in the name of security! Now what can we say? There are serious things being destroyed and you cannot accept them like that. The issue of minors is not a matter of any kind. He can't determine when he'll have a lawyer and when he won't. Children are driven where they are driven and not born criminals, nor are any criminals born, but they are done. And whoever says he's born is in the theory of fascism, and I kind of say it. There can be no audiovisual recording. What is it? Mafias? It speaks of fraud against the European Union or harms the interests of the European Union. One thing is the eligibility of the works that cuts your cough and you'll be punished if you're going to make a conflagration. Because some, forced by the popular movement, were trying to do some works that are not eligible. And now they're talking about penalties. Of course it 'fairs the interests of the European Union', what exactly does it mean? A road opens very dangerous. And these have been recorded. I know them personally. I was five years in there. So if you make a symbolic occupation on a road that serves the European Union, it can wrap you up on a paper glue. Finally, with regard to terrorism, I would like to say: Mr Lappa, you did not say that the 'terrorist' should be abolished? Did you come and implement it and improve it already on the basis of the European Union directives? Leave the mocking and don't play with people who are sensitive to it. So let go of that. You have not only abolished any provisions you have denounced and above and above us - it is assumed - in the words and you have come to the government and implemented them. Cut the mockery with the opposition. When you go to the opposition you're against and when you're in the government you're in favor. And you defended here in the debate the new'short' that came with the European directive. We ask you this: is the threat being punished or the act? Is the intention being punished or the act? There are top lawyers in here. No, you can't trial anyone about what he's thinking or what he's gonna do. We - you know - with these issues we are very clear. We are opposed to individual forms of terrorism and all that. Those who have to apologize and are the greatest hypocrites are those who make these laws. Who trained ISIS? Where did ISIS go down and make all the massacres? Have the Americans trained or not their top executives in California? Were the leaders in relation to the secret services of the European Union yes or no? They've been revealed. They went for certain reasons, for Syria, to throw down the regime they did not like and to share. And now they say that whoever makes it easier for the other to go on a trip to... What's this? We're all suspects, and they'll all be practically suspects. By constantly amending the Terrorism Act, the People's Movement actually marks the point. I would like to say something else. He's not here, Mr. Floris. I hope he hears and comes. Mr. Undersecretary, let me point out that you hear us well. Mr Ploris has tabled an amendment with a legal masturbation. It was supposed to be an innocent amendment, and it was presented with a very large look. He thinks we don't understand the legal scam? Does he underestimate us? We don't think so. And we ask directly: Who or who does he want to protect and unleash by deletion? Come here and tell us. How did this amendment come here? Who wants to protect? And then I'll say. Is it the ones who were photographed in GSEE? Mr. Kutsuba, you don't know them. Unfortunately, for this gentleman and some others, we know them well. Is there anyone with whom he was photographing or someone in GFCM who's probably being charged with fraud? I don't want to say the following, because you're all going to find it now. And the New Democracy has deleted him. I'll say it. Are the defenders of the undivided union, photographed with some or some IAEA officials, now come to wash them out of monsters and places they've done within the trade union movement? I had the opportunity to present them when we discussed the situation in the GFCM. Monsters and signs! Three thousand builders in Kalambaka. What can I tell you? We had said it here, and they had been freaked out, and no one had spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Pafile, you can use your dentextology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u107	You won't have to. I won't make it up to twelve. I'll be done in a minute. So we say to tell us who the photographic amendment serves. The "film" we have. We've seen it halfway through. We'll show it up, and then we'll show it up. We'll call names and addresses. Because that is the amendment. Who's a working father or who's covering? Because it is an evil amendment, literally evil. You have to be legally well-trained, but not just to combine them. How's the poet doing, the depositor? Here's what he's doing. With the existing provision, anyone who falsifies or falsifies the results of elections to trade unions is punished by imprisonment at least - says the provision - three months to five years, which is about the faults. Isn't that right? That's right. With the Verse amendment, what's he doing? It puts on those who falsify or falsify a year's roof. In other words, it changes the 'up to five years' and takes it a year. And after he takes it a year, on the basis of Article 63(1), which comes to this bill, which will also become law, he writes down the blow. This article lists the floods that have been committed up to 30-4.-020, which are under threat of prison for up to one year. These are deleted. Did you see what a "cutters" look good? No one's got it. But we do not "slick our finger" and you know it very well. Mr. Minister and Mr. Kranni, we both know each other. Don't accept it. He's monstrous. You'll find yourself in a situation where you don't understand it and it's not just about us or the PAME and the JRC. You'll find yourself defending things defenceless and expose yourself irreparablely. Don't accept it. Don't let him in. Because you know that you will find it in front of you and too badly in your world too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, too. Mrs Mani Papadimitriou from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly because today is a great celebration of Christianity, I wish many years to the commemorators and, of course, to the Minister for Justice. On the occasion of my position today, I would like to address a great thank you through my heart to all those who are at the forefront of the battle, defying all risks, even their health and their lives, so that all of us can be healthy. I would also like to thank my fellow citizens in Pieria who have respected the rules throughout this period, so that my country, the beautiful Pieria, is one of the most secure destinations in our country. Of course, a great thank you to all Greeks for their responsibility, the solidarity they have shown in the battle against pandemic, an effort that has been recognised worldwide as well. We are therefore proud to be at this point today, and we owe this primarily to all Greeks, but, of course, to both the Government of New Democracy and the Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Now, in the current draft law of the Ministry of Justice, four Community directives are incorporating into it, which regulate a number of issues. The main thing is to protect the rights of children who are accused or suspected in criminal proceedings. The fight against terrorism and fraud against the European Union's financial interests, as well as legal aid for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings and the execution of European arrest warrants. It has been said from the headquarters of Officerial Representation that the rules of the correct legislature have not been followed. But, on the one hand, there has already been an adequate debate on the content of the directives at the meetings of the committee responsible. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that when we incorporate Community directives we have little room for manoeuvre. On the contrary, I should like to point out to you that these directives were pending by the previous government, which had to have incorporated them into our national law, so that, on the one hand, there would be no risk of the country being opposed to the Union and, on the other, that our country would not be threatened by the imposition of fines. In the last part of the bill, provisions are laid down, which are decisively confronted with perhaps the most important path of Greek justice, which is nothing other than the delay in its award, and which, in fact, often leads to issues of opposition to Article 20 of the Constitution and Article 6 of the ECHR, the European Convention on Human Rights. Article 62 provides for an increase in the organic positions of judges. Sixty-five new posts are foreseen, while second grade prosecutors' posts are redistributed, which has repeatedly been the request of the Association of Prosecutors of Greece. Of course, I could not refer to the provisions of Articles 77 et seq., which are perhaps the most important part of the bill. These articles provide for the establishment of a peacekeeping direction at the National School of Judges, so that our peacekeepers are given high-level education and training. It is a regulation that is necessary if we consider how wide the volume of cases handled by the peacekeepers has been extended in recent years. The establishment of this section will undoubtedly contribute to the more effective and more rapid trial of cases brought before us by our country's pacifist courts. Minister, at this point I would like to point out that there is also a need to further strengthen the secretarial support of peacekeeping courts with human resources. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you for accepting the request by lawyers for the housed postponement of cases, which have accumulated throughout this period, as well as for the reduction of the level of the income of legal aid beneficiaries. These are measures that will certainly support the law sector. I would also like to repeat a request from the lawyers, the representation of lawyers in contracts, at least part of the contracts, to some contracts, a measure which will certainly also contribute to the security of trade. The big bet, however, on justice, what will really bring about radical changes, is to further digitize it, starting with the current bill and the provision of Article 67, which for the first time allows documents to be served by electronic means by the judicial curators. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government, along with the protection of public health, has tried all this time in the pandemic to make the crisis an opportunity. And he's doing it. It values technology and digital media for the benefit of the citizen and moves forward in modernising the operation of the state, which was a taboo in the past for political leaderships. Digital governance, electronic issue of certificates, intangible prescribing are only some of the important innovative applications promoted by the government. And not just that. It practically supports tourism and the economy in general with significant amounts, which now amount to EUR 24 billion, as the Prime Minister himself announced in his speech yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, let us send a message from the Greek Parliament of unity, optimism and hope to all Greeks, to all our fellow citizens. Let our homeland continue, despite all the difficulties expected because of the pandemic, to be the bright example that shines, as they shine in the sun, throughout the entire inhabited earth, a few days ago, the Parthenon's marbles. Let the opening of the sacred rock be the symbol of our return to normality. The Greeks can do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, too. Mr. Vassiliardos, Parliamentary spokesman from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, many years to all the commemorators, including the President of Parliament, Mr Tasoulus and Mr Heta. We will now start with the reintroduction of our proposal to provide legal aid to third parties and multiples without income criteria, especially in the very bad situation that our economy is today. We will also mention some of the main reasons why we will not support the bill: Firstly, for Article 3, which states that if it is uncertain, on the basis of medical examination, documents or other evidence that the person is over or under the age of eighteen, it is presumed to be minor, with the result that all illegal young immigrants who arrive in the country without documents are considered minors. Secondly, Articles 63 and 64 which cease persecution and give rise to penalties. So justice is gradually weakened, and as a result the bill contrasts completely with its own purpose. Of course, there are other articles to which we have referred in the first debate, either the President of the Greek Solution or our rapporteur. So we don't want to repeat ourselves. We are now going to continue with the Prime Minister's politique yesterday, which, as has been used to us since the beginning of the pandemic - which has not hit us to a great extent, which of course applies to all the Balkans - has been accompanied by new electoral facilities. What we expected, of course, was not only the announcement of benefits, but especially the way they will be financed, because we all know how expensive we paid the "received" of George Papandreou. How much more so when we and other parties have asked, both us and other parties, the Minister of Finance about exactly how much budgetary measures will be for 2020, because they increase the deficit, so public debt, which is already in the stratosphere. We never got a reply, and yesterday we announced new benefits. So we have to ask him again, although we are not going to get any answers again. As far as their funding is concerned, it will certainly use at least around EUR 20 billion of the reserves of the public institutions, which SYRIZA inherited, and we assume that it will seek additional loans from the markets, by charging Greece even more. All this, of course, if the benefits announced are made, as well as if it were in addition to the previous 24 billion, which he announced about a month ago, reaching 48 billion euros or almost 25% of our GDP. In the end, of course, it will resort to the German ESM and new memoranda, which means that the citizens who are now happy about the new benefits - and they do well - will lose their homes and other assets. We are likely, of course, that the government has taken its measures, that is to say, that it plans to call for elections, by imitating Mr Tsipras in 2015, justifying them in the same way, that is, that the conditions have changed and that it cannot implement the budget it has tabled, its programme or something similar. In addition, it feels strong enough as regards its electoral power because, on the one hand, it prevented the entry of illegal immigrants into Evros, on the other hand, Greece did not have much of a coronary situation, while Greece has shared too much money to the media for its projection and for the manipulation of its citizens, but also to dozens of advertising companies that first filled Greece with "We are House" and today "we remain at a distance". However, the influx of illegal immigrants into the Aegean continued, the government transferred a large number to the inland by creating thirty-two structures throughout our territory, the Turks increased the pressure on our airspace, for the first time in Evros and in southern Crete, while our economy is heading from evil to worse, long before the coronary appeared, already in the fourth quarter of 2019. The government, however, considers that none of this has been understood by the citizens, that they have been blinded by its alleged successes and by the continuing loan benefits, which reflect its relatively recent past. Such parties rarely change. They never change. They remind us of the time that it did exactly the same driving Greece into the excessive debt of 2009, while two years later in bankruptcy with the signature of the criminal PSI, with which it handed over the keys of our country to Germany, our national sovereignty, while succumbing both to Greece and to the Greeks for at least the next hundred years. However, we are sure that the Greeks have not forgotten anything at all, while they have learned many of the ten years of deep crisis and impoverishment, which have been preceded by their robbery that continues with the sale of public property and the auctions of private property, which they gave two months of extension, as if Greece were going to get rich, from the exile of their five hundred thousand children and from their international humiliation, while they understand that the problem is not solved by the waste of borrowing money they will be called upon again to pay expensively. Therefore, when the government makes an election, it will probably be the same fate as this Mrs. May in Great Britain, which also considered itself almighty. In addition, we have asked for a new budget, after everything has been changed and we need to know where the country is going, something that IOVE requested shortly later, without getting any answers. So the government did not give the slightest meaning, which confirms that its objective is no more than the elections to mislead the Greeks before the disastrous effects of its policy come to its surface. In conclusion, we are also asking for an objective state balance from the first day of our entry into Parliament so that we know what we have except what we owe. And recently, in the debate on the surplus fund, which is controlled by foreigners - it is not ours, it is controlled by foreigners, along with all its assets - we asked whether the same thing has happened with our energy reserves. We asked it clearly. The Minister didn't answer here either. We didn't get any answers at all. This is the real situation in our country, a German colony and not the media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. Mr. Hatzigiannakis has the floor from SYRIZA for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the process is a little different today. The truth is that I really enjoyed the placement of our parliamentary representative, Mr Lappa, perhaps by a professional perversion. Probably because I had Mr. Helmet upstairs. He was prosecuting like a criminal court. He showed, Minister, how important the consultation is. And consultation is not just important guys. It's obvious why he's gone to our fairness, and it's compulsory for the bills to come. Consultation is important and, in practice, because it helps you as a government to improve the bills you bring, especially when consultation takes place with bodies who know the subject, who live it every day. And just the experience and knowledge of lawyers who have exercised criminal law and have dealt with these things in practice, shows that consultation is essential. Today I wondered what I heard from the majority Members, because while we were steeply mentioned - not that we did not talk about poor legislation, but it was not the main one - the bad legislatures were heard more from the other parties of anti-population. They probably had it written in their reasons and referred to the Civic Opposition. The whole Opposition spoke of a bad legacy, despite the fact that I do not think it was the major one - and I will agree with Spyros - of this bill. On Monday in my speech I said - and I really heard your speech, Minister - that this bill did not in many respects have an ideological sign. And I also made a reference to the question of terrorism, not to clarify, obviously, the position of SYRIZA, which, anyway, we had proved as a government up to a year ago. However, the transfer of certain conditions will create problems, as it has many times created. For example, the term of coordinated action is unacceptable, because it is so broad and vague that - we have a bitter experience, namely - to prosecute innocent people who will ultimately be acquitted, but who will have eaten too many years of offenders for offences that do not fall under terrorist provisions. Our right, in fact, is quite strict, to prosecute real terrorist acts and there is no need to tighten it up with new provisions, even if we baptise them 'incorporation of a directive'. You know the instructions aren't in Greek, so their transfer often can be adjusted with our own data. And we have to do it. This is about the part of terrorism. I did not have time to deal with the issue of legal aid last time. Minister, whoever has been in particular in a criminal court, in a felony - and I think most of my colleagues have been - realises that this is not a pleasant picture. It's a problematic institution. And I understand the anxiety, because there are two aims of legal aid. The main objective is the defendant, or in political trials and administrative trials, for the perpetrator and the citizen to have legal representation, as each of our fellow human being has, because it is a basic principle of law. I understand that you want adequate legal representation. I understand that. However, this has to be done - and this is where the consultation comes back - with a change in the institution, which we must very seriously begin to discuss. We have been saying for too many years - not as SYRIZA, as lawyers - that the institution of legal protection is too serious and shows the sign, which we have as a society, as a civilised society. We must study him very seriously. So you can start working on it in a serious consultation, so that we can come up with a system that will serve the citizen in particular. Minister, because you are the Minister of Justice and you are a man who comes seriously to the National Representation and supports the bills of his Ministry, you must answer what our rapporteur, Mr Kalamatianos, and many colleagues of the Anti-Population have told you. Lawyers, mostly from all scientific branches, have been subject to the greatest blow, because the courts were closed. It's very simple. We are victims - like the rest of the scientists - of joking with vouchers, which I do not know whether they had a scandal smell or not, but which was insulting all the scientists in the country. At that press conference, the Minister for Labour said we would enter from May. We don't have any briefings. We're hurt. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I understand that some colleagues who have not dealt with the courts - may have counselled their lawyers - may not have been hurt by them. Such a provision can also be provided and any benefits that colleagues will have at the end of the year with their tax declarations can be offset. It's too easy. But we can't be parols. We cannot join as a affected sector. If the courts are not closed, who are the lawyers affected? A very small remark, Mr President, and I beg your pardon. We also wanted to bring in the amendment tabled by the Change Movement. For the workers of KERANI they are mainly. Look at her, Minister. She's serious, she's right, and we think she can be accepted. I will now close with a very small reference to yesterday's vote. It's not that much substance. It's the message we're going through to the citizens. There have been such procedures. Most of you in here are colleagues and have been elected as judges. There's been so many times. There was nothing wrong with a void ballot. However, you have shown - the majority of the Greek Parliament - that you do not care about the law, that you do not care about the procedures. That is the message that goes through towards society and we must take care of it. I said last time that we were an example or should be an example. It is actually a matter of perception, because it would not even affect the vote. Watch out for these. We must set an example. We cannot say ourselves that the laws apply to everyone else, but not to us, and that the majority is it, which determines what is right and what is not. The law must apply to everyone, and from now on we must set the example first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u114	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, although it is unfair to those who are next, we must all make an effort to keep the time. Mr Tsavdaridis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u115	Minister, I wish you many years and well, in health, as well as many years of wishing the holidays and the holidays throughout the country. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last year's Eurobarometer survey shows that Greeks consider Greek justice to be independent to a greater extent than the corresponding European average. This statistic is not just a finding. It's a hope and a commitment. It is hoped that our legal culture, as a pillar of democracy, freedom, creativity and security, remains strong and enjoys citizens' confidence, despite any problems in time. It is a commitment, because our legal culture needs to be continuously updated, deepened and enlarged, precisely to continue to enjoy citizens' confidence in conditions that are constantly changing, but also more demanding. In this direction, micro-politicals do not think they have a place. Our political system has the responsibility of achieving the consensus mastery in order to properly treat the pathogens of years and this draft law - moderate, targeted and complete - has the opportunity to contribute to this objective. In order to happen, however, this requires responsibility from everyone, a responsibility, which appears to be lacking from the Qualified Opposition, which even now, in the face of a targeted piece of legislation, has found a way of criticising every science. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, on the one hand, you are saying that the government is implementing legislative initiatives that had been initiated by SYRIZA government and, on the other hand, you blame the Government for destroying the provisions of the state of service for good lawmaking. Is that a serious attitude? In other words, on the one hand, you say that we have been late to bring your own efforts to a vote, and on the other hand, when we bring them, you are giving up because we have brought them into a pandemic. What, anyway, do you want? Of course, it is well known that your opposition strategy is exhausted in blind criticism of everything. Unfortunately, however, this does not find any ground in the Greek society that has learned and taught you. The bill, which we are debating today in plenary session of this House, essentially concerns the incorporation of European Union directives and the speeding up of justice in our country. It is, on the one hand, a legal obligation for our country to the wider European family in which, on the other hand, it acts an obligation of the country to its own citizens to speed up the administration of justice, to dismantle the veto, to facilitate the implementation of its decisions on the benefit of the social whole of our own democracy. It is of fundamental value to establish a common framework of rules to combat terrorism by standardising as criminalisation a number of offences related to terrorist activity, but also to strengthen international cooperation to deal with it. In particular, legal aid for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings, as well as the systeming of the institutional framework for the provision of legal aid to suspects, accused persons and wanted persons in the process of executing the European Arrest Warrant, is particularly beneficial. Therefore, any attempt to criticise the opposition is probably being made to be a shadow. As far as the issues of speeding up justice, as they are analysed in the relevant provisions of the draft law, is there any criticism to answer first of all some basic questions: do we want or do we want to give justice more quickly? Can we stand still in the face of the delay in judgement of cases which is quasi-punishment? Of course not, because veto is directly against the rule of law. This bill creates new conditions for reducing it to the benefit of Greek citizens, especially in an extremely sensitive period of time in the middle of a pandemic. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that at least this approach should be a common place for all of us without ideological perceptions and it is a wish that a new piece of legislation to speed up justice in our country has already been put into consultation. This is another clear sign that the Government of New Democracy raises justice issues very high on its policy agenda in its daily effort for a better Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Mylonakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, many years for your celebration. I wish many years to all the colleagues who celebrate and all the Greeks. We are discussing a bill, ladies and gentlemen, which I think has been analysed in detail at six meetings. In his honor, the Minister brought a bill, which did not come in the form of an emergency and a fast track. He had issues that we could discuss. Other issues were in the right direction. There were, however, serious issues which should not be embedded and placed in this bill. In particular, we must pay attention to these European Union directives. I will agree with the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party, Mr Pafile, that it is not possible, whenever a directive comes from the European Union and must be incorporated, that we see nothing more than incorporating it immediately or delaying it, that we have penalties. Every time a directive comes to see if it is in Greece's interest, if it is in the interest of the Greek people, if it is in the interest of the Greek people. I'm going to analyze a few things here. They talked to top lawyers. I heard Mr. Lappa say the Greek legal system is the best in the world. Yes, sir. Mr. Ploris told us not much or much that the Law of Paradise, Mr. Minister, has nothing to do with the law of yours, and indeed he also invoked the President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, who said: "Children, we did not see much differences from the Law of Paradise in the new law of Mr. Tsiaras, who brought him here". He is not a lawyer, he is not a lawyer, as I am, but I think, ladies and gentlemen, we must speak the voice of reason. You know what? The Greek people expect us to make sense. All right, there are well-established lawyers, they can be very easily and beautifully involved with the laws and I will tell you two - three examples I have seen today. So what did Mr. Floris say to us? He told us that it doesn't matter if life isn't life. Then, my dear Mr. Plori, which I think you're going to follow me, what's the point in putting life in the Criminal Code? Let us put directly 15 years in prison at the highest, twenty years in prison, but be done. We are not saying this because I have told you again that the voice of reasoning must coincide with the voice of the people, Minister, and, unfortunately, in this Chamber - so I want to believe, I may be wrong, but I think I do not - the voice of reason and the voice of the people embedded in a voice, in the voice of Greek Solution, which only says what the whole world thinks. I will say something about my good friend, Mr KINAL's Parliament, Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou, who has insulted us not much or much and has incurd those who did not participate in the process of extending the indictment of Mr Papagelopoulos yesterday. I have to say this, and I tell everyone: The Greek Solution doesn't get into anyone's toys or show. And I ask: What was the gain yesterday for the Greek people and Greece, Mr. Minister of Justice, what was it? If we were to come to this Chamber a year and a half ago, we were watching both of us, Minister, from the gallery and there, Mr. Kalogeropoulos, and Mr. Papagelopoulos, next door, and in this place, the position which is in SYRIZA - where Mrs Rapt - you were sitting, the New Democracy was sitting on the one hand and we had the government, the then government of SYRIZA at the time - to have made no reason and without any evidence of ten people in the handkerchiefs, to protest these ten people in the handkerchiefs and, instead, to look, you are now coming out of their handkerchiefs - and you have done good, because there are no evidence for people - and to put in the handkers a man who has served justice, who is at the moment in his west and to throw everything on it. And I ask the Greek Solution, and that's what the President of the Greek Solution said yesterday, so we left: The profit for the Greek people, Mr. Minister, what is it? Is the Greek people going to get the money back, where we all say he's lost? Weren't billions lost? We didn't all agree on the Greek people, did we all say it was a big scandal? Will we ask NoVARTIS for the money stolen from the Greek people? Not so far. I don't know what New Democracy will do tomorrow and I wish she would. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] So I say to Mrs Giannakopoulou that we left because we cannot stand this show, that is, the Greek people should not take the money back, the New Democracy should not ask for the money back, but at the same time want to put a former Deputy Minister of Justice in prison, who without anyone knowing anything else planned and executed this entire outrageous circuit. Well, no, even the President of the Officer's Representation, Mr. Tsipras, says "I, too, want to be next to Mr. Papagelopoulos, because I knew everything and myself to be tried" and you don't like him and you want to participate in this show! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. No, never! A thousand times to be sad, a thousand times, but the truth is one and the voice of the people is: "Get back the stolen ones!" This is what the people say, the people do not say "play games and take all of them out!" That was for us. I have, of course, responded - and I am closing with this - to Mrs Giannakopoulou, who has insulted us or insulted everyone who has not participated in this show. Well, you're doing the Change Movement and the New Democracy and you're participating. Besides, that's what you wanted to do, that's what you do. What we say, Minister, is that you need to see two things in the bill again. As far as this is concerned, it is a mockery. They're not all juveniles. A minor is the one who proves himself to be a minor. So when I say fifteen and have mustache and beard, I'm not a minor. So that is what is happening with illegal immigration, that's what you're going to cover. And the second one: why should there be legal aid? We have already said that Parliamentary representatives and our rapporteur and the President of the Party have no legal aid from the third parties. Why wouldn't the multitude have legal help? The only parent families why not have people who do not deserve it? Because they come into our homeland, they stay inside. What, to perpetuate and legitimize them, Minister? If you think that's the case, I think you should see it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u118	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mrs Rapti, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor now. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u119	Madam President, Minister, dear Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Nadia Giannakopoulou, I wish you many years first! Take it from me too, accept the wishes for health, strength and creative cooperation! Ladies and gentlemen, it has been thoroughly developed during the debate we held on Monday at the outset, but today in the debate on the articles that this bill makes a decisive contribution to modernising justice and, at the same time, to strengthening international cooperation in very important areas of law. And I would like to sincerely congratulate the Minister for Justice, Mr Chiara, whose whole debate has proved to be intent on shaping draft legislation with the opinion and intervention of colleagues from all Parliament's wings, so that we can all help in the effective functioning of the administration of justice. And it is important that we have been able to agree, as Parliament has been able to unite on several of the issues that have been raised beyond each's different ideological and political positions, precisely because they were of common sense, such as the issues of legal aid, the increase in the organic positions of judicial officers, necessary elements to strengthen the role of justice and many more. It is also very important, contrary to what has been said so far, that we have returned to sound legislature rules. This was because we were given the opportunity not only to discuss in detail, as I said before, at the outset, but also on the articles in two meetings, which - I amazed at - had to do more than ten years, but we also met four times in committee, and then we had the consultation, which, despite what has been said, has been carried out for a long time before Easter and, of course, has been completed at that time. And it was obvious that some articles relating to justice would come today for discussion and vote before us. But let's not look for enemies where they don't exist. With the incorporation of the five Community directives into our national law, a common framework of important rules is laid down. I would once again like to focus on Articles 29 to 40, which concern the integration of the Community directive on combating terrorism. As I said in the debate at the outset, we have a very important and noticeable gap here, which the international community is now trying to build. And he is trying to build an effective tool to deal with this phenomenon, but also to support and strengthen international cooperation. Terrorism, like any populist and supposedly radical narrative, aims and tries to strengthen in periods of national and global crisis, as is undoubtedly the period that we are not only a country but also a humanity. Terrorist organisations are investing in the crisis and the difficulties that this brings people, precisely to draw up their ideological legitimacy. As we have seen - and this has been a tragic finding in the events of Bataklan in Paris - terrorism ceases to have an autonomous and domestic character, but it is becoming increasingly cross-border which requires coordinated action between States in any case and through the consolidation of legislation. And that is what this bill does - and rightly so - standardises as criminal offences in Articles 32 to 35 the facilitation of travel with a view to terrorism, as well as a number of other offences relating to terrorist activity. Equally important are the specific provisions on international cooperation, and especially the provisions on access to and gathering information, in order to effectively enhance such prevention, the famous prevention of terrorist acts. Our country needs this legislation, because we have been mourning victims of this inhuman and fierce terrorism for many decades. And the important thing in this bill, in Article 40, is that we take care of appropriate medical care for free immediately after the terrorist attack on the victims of terrorism. You know, psychological support, as well as post-traumatic support, are as important as assisting in conducting actions for damages. And here I would like to say that a basic task of the Greek state, which we all have to strengthen, is to detect those cases that so far remain in the dark, so that we can restore the credibility of the state to those who have been most affected. Ladies and gentlemen, the Community Directive 2016/1919 brought together a great deal of discussion before us on the issues that mainly concern the experience of lawyers involved in legal aid, the level of the incomes of people who have this right to legal aid, but also the level of the annual remuneration of lawyers who are involved in this process. And, of course, on the question of the experience of the lawyer, we have understood, precisely so that there is a common place in what colleagues from the opposition have proposed. We have thus limited the necessary representations of lawyers to practically five in order to join the legal aid programme. As far as income is concerned, we have reduced it to EUR 10 000 for those who are entitled to such assistance, without, of course, reducing the number of actual beneficiaries of legal aid to a large extent. Finally, with regard to the sum of EUR 20,000 mentioned in the bill as an annual catch of the lawyers participating in the programme, and this plaque was amended by the Minister to EUR 15 000. As far as the other provisions of the bill are concerned, I would like to make a comment on the great importance of increasing the organic positions of the judiciary as a whole in sixty-fifths, on the basis of what we have said in the election campaign, to strengthen the effective functioning of justice. And it is worth pointing out at this point that, beyond this request, which was also a request from the Union of Judges and Prosecutors for a long time, many other requests have been accepted, which shows that the government supports, in this way, everything we have said in all ways to strengthen justice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will also take the time of my dentistry. Finally, Article 67 on performance and electronic means is part of this endeavour to harmonise the institutional framework with the strategy for digitising justice. On the occasion of the Minister of Justice's statements on the overall attempt to digit justice - which I too warmly welcome - I cannot applaud the important work of the New Democracy Government in the fundamental area of digital governance. This project is being carried out in connection with our election programme and has been speeded up by the health crisis. At a stunning speed, we passed intangible prescribing, distance learning, distance work with teleconferences, digital surveillance of quarantine people, digital JEPs for citizens' service, the "ATLAS" digital platform, which will for the first time enable us to have digital pensions for the first time, e-ECCA to receive insurance information from the computer, the digital guise so that we can serve effectively from local DUs without visiting them, as well as the automatic renewal of unemployment cards so that all registered unemployed do not have to proceed to any specific renewal process. This leap of digital governance that is currently taking place in our country is anguish, Minister, to also exist in the bill that is currently being prepared in your Ministry and to have provisions in this direction. In the meantime, we will, of course, await the regulation you have mentioned in order to deal with the necessary procedures for the reopening of justice officers and to regulate, among other things, the issue that has been raised by the SYRIZA's amendment on automatic redefinition of vaporised cases, due to COVID -19. This addition, I shall say, is very clear in the right direction, since all these cases must be redefined, without harming the Greeks and the officials of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to vote in favour of the draft proposed by the Ministry of Justice in the belief that we are all taking a brave step together in a direction of modernising and speeding up the administration of justice. As long as I have served the legal profession, I can surely say that the citizens are asking the political system precisely that. The government is working with a plan which is unresolved and at a rapid pace with just one aim, the service of citizens and the incorporation of the rule of law. Let's go on, then, unscathed! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u120	Thank you too, my colleague. Mr Efstathos Konstantinides has the floor for six minutes from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, listening to Thanasis, the first rapporteur on the majority, saying that today is his birthday and that his father Constantine is celebrating, and so is his son, I thought that today we will be placed only those who fulfil these criteria. I have the same features today, birthday, father and son Constantine. Happy birthday to everyone, then, throughout Greece, but also to you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u122	Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u123	Other colleagues have finally spoken. Minister, you have really been strongly criticised for a number of arrangements concerning the Ministry of Migration Policy, Public Order, Culture, Economics, and even Sports, but not the bill. So this bill was widely accepted. I say this not because it is not customary for the whole range of political life to be criticised, especially within the House, but because I really believe that the substance and the changes made to this legislative initiative are wrong, both by integrating the Union's directives and by introducing new provisions and by modernising the existing ones. There has indeed been an exhaustive dialogue with debate in plenary and in principle, and I think that all aspects of the draft law have been sufficiently discussed. So I am just going to refer to what I think is more important than your legislative initiative. So I want to highlight Articles 1 to 20 with which Directive 2016/800 is incorporated and which include significant procedural guarantees for minors. Noteworthy is the introduction of an individual evaluation of minors by the Department of Minors and Social Aid. In addition, Directive 2017/1371, with the provisions of Articles 21-28, is incorporated into the internal legal system aimed at combating fraud against the financial interests of the Union. Furthermore, cross-border VAT fraud, which is punishable by imprisonment, is being standardised as a crime, whereas the provisions of Article 24 claim our legislative phenomena to phenomena, such as the submission of inaccurate or incomplete declarations and the illegal reception and retention of grants and benefits, are being asserted. In addition, another important provision is introduced with the incorporation of Directive 2017/541, with Articles 29 to 40 of the Bill in the fight against terrorism. Article 32 of the bill standardises the organisation or in any way facilitating travel, but for the purpose of terrorism, while Articles 33, 34 and 35 provide for theft, extortion and forgery relating to this activity. In addition, issues on international cooperation and access, gathering and transmission of information on terrorism are dealt with in Articles 37, 38 and 39 of the draft law. Particular value is also provided for in Article 40 for victims of terrorism, and in particular for the free provision of appropriate medical treatment, psychological care and support in actions for damages. Directive 2016/1919 is incorporated into Articles 41-47, which provide for the arrangement for legal aid beneficiaries and the conditions for the appointment of a lawyer in that context. I also think that the legislative improvements made in this area are moving in the right direction and mitigating any contradictions have been expressed. However, it is important that Article 48, which complements earlier transposition of Directive 2014/57, should also apply to legal persons in favour of whom market abuses have been committed. The eighth chapter contains provisions on the functioning and administration of justice. Here I would just like to focus on Article 54, which improves the framework governing the Hellenic Antiquities Compensation Authority and access to the principle of those who are beneficiaries of this provision. Article 56 makes this restriction of the 50 applicants in the annulment proceedings, just as in the case of differences in substance and does not deprive this provision of an essential dimension. Article 62 requires the redistribution of office posts to the second degree, which also answers the request of the Association of Prosecutors and the real needs. In Article 63, in fact, this also'storeyed a lot of dust' and I think it is unfairly - there is a practice that has been repeated and I think it was very limited this time, especially in comparison with the corresponding regulation of 2016 that SYRIZA had adopted. I think that there was also an unfortunate criticism in relation to the offences of domestic violence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. An attempt was made to redefine, but it was probably worse than the first place, since practical decisions under this legislation could not have been adopted during the period of the health crisis, since we did not have the function of the criminal courts. Therefore, we cannot say that in 2016 they had a certain perception of these acts and in 2017 or 2018 they were different. So I find here a - I would say - opposition obsession. I would not be referring to this, but I saw that both Monday and today the unfortunate criticism of this issue was repeated. Incidentally, with Article 65, a targeted but effective intervention is also under way in the bankruptcy procedure, and I think that will have a practical effect. It is a very important initiative for service by electronic means. If we really want to develop the issue of the administration of justice, we need to take such steps. And I sincerely congratulate you on this initiative, there is a need for more. Now, on the issue of peacekeepers, it is well known to everyone that the subject on which the peacekeeping courts deal has increased considerably, and therefore training, the better training of peacekeepers is very important. And of course this will be done through the establishment of the new direction at the National School of Judiciary. The fact, Minister, that basically the opposition only raised a point of objections, I think, demonstrates the value and scope of accepting the basic provisions of the bill. I can only wish you well! Be well, thank you very much!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Christos Kelles from New Democracy has the floor and will be followed by the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement Mr. George Kamines. Come on, Mr. Colleague, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of its term of office, our government has solved problems and promotes the improvement of public policies and the more efficient functioning of the state. With this draft law, the Ministry of Justice, on the one hand, incorporates Union law into national legal order, on the other hand, regulates issues relating to the functioning and administration of justice, with a view to optimising and speeding up procedures. Minister, no doubt during your entire term of office as the political leader of the Ministry of Justice you have produced a particularly worthwhile task and the main world of justice has found ears. I therefore believe that we are in a position to achieve even more and to improve the conditions for the legal world, which are, to a large extent, young people and who are struggling to establish hard-working workers in their industry. By the way, I would like to refer to the successors of the 2015 peace-keeping competition. Minister, these people were examined in the competition made by ECHR judges and professors. They've been rated and achieved. Article 72 provides for the extension of the list of successful tenderers until 31 December 2021. And then what? What's next? This is an issue that has also been discussed in the past. To date, about three hundred thirty have been absorbed and another five hundred have been left. Since 1996, which has been the first time in a tendering procedure, this table has been used up and since, to date, the majority of them are ‘9’ and ‘9,5’, why do you not use the table as it has been in the past? Under Article 75, you are creating the direction of peacekeepers at the Judiciary School, which provides for the opening of an introductory competition with Article 79. You are right and good, and this demonstrates the importance of those officials in the administration of justice. Why do you not foresee, in a transitional way, the ranking of the successful ones in the new direction so that they can be trained and then appointed, given that they have passed the competitive process? You're a man of dignity, and I think you'll find a solution. I come to two other issues that concern the legal world and have notified you of a corresponding document from the Larissa Bar Association. Article 43(3) states ‘the lawyers having 10 representations’. Now with legislative improvement you have done it 'five'. Since the Community's directive does not require the number of performances, and since young people are qualified more today and postgraduately and doctorately, should the five attendees be completely abolished and replaced by compulsory seminars - I say - organised by the lawyers? In addition, in relation to Article 45, the amounts mentioned correspond to the majority of the population. They are therefore all given the opportunity to resort to legal aid, but at the expense of the free professional lawyer who is not in the appointment situations. That is, bleeding matter. The Larissa Bar Association suggests the amount that is appropriate for legal aid, because it cannot go through with its economic potential in justice, and which, in order to respond to social issues, should remain in the sums that have been up to now. Let us not forget, Minister, that we are talking about a sector affected by the pandemic in the previous period and because the courts still remain, for the most part, closed, should lawyers be compensated for the month of May. Since we have found a doctor in the Ministry of Justice, should we heal, Minister, and condolence to the parents' children who are in a position to measure themselves by amending the relevant provisions of family law? Because in several European countries, such as France, Belgium, Sweden, this is compulsory and, moreover, the Council of Europe is in agreement with a decision adopted in 2015. Finally, with regard to the remaining provisions of the bill, I would like to refer to the incorporation of Directive 2017/541, to Articles 29 to 40. This is a legal intervention that is important to strengthen public and state security, which we had discussed and preferred with colleagues in the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly in Strasbourg last October, at our joint conference with the Council of Europe, on state security and anti-terrorism at interregional level. Through these provisions, cooperation between the national authorities of the Member States is promoted and it is important that with our partners we take an important step towards the effective strengthening of the security of the citizens of the European Union as a whole, at a time when the challenges at the common European borders are intensified by Turkey, which exploits the immigration issue, threatening our national security. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law undoubtedly contains provisions that will strengthen the work of justice and speed up its award, which will have multiplier benefits for the functioning of the public administration. That is why we are voting in favour of it, calling on you, Minister, to review the issue that I have raised to you from the outset, that of the peacemakers, because it is a matter of purely worthyness. In closing, wish you and your office many years, be strong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Kamines, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Madam President. From the first time the government took over and at least officially from this, Stepma had heard the Prime Minister announcing it and analysing it, the government of Mr Mitsotakis had committed itself to making good legislation and for this reason he had taken too many measures. The first was that it would form - as it was finally formed - an Prime Minister's office composed of four hundred people, so that we could formulate a government policy, as it had said. Government policy, whether we like it or not we like it, is mainly engraved through the legislation which each government is bringing to the vote on. So far, what have we seen? We have seen legislation, often written on the leg, which introduce a number of provisions, particularly as regards the official status of civil servants, but also on issues such as the conclusion of contracts, especially in the field of refugees. Every piece of legislation should reasonably be part of a government strategy, within a strategy of the Ministry that deposites it. I wonder, Minister, what the strategy of your Ministry is. And she can only be one. Be the strategy that will seek to eliminate the great source of maliciousness in the country, which is the slowness of justice. Slowness in the administration of justice essentially from a point of view and beyond, as has often been said, means vetoing, it means not giving justice. You brought us a bill of mediation months ago. At some point we need to listen, to the committee responsible, to tell us how you evaluate the results of this institution so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u128	You don't know that phase two had been suspended...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u129	To evaluate the results...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u130	We were talking about having more time. We went to 15 March to apply to the broad range of issues and all procedures were suspended because of krone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u131	If it seems early to you, we should invite you later, to expose the results and listen to our point of view. I fear, however, that if this central institution for resolving the problems of justice in the country you do not publish it as it should and do not take all the necessary steps to implement it to the widest extent possible, it will inert the inertia, become routine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u132	That is what I agree with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u133	Intermediation what is it? It is an alternative way of resolving judicial disputes, which means two pounds: the first is that it disproves justice. The second is that it also cultivates in society a non-conflictual perception of the resolution of disputes. It has a pedagogical character, especially for our own society. I see, then, Articles 63 and 64 that you have brought us here, which include limitations and suspension of criminal prosecution and limitations and non-implementation of penalties. In other words, once again, a phenomenon which, in fact, is a fragmentary solution, which also affects the sense of the justice of the world. You should tell us at some point what you intend to do or what you have done, for example, with the institutions of the criminal order, the criminal conciliation, the criminal negotiation, which are institutions that contribute to the decongestion of justice. But there's something else. What are you going to do with the institution you abolished? You suspended its application indefinitely. With public works, by Law No4623 you suspended the implementation of public utility work on the grounds that the municipalities were not prepared to implement it and were not properly implemented. So we expect you to tell us what you have done since, so that an alternative institution and it can be implemented. And listen to your opinion on government policy, as it has so far been implemented, on the issue of subtraction from your ministry. I would remind you that the awarding of criminal justice to its broader concept, of course, also has the part of the creation of the penalty. This part, the government from the outset removed it from your Ministry, as it traditionally prevailed in Greece and granted it to the Ministry of Civil Protection. What are the results of this logic? What he actually tells us is that the creation of the penalty is - at least at the moment, at this time - a question of repression, because that is the main responsibility of the Ministry of Civil Protection. What are the results? Are the results of the murder, the murder of a prisoner by a prisoner, as we saw yesterday in Larissa? Are the results that we've read about charges of penitentiary officials, that drugs are re-entered in the Koydall? The anti-crime policy sector will take even greater importance in the near future, because the economic crisis is again taking place, the recession is already here and we know that crime is actually increasing in such circumstances. Therefore, if we had any reason to talk about strengthening the alternative ways of giving justice and creating the penalty, today we have an even greater one and that is exactly what I said at the outset, the strategy of your ministry, Minister. So we need to set a date for the committee responsible, to come with calmness and soberness to hear what your balance sheet is and what your plan is for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, too. Mr Couvelas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u135	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, many years in Helen and Constantine. Minister, long time, health. I return to the Step of the National Representation under the new conditions of parliamentary reality and feel the need to begin by expressing my support for the families who have lost their loved ones from the invisible enemy. I understand that their pain is not softened by the fact that in Greece we have had much less victims than in other European countries. After all, when we talk about human losses, the numbers are superfluous. On the other hand, I would also like to express my thanks from the bottom of my heart for the missing heroes who have been on the front line for these two months: Women and men with green and white blouses, police officers, soldiers, porters, cleaners of the local municipalities who have given their best so that we all stay healthy and safe. We do not forget that in the frontline all this time there have been other workers who have provided services to all of us without fear of the battle that has been under way. Congratulations of course are worth every Greek and every Greek, who with unprecedented discipline and maturity made our country an example to be imitated throughout the planet. We have proved how much we can achieve when we are united and especially when we want it. That's how we stayed at home and we got winners out. We are now going to another phase. We got out of the house and we find our new everyday life, but we keep up with the rules, so we can stay safe. The government and the Prime Minister personally show increased reflexes throughout the health crisis. As Kyriakos Mitsotakis pointed out in his announcements yesterday, the aim is to convert the months that come to a bridge, which from defence to health will take us into the attack on progress. The transition programme from the uncertainty of today to the safety of tomorrow raises the total amount of the government's interventions to EUR 24 billion. A programme based on three pillars: work support, tax reduction, stimulation of entrepreneurship. It therefore strengthens the cohesion of society and protects jobs. It makes it easier for the world of the market to mobilize again. The heavy tourism industry and the focus will again be on the front. Very important is today's amendment by the Ministry of Interior to the tables, without any cost to businesses in the sector, but with respect to the public space. Before I refer to the provisions of the bill, Minister, I would like to point out that we have, as a government, to give more support to lawyers to cope more with the unprecedented financial difficulties they face after three months of total failure. The conditions we live today do not in any way resemble the abstentions of lawyers from the audiences. Now, the proposed draft law incorporates into Greek legislation European directives that increase the degree of confidence in Member States' justice systems, European directives whose transposition into our national law leaves no room for political controversy in fact. However, I should like to point out that the rapid integration of Community directives is a priority for this government and the Ministry of Justice, and this is a practice of good legislation. This is how other issues deal with minors in criminal proceedings, issues relating to the fight against fraud against the European Union's financial interests, issues on combating terrorism at European level. And this is a directive that we are incorporating last in Europe, despite the fact that the plagues in our country from terrorism are still unattractive. We must admit that it shows political courage and parliamentary culture, Minister, that you have accepted many comments by fellow Members and also by bodies put in the committee, on issues of legal aid in particular. I think that at the end of the day the relevant parameters have been well weighted, both for which lawyers can be appointed and for whom citizens can benefit from this. But I repeat that it is equally important that the compensation of lawyers serving the institution be immediately cleared up. Minister, the administration of the Thessaloniki Bar Association contacted me, and I find the proposal that deserves your attention important. It is the defendant's obligation to show the defendant's pleas in defence. The new Criminal Code has upgraded the importance of certain defects. We are therefore threatened with severe penalties and a real deprivation of the freedom of what will be condemned. So, in the minutes, I am tabling the document of the Thessaloniki Bar Association on this proposal, which I would like to see in a subsequent piece of legislation introduced by your Ministry for discussion. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kouvellas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This introduces electronic performance without additional costs for the Greek citizen if it does not thrive. This is also a reform in the direction of the new digital age. The direction of peacekeepers founded at the National School of Judges finally implements a consistent demand for judicial associations that has been supported for many years. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude by saying this. I think we all agree that it is an undeniable necessity to move forward with the speedy administration of justice, but with deeds rather than words. These last 40 years were aimed at speeding up justice and voted by the Greek Parliament. Nevertheless, we are constantly condemned by the European Court of Human Rights for the slow administration of justice. We're third from the end in forty-eight states. But this government has shown that it is taking bold steps and, above all, fast, for the benefit of the Greek citizen and in the field of justice. After all, as the Emperor Ferdinand said, "to have good justice and let the world be lost". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u136	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Now Mrs Biziu from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, many years, many years to all and everyone who is celebrating today. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going back to our parliamentary duties with a different reality. I would like to say how proud I feel that Greece has become a global example of crisis management. Our country, like any democratic country, recognises the principles of the rule of law and the protection of human rights as fundamental principles of its legal order. A primary guarantee to safeguard these principles is a judicial guarantee, namely the provision of legal protection. The provision of legal protection is an individual right guaranteed in the Greek Constitution under Article 20(1). The European Convention on Human Rights provides for the mandatory appointment of a defence lawyer, where appropriate in the interests of justice. The defendant must be facilitated in the preparation of his defence. But the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union also guarantees the institution of legal aid and provides for legal aid to those who lack sufficient resources, since this assistance is necessary to ensure effective access to justice. The free provision of a lawyer, where the defendant does not have the financial power, is necessary first and foremost in the interests of justice. The European Court of Human Rights has gone further and has decided that the state should intervene when the lawyer's inability or failure to provide an effective defence is evident. As a civilised legal order we accept that the use of lawyer services is necessary in order to achieve the genuine and effective exercise of the right of defence and, in order to be possible for everyone, we inevitably accept and adopt free legal support for those who do not have financial resources. It is important that citizens of a country feel that they live in a true state of law that enables them to appeal to justice, regardless of their financial situation. A credible system of justice creates relationships between the members of a society, between society and the state. Fair trial is not only a cornerstone of our legal culture and legal order, but also a cornerstone of a fair society, because it promotes the creation of a safe society. The justice system must be organised in such a way that, in practice, it provides the guarantees of a genuine fair trial, leading to effective protection of the person concerned. Otherwise, both the provision of the Constitution and the provisions of Union law remain void. A genuine fair trial cannot be achieved unless the quality and effective defence of what is accused of committing an offence is ensured. This is a fundamental procedural right. That is why the state guarantees legal aid to the economically weak. But is that enough in itself to fulfil the state's obligations as required by the Constitution and Union law? Professor and politician Georgios - Alexandros Magakis said that the role of the defender is perceived as the only social institution that directly expresses the special nature of our culture and the agonizing effort of man to do the terrible, and the one he judges, the work of awarding criminal justice. It is indeed a terrible task of giving justice and those of us as lawyers who have dressed up the role of defence have felt the anxiety of what is at the stand of the defendant. The legal representative must have the scientific and empirical competence to deal with and handle the legal aspects of his case. Without ensuring a minimal capacity to provide quality legal protection, criminal proceedings cannot be considered compatible with the protection criteria required by our legal system. Models for the selection and evaluation of legal aid can be found many and different from country to country. In some countries the citizen chooses his counsel, in others there are criteria for the lawyer's competence, while in others there are public lawyer offices, i.e. offices of legal aid, with sole responsibility for the provision of legal services to the economically weak. And that's something that maybe we should talk about at some point. A legal aid office and the defence institution would upgrade, but also benefit the public in terms of costs. My proposal, Minister, and I submit it to you today, is the establishment of a state legal aid service to the economically weak. Such an institution ensures that legal aid to be provided to non-units is both substantial and effective. I believe that this is how we will best ensure the social asset called effective legal protection and a sense of legal certainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Mulkiotis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, beyond the wishes for many years and your health - always be well! -, foreplay and before entering into specific parts of the bill I will say some things. The lack of consultation has been heard, and you have responded, as I have seen in the Minutes, that 'the social and political reality in which we live is a living process which, if there is a lot of time between the completion of the public consultation and the final debate on the draft legislation in this House, one must obviously include some other things'. But, Minister, thirty more articles have been added, one whole bill, another bill that you could bring it in differently, and it was not urgent. Why create these 'drugs'? In what sense do I say it? That when we say consultation, it is something very important, we all contribute, and it is good to observe it. We've seen multiple articles in bills, which we don't know how they come from and where they come from and we can't discuss.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u140	There's no meaningless article in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u141	I am not only saying this for this bill, but I say it for that reason, in the sense that the thirty articles represent at least a new bill. The second issue on which I wish to express my grief, Minister, is that of the lawyers - in particular the lawyers - and other scientists from the government, and I refer to the well-known vouchers. There was a mockery. I, too, would like to see political coverage in the sense of disapproval in some way, even if it is awkward. Of all, I do not think anyone will adopt the vouchers' logic. May this month is him, court suspensions are data, and you know it. You know it's directly connected to the lawyer's profession with the courts and when the courts are closed, there's no lawyer working. So what does that mean? It means there's a matter. Therefore, the promise must be made by the government in relation to the amount that lawyers should receive in May as an injunction. Thirdly, which I consider to be a black spot, is what has been heard by a prosecutor in the Joint Oath, in a trial of particular interest indeed for lawyers. Inadmissible! And because he is also a judge next to you, I would say, Minister: should the School of Judges read "The diary of a Pilate" by the late prosecutor Paul Delaporta, these judges who are now starting their careers, to see what a lawyer means and how should the prosecutor be in the Chair? The last thing I would like to say, to get into the bill, is that executive power should not interfere with legislative and judicial matters. It is, of course, unacceptable State Secretary in an ongoing trial to intervene and say anything he wants. It is his right to say anything he wants, but not in public. It is an intervention of executive in judiciary, at least, and I am referring to the State Secretary here with Prime Minister Scorcho. Minister, in relation to Article 44, which refers to the allocation of expenditure, I would like you to bear in mind that the reference you made to the CEDEFOP, that the CED will be charged to the CEDEFOP, is incomplete. Where's it going to be charged? Who? I don't have the guy? No one at all? Is it possible, or can you see it in a next phase, that process pre-checked? Or if it's not done, are there any specific sentences for the man who's lying? Anyone who is lying and comes to ask for legal aid, to know in advance that he will have a specific sentence and that it will be in a direct process. And can I tell you something? By self-defense. What we say about the CEDEFOP, and so on, are we very well aware of what will happen. The Taxisnet will only be filled, there will be debts on debts and nothing will come out. I think that this is not effective as you say. I would say that if I were to know that I am going and asking for legal aid, without wanting to and without being entitled to it, when I know that if there are no conditions, I will immediately have a specific penalty under a self-determination procedure, that would be dissuasive in relation to what you are proposing. That's my opinion. With regard to legal aid, in addition to what has been said here, it is not only the lawyers who are in the first instance able to appoint themselves, but they must also be able to appoint lawyers who are in the wider courts. I must point out that the coordinators in the extrajudicial mechanism of debt regulation are going too far in the process. It's done by electronic system and it's done perfectly. So why not do what is done on the extrajudicial mechanism, which lawyers are appointed as coordinators, and on the question of legal aid? With regard to Articles 63 and 64, which you say you receive knowledge of why this welfare is being done, it is because there is overcompensation and decongestion. Now to discuss: Does Hope have saturation in Athens? In the twenty-nine cases I was the twenty-eighth and I finished ten and half and with unreliable appeals twenty-five. Not to say what's going on in the province. At ten and quarters the one closes, and soon thereafter the tripartite closes. Why? The tripartite has no case. It has only financial offences, public debt, VAT and some others that you understand what responsibility is - responsibility. So there's no degree of saturation. He doesn't. So, why is this process going on? It's happened in the past. Are we going to establish a culture of impunity or non-criminal persecution or not to impose penalties on violations? We're talking about it. Do you know what it sounds like? "Kado, it's okay, they'll take care of it." We hear such expressions, demeaning both for justice and for lawyers and for everyone. I say this to tell you that I do not believe that this provision also contributes to the overall process of legal culture, because there is at least no decongestion. I'll say the following. He's the judge next to you. This famous process of inspectors, if it were a substantial process - and I say it from the Step of the House - would have other results. Mr. Kranis, I believe that, not as a lawyer, but as a member of an administrative board. I know and you know them very well. Let it be essential for inspectors to be inspected and I hope it becomes essential, because you will see that we have other results. I am sure we will have other results and we are all going to see that. We're not honored by the inspectors' institution as it is. I'm not talking to any inspector personally. But I am referring to the procedure. I conclude, Mr President, if I may, with two more things. I want you to see this, Minister. The legislative improvements to Article 24 of the draft law are added to paragraph 5; paragraph 5 is correctly added, which refers to offences for the EEC. There is, however, another minor omission referred to in No 2803/2000, which, in Article 5, says of the EEC: 'The person responsible shall be punished by imprisonment for up to one year or by penalty if the damage suffered does not exceed 2 000 000 drachmas'. This refers to deception of minor value at the expense of the European Union. We cannot regulate this issue with legislative improvement at the expense of the European Union in Article 24(5) and leave it, which is lasson. This is something that has been in place since 2000. You realize it's on drachmas. I would therefore say that this should be added to paragraph 405(2). Look at it now. It's a sin from God to predict the major, not a glimpse. To conclude, I would like to say the following about the amendment to the Change Movement. Mr President, it concerns a just response to requests before the new Code of Civil Procedure. The rankings are at the expense of these people. It's not his fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Comrade, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u143	I'm done, Madam President. This classification cannot be done today as it was. It's going to be with the new procedures, to the benefit of the banks alone. The workers - and they are most - who have been finished and recognized as debts, there are no courts, they have been irreversibly cleared, they have been judged at every level, and even in the Marios Ice, and they have been finished, we cannot, Minister, leave them in this way. I would like you to see the amendment to the Change Movement. It's fair, it's fair and it's about everybody. It does not say 'no' to anyone in the Chamber. To accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, too. Now Mr Zebbles from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law incorporates, in principle, European directives providing first and foremost additional and increased procedural guarantees regarding the criminal treatment of minors, and the institutional framework of legal aid that guarantees guarantees the guarantees of a fair trial, protecting our economically weak fellow citizens is also introduced. After all, the European Union is founded on the common values of respect for the rule of law and human rights in the hard core of which it is the right to equal access to justice. So the foundation of judicial protection that we are debating today is not an unnecessary luxury, but a fundamental right in the context of Western legal culture. However, because popular voices and cheap nationalist slogans are heard, we must point out that under Article 2 of the European Treaty, no discrimination is provided for in respect of the rights of persons belonging to minorities. In particular for judicial protection, exceptions on racial or ethnic origin would be incomprehensible. What should happen in the cases of foreign minors victims of child prostitution and exploitation circuits or foreign women victims of gang rape or trafficking? Tell them they're not covered because they're foreign? Of course not. On the contrary, we should guarantee everyone without exceptions of quality legal aid services. Furthermore, we must point out that the criminal proceedings are not written, such as civil and administrative, but oral, living and dynamic. The defender should have the relevant experience to respond to the surprise of the other side and to directly see objections and self-evident allegations. This, of course, entails a degree of experience which I believe is guaranteed by the five performances at the criminal hearings. Further to this, transparency in the management of the institution is also a matter of time, so that many cases are not brought together in a few favored, but of spreading cases to more. I think that this measure is right to define the plaque as the sum of EUR 15 000 per lawyer. Subsequently, with regard to the decongestive provisions of Articles 63 and 64, I had the opportunity in the preparation of the draft law in the committee to provide evidence that the effects of these policies, as they have been in place since the 1980s, have been temporary and do not address the paths of justice. However, under the current health conditions requiring the suspension of the functioning of the courts and it is certain that they will also cause saturation of the penal plates, this provision is also justified and necessary. Moreover, she is wise and mentally well. On the other hand, there was the argument that the introduction of the new codes and the de-escalation of the penalty framework should be expected and the reduction of penal plates. I do not think that this view is taken into account by a very important parameter, as does Mr Kamines' view, and this is statistically clear from the fact that after the application of the penal codes we have had an increase of a thousand five hundred in the penitentiary. Here we must accept, therefore, that innovative instruments such as criminal conciliation, criminal negotiation and the criminal order provided for in Article 409 of the Code of Criminal Procedure have indeed been introduced. Of course, they are legislative tools, which help speed up the award of criminal justice. In the question of whether we can optimise decongestion with the application of the new codes, the answer is rather negative. This, of course, can also be judged by the experience of Article 308b on criminal conciliation, which existed in the Criminal Code, so that we can see that there is a structured judicial culture which is suspicious, if not hostile, in the application of new institutions of decongestion and which chooses the easy way to deplete rigour in the adoption of criminal decisions. Thus, in our country, the condoms "remove rain", and as a result, in the relevant Council of Europe's table, Greece has three foundations, unlike the image presented by some and a political leader, that is, that Greece is the man of lawlessness. First, Greece has proportionally the largest number of isovitae. It has a thousand isovitas, when Germany of eighty-four million inhabitants has only a hundred forty and most European Union countries have an average forty. Secondly, it has most temporary prisoners, which account for approximately 30% of the institutions' foods. Thirdly, it has the majority for a Member State - a Member of the European Union - judgments by the European Court of Human Rights on conditions and overpopulation in prisons. Suffice it to say that for nine thousand eight hundred fifteen seats, today we have eleven thousand three hundred thirteen prisoners in the country's penitentiary. In this context, it is clear that criminal justice also needs reforms and deep areas corresponding to those launched by the present Government with the suspension of L.4640/2019, with which it is sure to create a new culture of dispute settlement through mediation in civil and commercial matters. In this direction, progress has been made with this draft law, with measures such as increasing the organic positions of judges, the electronic performance of documents and the establishment of the peacekeeping direction at the National School of Judiciary, which will contribute to the award of quality justice. To conclude, I would like to point out that the leadership of the Ministry of Justice with the legislation under discussion, as well as with the draft law that has already been consulted, continues its reform effort, unequivocally choosing the path of prudence, moderateness and mild tone. It is very important that in this Ministry leadership embraces a political culture with structural elements consensus and composition. This is why it seeks not to be a pretext but to consult parties, judiciary associations, lawyers and institutional bodies in order to achieve the best possible result, far from party opportunism, every time. So there is a great opportunity to strengthen independent justice and leave it unaffected and unaffected by intervention and political competition. This only chance will be a shame to let her go lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u146	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Loverdos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Happy birthday to Costas Tsiara, Nadia Giannakopoulou and to those who celebrate today at the great festival of Isapostoles Konstantinos and Helen. I want to tell you a story that you might have heard, some people have not heard. In 1981 there were presidential elections in France. He was then President Valerie Ziskar D'Estain and the socialist leader, François Miteran. It was going to be the TV debate between the two candidates. Mitterrand therefore received a recommendation from his communication advisers: "Don't say anything about the death penalty." They knew that the abolition of the death penalty was a matter that would occur during the debate. "Don't say it, public opinion is against, you'll lose, avoid the question, changed the conversation." That's what his advisers told Mitterrand. When the debate was made, then, the question that everyone expected was asked: 'What do you have to say about the abolition of the death penalty?' Mitterrand replied as follows: "My advisers advised me not to say anything and to change conversations. On the contrary, I will tell you that I am against the death penalty and when I come to power I will abolish it. If, therefore, you do not want the death penalty to be abolished, do not vote for me." As you know, in the 1981 elections, François Miteran was elected President of the French Republic. Why did I tell that story? I told you to show that in politics and leadership you need to have vision, responsibility and efficiency and see away and also that society is more mature than we think. I say this because the debate on this bill was exhaustive: four meetings in committee, two in plenary. There have been too many and interesting sounds. The most important debate that took place was on this conditional dismissal of the detainees, a subject which has divided public opinion in our country and has given rise to strong controversy, particularly on the occasion of the Act of Friday. Some people say it's unacceptable for some isovites to leave prison earlier than the creation of their sentence. Some people say we have to do this for humanitarian reasons. My opinion is that this regulation - I think that three or four such arrangements have been made over recent years - has been made more in the light of the dismantling, decongestion of prisons. It was not for humanitarian reasons or for social reasons. And that was the mistake of all these arrangements, that they were not made with some philosophy accompanying them. They have been because in the past twenty-thirty years and with the contribution of foreign criminals, we have a terrible problem, as developed by previous speakers, in our prisons. However, the decommissioning of prisons is a serious issue, but it is not the major one. You know, too many - and my friend Antonis Mylonakis earlier and the day before, my good friend Kostas Kyranakis, wish him many years - asked for life. When we impose life, they stay alive. All influenced by this terrifying trial in Topalude which has taken place - we have all been creeped down, we have all been shocked by the mother's picture from the court and we have never been sleeping at night - we have created the impression, to a certain extent, that these monsters who have committed this terrible crime, the terrible murder, must never come out of prison. If we could, we could throw the key away and never get them out of jail again. That's the emotional reaction. It's very right, because I feel that way too. But we are not ordinary citizens to see it that way. The state is not avenged. The state is hesitating. That's the point of the penitentiary system. Of course, you're going to tell me: Does he really feel confident? Most of the time, it's not, because it's such an uproar of prisons that only penitentiation is not. In any case, however, we cannot rule out the right to a person who is condemned even to life as a prisoner. So for me what needs to be changed is the philosophy of the releases, that is, not the decongestion of prisons alone. Somewhere in the middle is the truth. Life must be imposed and life applied in the cases of those criminals who do not change, who do not comply, who do not want to change by anything, but who want to remain locked in this mentality. But for the others - why, you know, over the years, people have been changing in some cases - for those who actually comply and can be reintegrated into our society, then why should this in terms of their dismissal? I don't see why it doesn't exist. There must therefore be life expectancy, respect for these people who have no right and no opportunity to be reinstated in our society, but at the same time the state must be responsible for those who comply, on humanitarian grounds, on the basis of a sense of law, above all from all of us, from the Members and from the judges and from any citizen. It is above all the system, our political and legal culture, the culture of the West, this civilization that brought justice to the centre of man and our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u148	Mr Pappas from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u149	First of all, I would like to say many years to the President of our Parliament, Konstantinos Tsouulas, our Minister, but also to your director, the beloved Constantine Red, with love for all the work he does every day in the Ministry. Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is by no means another positive step that Critical Opposition, SYRIZA, voted in favour of the Minister of Justice's draft law at first instance. Honestly, I was delighted at your positive vote. I only hope that your positive vote will be conscious and not for the eyes of the world and in the name of a false consensus. But I can't say anything more. I would personally like you, speaking on behalf of thousands of citizens, to give and show the same consensus on a number of issues relating to its pandemic and its implications, to take a step forward from the party interest and the micro-policy you exercise, to give your positive opinion and your positive vote on the packages of measures that the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, the Government of New Democracy, has implemented and implemented. It is an integrated plan and measures that have already reached 14.5 billion and are expected to reach 24 billion with the use of European funds. This plan and the measures taken, ladies and gentlemen, are not politically exploited. It is the best possible effort to be made by a government working day-to-night for the protection and progress of Greek citizens, workers, farmers, the new generation, to protect its right to continue to dream about the future, the retired, the entrepreneurs and, of course, the locusts on our islands. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, we must admit that in the words you were good and you are good, but the Greek people and Greek citizens are tired of your words and this has proved to be in the triple elections you have lost. It hasn't been over a year. I think you haven't forgotten. He's tired of your words. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in this unprecedented and unprecedented health crisis, reacted and responded very quickly. In your own irresponsible vagueness, we respond by actions. We have strengthened the ESS both at medical and nursing level. We have increased intensive care units, so-called ICUs, so that our country can be fortified against any health threat now. We shielded the health system. We have immediately spread a protection net for workers and businesses, a set of measures that continue and our aim is to secure jobs, to support incomes and to strengthen business liquidity. With targeted interventions announced yesterday by our Prime Minister, in our heavy industry, tourism, but also in the focus and in the economy, we are seeking to overcome this crisis. We have developed a contract of truth and honesty with Greek citizens. There are no - the Greek citizens know it, they all know it now - magic solutions, solutions that you continue to promise. A difficult period is coming, full of challenges. The consequences of the coronary pandemic at a political, social and economic level, not only in our country, but also internationally, will be multifaceted. And while you know that very well, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you choose splitting and populism. We choose unity, unity, a lot of work and a few words. At the end of the pandemic Greece will come out more mature, stronger and stronger. Ladies and gentlemen, the process of incorporating a Community directive by many is seen as a formal process, but it is often an excellent one, because it is up to the legislator to incorporate quality and how it will be done. Unfortunately, in the past, our country had become the bad example of such seemingly simple instructions, because it was slow to incorporate them into national law, not only at times facing the risk of a fine. These are the directives that are now incorporating with one year's delay. I would remind you that this has had to be done since 2019, before the 2019 elections. For the economy of the debate, I will choose not to recall what government did not do this formal process that we are doing today. It's all right, though. We are sure that we will do so well, and with the care of the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice, we are dealing with a number of critical issues and a common framework of rules is established. Ladies and gentlemen, with the provisions of this draft law, the services of the State to citizens and the rights of minors are substantially upgraded. The protection of the rights of children who are accused or suspected of criminal proceedings shall be guaranteed or subject to a European arrest warrant procedure. Procedures for the award of justice also accelerate by digitising procedures. There is also a substantial and very important increase in the judicial officers provided for in this bill. Equally important are the anti-terrorism provisions laid down in this bill. By incorporating this Directive, the organisation and facilitation of travel with a view to terrorism, theft, extortion and forgery related to terrorist activity shall be standardised as criminal offences. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need a little more time, Madam President. I would also like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that our basic principle of justice is its independence. And that's not what we're negotiating! It's not just a constitutional check. It is a basic principle for the proper functioning of our society and our democracy. We do not interfere with the work of justice, such as you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. We're not interested in controlling the joints of power. To conclude, I would also like to refer to Article 67 of the bill, which, in my opinion, is very important. With the addition made to the Code of Civil Procedure, arrangements are made for the performance by electronic means. This major change is taking a decisive step in the right direction towards digitisation, which also comes to justice, which is to the benefit of the citizens and the functioning of justice. We are saving valuable resources and valuable time, which can be spent elsewhere. Justice is a fundamental stone of democracy. It is one of the pillars of our culture, a pillar of civil protection and society. Justice is the refuge of every citizen and we must do everything we can to protect it and strengthen its functioning. And as Freud said, the first prerequisite of civilization is justice. So I invite you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u150	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr Simopoulos has the floor, immediately after Mr Ypsilantis and we will be closing down with Mr Ljupi. Here, Mr Simopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u151	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, you may be wondering what a mechanic in the bazaar wants. And yet, he wants, because the mechanic's profession is completely intertwined with growth. And to me, the Ministry of Justice is a Ministry of Development. We have not discussed this aspect of the particular ministry, a ministry which, if it does not follow the reformist pace of the government, then the economy in general will have a problem. So we have to follow them. Is it easy? In my opinion, it is not easy because it is a ministry which, in fact, has been structured for too many decades and has a specific hierarchy. And, of course, what he has to do, is respect the law, serve the law. From the point of view of the economy, which I have been serving for forty years, what is of particular interest is that investment should go ahead and that it should quickly go to the economy. On the other hand, justice requires all this to be done at a pace and under the rules of law. Is there an average solution? Yes, there is. There are, in my opinion, too many acts that go through the courts, which could not pass. We once went to court for pretexts and those who wanted to simulate real estate. Until recently, those who wanted to consent to the lifting of the preambles were going to the courts. That can't be right now. So such examples are too much and I believe that the main role today is that of the Ministry: it must incorporate - and well it does and incorporate - European directives. We are a Member State of the European Union, a state which must be the same in economic and political matters, if you wish, with the European Union, of course, always holding our national identity. This is, however, another debate. It's not at the moment. What I'm proposing, I don't know if they'll bring more or less work to the lawyers. It's none of my business. I am sure, however, that growth will bring more work to everyone, whether they are engineers, lawyers, or economists. So we have to move in that direction. We also need to remove too many people who are dealing with the public, public suppliers, who are 100% right, from the public service hierarchy always face this: 'You are not bored! You might be right. I'm not putting my signature on. You will find it in the courts.’ But the courts are after years. Through this blackmail, therefore, many public suppliers are forced to compromise. And whoever can't compromise wins and then the public - watch out! - he comes and pays multiple interest. When I was in the government a few years ago, these examples have had too much. In the end, the government paid tens of millions of dollars, because there was no way of finding the average solution legally, so that the public service provider could deal with the civil servant who says, "You're not bored, you'll find it in the courts." We have more of these examples. There are people who have exercised command and who are currently running in the courts, because there was the solution - probably by some judicial officers - that, "It's okay, I'll send you to court and you'll be acquitted there." For these people, what do we do? And there are a lot of them. And tomorrow it's probably going accelerating. And, of course, it was a rule that some governments in particular did so with much greater heat. Finally, I would like to say this: let us see justice as a development tool. Let us find ways to unleash it from repeated procedures, which do not need and create brakes on growth. There will be no problem with work. Don't look at it as a syndicate. I'm sure anything that brings reform to the country, whatever brings growth, brings jobs for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u152	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: 'Special forms of tourism and provisions for tourism development'. Mr. Ypsilantis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u153	Madam President, thank you very much. Minister, I wish you many years for your celebration and many years for Kastelorizo that is celebrating today because of Constantine and Helen, in Megisti, in Ros and in Strongyli. Indeed, several directives have been incorporated into our Rules of Procedure for a long time, and, indeed, the SYRIZA - ANEL governments, who have had the opportunity to incorporate them into our Law, have not done so, so that our country is in danger of suffering from their late adoption and of being prosecuted by the Union. The first directive, which is incorporated into our legislation, Directive 800/2016, on procedural guarantees for children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings, is a requirement for a uniform Union-class regulation of these matters, which contributes to the maximum strengthening of confidence in justice systems in all the Member States of the Union. The provisions provided for are in relation to absolute harmony with the specific provisions of our Constitution in Article 21. It specialises, among other things, the protection of childhood and youth, including these elements in the state's protective care. The safeguarding of younger members of society becomes more up-to-date and necessary when such persons acquire the properties of the suspect or accused person in criminal proceedings as there is a significant risk that their rights will be called into question with the result that their mental health and the smooth development of their personality will be adversely affected. It is therefore clear that there is a need for a regulatory framework guaranteeing the rights of all young suspects and accused persons throughout the criminal proceedings until an irrevocable decision is adopted. I would like to highlight Article 7, which, for the first time, introduces the very important right of individual assessment, which consists in gathering information specifically on the personality and socio-economic environment of the new. In this way, the possibility of a more complete assessment of their mental, physical and mental situation is introduced, while it is important to provide for the establishment of a scientific team for the evaluation of these minors, which also helps the relevant prosecutors. Article 11 seeks to substantially upgrade the conditions of child penitentiary by providing for separate detention areas as well as for participation in educational or professional programmes. Healthy conditions of incarceration are thus being formulated and more specific targets of the penitentiary are being implemented as concrete and substantial measures are being taken for the smooth reintegration of these people into society. I also believe that Article 12 establishes a specific criminal offence cycle with the mandatory performance of a special scientist member of the scientific evaluation team. This provision significantly strengthens the guarantees that the state must offer to young people who have been suspected. The second part incorporates Directive 1371/2017 concerning the fight against fraud through the Criminal Law against the financial interests of the Union. So when this provision and the proper functioning of protecting the European Union's financial interests exist, some smart people will not get into the world, who think that through the European Union they can win and win illegally. They will know that strict provisions come to protect the very Community, European, Union legal order, which is also an interest in our own country. The third part incorporates the anti-terrorism directive, and we all know that it is very necessary in particular with its outbreak in Europe and the fourth part of its legal aid for suspects and accused in criminal proceedings for wanted in a European arrest warrant. Minister, you're doing well. I think justice has found her doctor. I would like to say this: along with the provisions that you are introducing today and which facilitate the more rapid administration of justice, but also the functioning of justice, I would like to ask you to do something from this Step. I repeat that you are doing, as I have said, very well in terms of shaping this framework of justice and the administration of justice. What I'm going to say is not about you personally. You are not the fault of a situation experienced by my special homeland by the Dodecanese regarding the operation of the land registers of Rhodes, Kos and Leros, as well as the state of the building infrastructure in the courts of Rhodes and Kos. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a minute, Madam President. I think that immediately, given that all these buildings, which I have spoken about, are buildings of the Italian period, the Italian Republic, which need intervention, which may require services, and so on, there is a requirement for technicians, as well as for our land registers, both Rhodes and Kosne, by technicians. In other words, if we do not make sure that we find the gold incision with the Ministry of the Environment, so as to cover the position of the technicians, we are, as you have said before, losing the game of development. We will really lose the game and the security of trade, but also the development together. With these thoughts, Minister, I ask you soon to plan a visit to Rhodes and Kos, so that these issues can be looked at closely and given the solutions. I am sure that these long-standing problems, as they have been created, will be put on the right basis and will give the solutions we want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u154	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. The list of speakers will be closed by Mr Ljupi from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Happy birthday to you, Minister, and to everyone who celebrates today. I would like to express my satisfaction that we are here again, in the plenary session, more than two months after the decisive move of the Government and Prime Minister to take drastic action against COVID -19. The early mobilisation of the state mechanism, based on scientific knowledge, as expressed by experts, proved wise and salvages. We have avoided the loss of many human lives and we are now going through a period of careful and well-designed return to normal patterns of everyday life. Today's bill is one of the important bills that the Prime Minister said will be submitted and will come for a vote in the summer. Part I of the bill includes the incorporation of Directive 800/2016, regulating the important issue of the rights of minors indictees or suspects to commit criminal offences. All rights of the minor shall be recorded, such as the right of access to the lawyer, the right to legal aid, the right to information, the provision of special detention facilities and the prior decision of such cases. I am thinking above all of the right to individual assessment, which is being implemented for the first time. It is very important to have an overall picture of the personality of the juvenile offender. In this context, the Minors' and Social Aid Service will have an active role and will draw up the relevant report. A child in the particularly difficult position of a suspect or accused person should also be treated as a person in need of immediate assistance. Very often the minor perpetrator is both a mortal and a victim, and that is something we should not overlook. Part II of the bill incorporates Directive 1371/2017 on combating fraud against the European Union's financial interests with a strict legal framework. The change lies in the assumption of the criminal treatment of a fraud against the European Union's property with a fraud against the property of the Greek State. The establishment of uniform rules for dealing with such illegal acts in all Member States will effectively help to deal with phenomena, such as illegal reception or retention of European grants or cross-border VAT fraud, which are criminal offences. Part of the bill includes, among other things, improvements in existing provisions. In particular, the excessively short deadline of five days available to the victims of violent crimes is corrected to denounce their offences against them and to be entitled to compensation by the Hellenic Antilles Authority. The deadline shall now be three months and fully in line with the seriousness of these offences. The draft law makes key contributions, aimed at improving and speeding up procedures in the field of justice. It is particularly useful in this respect to increase the organic positions of judges in order to deal more quickly with judicial cases. The violent closure of the courts due to the pandemic created the need for immediate decongestion of the judicial material. That is why it is necessary to waive the deportation and cessation of the criminal prosecution concerning minor and less deceptive offences. Innovative is the provision allowing the performance of a document by electronic means. This is the first time that this has been attempted in our country, and this is a real breakthrough in the area of justice. The new arrangement has all the necessary guarantees to make this appropriate way of service, since it does not exclude the judicial caretakers, on the contrary, electronic performance is done by them. The Government has committed itself to a constant effort to modernise and simplify procedures by using technology, and this provision will make the performance even to the public a very rapid and simple procedural act. Indicative of the efforts of the Government and the Ministry of Justice to strengthen and upgrade justice is the establishment of a peacekeeping direction within the National School of Judges. It was a consistent request of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, it is a substantial upgrade of this branch, as peacekeepers will be better trained and better prepared to take up their duties. In conclusion, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice first incorporates European Union directives which should have been incorporated into the Greek legal system long ago. But it also takes a step further: it deals with several open issues of Greek justice, giving tangible solutions. Most important of all, however, is that throughout the course of the debate, the head of the Ministry of Justice listened carefully to comments from all actors, seeking to reach consensus and offer the bill to the real needs of justice. And this is the ultimate proof that the bill will not remain empty, but will bring about the changes it seeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I want to thank you for the many - really many! - wishing for my roll-call holiday to all the Members who were in the Step and who have expressed them, and of course I too wish the holidaymakers today. It is a day when many in Greece bear that name, so you realise that the wishes are essentially on the agenda. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] I will begin, ladies and gentlemen, for reasons of a purely economic process by the amendments, so that the Bureau can incorporate them into the body of the bill in order to somehow win the time. It is obvious, obviously, that the ministerial amendments are tabled and accepted. For the amendment tabled by a group of members of the Staff Regulations, we have discussed it at the previous meeting. It is an amendment whose substance is probably incorporated into the act of legislation which will be adopted at the beginning of next week and which concerns the opening up of the political courts. We do not need to say anything more, I think it is absolutely clear. For the amendments with number 298 and 302 tabled by Mrs Bakadima and fellow Members - that is to say, the creation of a 26th Educational Series for the National School of Judges - I think we have said all of this - the position that has been expressed by me - I will repeat some arguments - I think that is more or less well known, so it cannot be accepted. As far as Mr Kegeroglu's amendment is concerned, I would like to inform him that it will be given to the Legislative Committee which is currently fully operational in this period and on the Code of Justice. It is an issue that is essentially the responsibility of the committee. The amendment under number 303 to eliminate the crime referred to in Article 168 is not acceptable. The amendment under number 306 on the fairness of law and already before the new Code of Civil Procedure of recognised requirements - Mrs Giannakopoulou, Mr Kamine, Mr Kastanides, Mrs Likoulis and Mr Mulkiotis - is in the mind of the already active committee of the Code of Civil Procedure, since you realise that this whole process is under way. So it can't be accepted right now. We also have the amendments tabled by Mr Constantopoulos, Mrs Giannakopoulos and Mr Lebanese. It is about the same amendment that you tabled on a notary issue. Because there is also a change in the Code of Symbols, and there is a permanent consultation with the representatives of the plenary of the notary clubs, and this will be considered in this debate. It is Amendment No 308 and Amendment No 309. As regards Mr Plovry's amendment, I have listened with interest to his arguments. I don't know if there's anyone else we haven't answered from all that we've got. We'll see it right after the march, but she's accepted. And let me respond to some answers to colleagues' positions, which once again moved one side in a direction which, to a very large extent, is also unfair to the substance, but also to the reality to which this bill refers. I would therefore say, ladies and gentlemen, that the resumption of the bad legal status in the Chamber is inappropriate for this bill. Tell me, really, how long have you really been working out and discussing a bill which is discussed thoroughly in the committee responsible at four meetings and which comes to be discussed in plenary in the Greek Parliament in a debate on the subject at first and in a debate on the articles and, indeed, when it is the first bill after the prolonged, difficult and curious period that we have spent because of the horn pandemic? I think that you are also unfair to yourself, when you come and are right as a political matter, to non-binding in the debate of this bill, as with your position, if you like, about the fact that some articles of the bill had not been included in the public consultation. Do you really have any idea how much comments were written in the public consultation on these articles that most of you have spoken about, such as the legal aid of minors, and in general the legal aid that was a key issue in our debate in plenary, as of course in all the meetings earlier? Slightly! If, therefore, there were any controversial issues which have dealt with us to a very large extent in a bill that was normally put into public consultation and for which there were no comments and we are coming back to say that we did not do so well and that we had a bad legislature - because you see how much things exist as issues and these are the issues for which, I repeat, there was hardly any comment - you realize that there is something oxymobile and obviously a great inconsistencies. So let's go get things in a row. I do not have the opportunity to speak about specific articles in the bill, simply because most of you did not refer to specific articles in the bill. So I come to the legal aid that was a huge issue. From the outset I have heard the objections made by almost all the speakers of the opposition. Did you not tell me that there is one issue with the ten performances that go as a prerequisite for defending all those people involved in criminal matters who have the right to legal aid? We've had five of them. Did you not ask me how we need to look at the income criteria, so that in some way, because there was pressure from both the legal world and from lawyers, there is a redefinition? The 12,000 for family income, we made it 10,000. Didn't you tell me that there's an issue with the high wall that every lawyer can get from the legal help that was 20,000? We made the 20,000 of them 15,000. I asked you to give me written suggestions and each of you came to Stepma and said a number of things that each of the Members in plenary would be able to move in their own way, things not specifically, while he spoke more of complaints than of proposals. We are also coming today to include all of what you say in the bill, proving that to a very large extent the debate and, of course, the inclusion of Members' proposals for counter-population is a common practice in the legalisation of the Ministry of Justice. I say all this, ladies and gentlemen, before I may go into a harder criticism, because I will insist until the end that we have to exercise a parliamentary exercise, at least as far as the legislation of the Ministry of Justice is concerned. We must sometime we can all see what the reality is. The truth and reality are one. There are no two truths. The truth is one and it's unique. So, on the basis of this truth and on the basis of this reality, we should all build together. Really, you're telling me we shouldn't have put on the other articles in the bill. So, you didn't want us to pay the judge's waged maturities? Tell me, let me get this straight. You didn't want to do it? He wasn't in the consultation. You didn't want to give the sixty-five new organic positions? He wasn't in the consultation. You didn't want them? I want you to answer me so I can know. You didn't want us to take a pacifist direction at the National Court School? He wasn't in the consultation. You didn't want to do it? Didn't you want us to identify a legal framework for the operation of the National Court School? He wasn't in the consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u158	For the rest...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u159	I get it, I get it. You may have a different view of the omission of offences and the limitation of penalties. But really, this is something that, at least those who were in the government, took care to legislate in exactly the same way in the recent, and not just, past. So, at some point, we need to get over ourselves. I repeat, I ask all of us to do together in all the legislation of the Ministry of Justice a parliamentary exercise, at least trying to send a serious message to the Greek society. Yes, I personally believe that politics, as it does and as it works, is a teacher in society. That's my opinion. And I'm telling you this without hiding behind my finger. And I think, of course, by raising the glove from you, Mr Kamine, that some time programming must be based on a very serious debate and, if you like, an open and honest debate. You want me to tell you what I think about justice? I believe that it has been carrying pathogens for decades, as I believe, unfortunately, despite any serious and sincere efforts that have been made in the past, there has been no result in the direction that we wanted. For in justice, for which we do not need to say self-evidently, such as the pillar of democracy and the fact that it is based on this Greek society and Greek citizens, the great affinity that concerns the delay in its awarding time is not solved by these small, regular interventions, which are basically carried out over time. Reforms need to be changed, we need to look at our faces in the mirror and take on both personal and party responsibility. As long as we try to stumble between interests, guilders in principle - I do not want to say anything negative, do not misunderstand it - and among all the things that we need to do from our side by closing the eye, whether in some social professional groups or in some parts of society, the result will not be what we want. And don't tell me you're doubting that. In all this, therefore, the attempt of the acrobatic that I described earlier must all be borne in mind, I repeat, the great responsibility that lies with us. I do not hide from you that if there was no pandemic - because you have put some fundamental questions - I would be able about the beginning of the summer to have this debate, this general debate, because there is indeed a strategy, there is a framework for reforms that I personally, but also the State Secretary and all of us in the Ministry of Justice, we want to defend it in a certain way in order to change the way in which justice operates. However, that also means the main factor, which is changing attitudes on certain issues, which we know very well. There's nothing going on with a magic wand. There is nothing to be done, because only in the face of common sense and in the thoughts of all of us can we see it in one particular direction. And I think that colleagues who have experience, especially within the Greek Parliament, of a more general practice and of a general philosophy that does not allow us to take the necessary steps at the critical moment, I think they can understand and justify this position. Yes, we want to make reforms, we want to speed up justice. How? We have already managed, even with a specific law that is mediation - which you too defend, Mr Kamine - to create a new culture in general, to resolve differences between citizens, through a process based on all modern European societies and which in Greece has not yet taken the necessary steps. Of course we want to bring arbitration, criminal mediation. We want to make the reforms relating to the way the courts operate, to digitisation and move forward - step by step. In the next bill, which is already in public consultation, you will have the opportunity to see that there is a grid of arrangements on the one hand concerning the operation of the Court of Auditors and on the other hand - because we are talking about the Court of Auditors' procedural procedure - in the possibility of setting up - if, of course, the relevant administrations of the courts - specific departments for the major courts and tribunals of the country in Athens, Thessaloniki and Piraeus, which will be able to avenge cases mainly on the development issues of the country. And they will be done in such a way that they will show that Greece is finally beginning to acquire a serious and reliable way, if you like, of approaching issues that in the past have blackened the image of our country and created a very big doubt in much of the world. However, all of this wants to be a serious programming process and they want steps that are described earlier and to be taken in the specific times that we describe. However, we will have the opportunity to discuss them together and, of course, I will present to you all these issues, in particular the way in which we are currently planning major reforms, and we are planning changes in the area of justice. On the issue of the absorption of the successors from the Court of Justice, I think it is an issue that we have exhausted. And I really do not understand why a number of colleagues are insisting on and coming back from a logic which I, to a very large extent, cannot justify or understand, on the other hand. We have said that these successors have completed a procedure, but a certain number has been provided for. We have said that it is a competition, which is repeated every year. We have said that if we were to get additional people out of this process, there might be a big question of the legality of the competition that has already been conducted. And we have said that the Council of State has expressed itself on this. There is a corresponding decision by the Council of State which, of course, concerns the recruitment of port officers. Why should we definitely see such a procedure through a logic which, to a large extent, creates a huge questionable legality and since there is a process that is repeated every year? Mrs Bakatima said earlier - she is not here - that I said, in my speech last Monday, that in other cases there is no competition every year. Yeah, there's no competition every year. That's why we're heading for peacekeepers to be a competition every year from now on. That is why all this is being done, because we need to have a class in a logical way, which concerns all the procedures, and which concerns the way in which the seniors and seniors are recruited, and not just the civil servants. That's the logic, it's no different, there's no other reason. We must all understand it and we must all in principle support it. I do not think that any debate fits, which goes beyond common sense, even on this matter. Finally, I would like to make a comment on the repetitive, supposed intervention - not by the Ministry of Justice - concerning the elections of the Union of Judges and prosecutors. In fact, I was very impressed by the fact that SYRIZA and the former Prime Minister, who mentioned this issue yesterday in his speech yesterday. Are you asking, ladies and gentlemen, for intervention? Are we asking to intervene on an issue that we have no competence at all? When it is not a trade union, when it is not a legal person governed by public law, where there is no provision and ultimately the Association of Judges and Prosecutors is a bourgeois club - such as dozens and hundreds of unions throughout Greece - you are asking the Ministry of Justice to intervene either by suspending the election time or I do not know what else we may ask the Ministry of Justice for? We could not do that and we did not do it with knowledge that we must stand up to legitimacy. The fact that at the moment within the Union there are administrative issues, it is not about us, it is not about the Ministry of Justice. And, of course, it is a case which may exist in dozens of other urban associations in Greece. Why does one have to work differently towards it? Is it foreseen by any legislation? Is it foreseen by something that we are currently not doing and are inhabited? And there comes a large number of colleagues in the House's Step and speaks of this matter? Ladies and gentlemen, I will close as I started: the truth is always one and reality is always one. She's one and only. I would like to ask you this reality to see it, to understand and to support all of us in a unique way, which has at least mentioned - I repeat - in common sense, leaving out every micro-political approach from this process and considering that, in order to take the next steps as a Greek society, we should see how we can send out a specific teaching message to all Greek citizens. And I think that this will be the really great opportunity, if we want the next day to be a better day for Greek society, to be a better day for our homeland and to create the real hope for us as well, but of course for the next generations. I would ask you to vote in favour, as far as possible and certainly depending on how you understand it, and the individual articles of the draft legislation. We believe that, when there is firstly the possibility of incorporating specific European directives, a memorandum of cooperation, to adapt Greek legislation on EUROJUST, but of course to settle matters which have been sprinkling for many years, it is obviously not a logic of a 'gull' bill or even a 'currant', as some colleagues have said. It recommends the real need for all these issues that are outstanding to make priority, for you to take the legislative step that you must take, for you to give back the authority and the entity in your country, a European country, and for you to be able to show to the European partners as well, but also to the inside of the country that you are serious and responsible about these issues which arise. I would like to thank the rapporteurs, the spokesmen of the bill, Mr Koutsoubas, Mr Kalamataanos, Mrs Giannakopoulou, Mrs Konnaka, Mrs Bakada, Mr Heta. I think that, despite the differences that we may have had and expressed by the Step of the Greek Parliament, the debate at least kept the measure, the style and the morale necessary for discussions by the Ministry of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u161	Just a minute, Mr. Comrade. I would like to ask which of the rapporteurs want to make use of their dentistry. As far as I can see, it's Mr. Kalamatianos, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, Mr. Hetas. Mr. Hetas has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, aren't we going in a row?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u163	Let's go backwards. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Kalematian, I'll be very brief. After all, we had come to an agreement not to talk, but obviously they caused what the Minister said, so we will have to respond. I fully understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u165	That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u166	Minister, we thank you. It was a constructive debate, a fruitful dialogue that lasted too long. I found no reason to say that the procedures were not followed. I think that we have exhausted this issue, that is, we have extended it - let me say that - we have done too much, even with the two plenary sessions. Whatever it was to say, we said it. I would like you to understand - and I think the Greek people have understood - why the Greek Solution is voting against this bill. I hope that it has been understood and made clear in this House, both to you and to your staff. I think we've been clear from day one. The reasons are specific that we do not vote on this bill. In some articles we will put it in a similar position, and we will do so immediately after the voting process opens. I also want you to understand from what our President and I, as rapporteur, have said and the other members, officials, MPs who have taken the floor these days, that we really care - and I will stay on what you have said - about the subject of the pathogens of Greek justice. Our minds and interest, Mr Minister, are there stranded and we want there to work together and be able to also through the proposals that the Greek Solution has to resolve these pathogens for decades that really afflict Greek justice and we are really at a very low level. There's our mind. I think we were clear on everything. From the beginning, we said no. You know what? It is not wrong to disagree, as long as the disagreement is honest. We are clear why we disagree and that is what I am staying for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u167	We get it, Mr. Heta. Be well. Mrs Giannakopoulou has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u168	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I have listened very carefully and the truth is that you have done so in a very convincing way. No one can disagree with the need for areas, for reforms in the multipathic area of justice, for us to look away, leaving behind the paths of the past. But I am afraid, Mr Minister, that in the way you specifically deal with the amendments - and I will analyse right now - you show exactly the opposite. What do I mean? You rejected the two amendments to the Change Movement which refer to the fair demands of workers who are unsatisfactory, who were born, diagnosed, made themselves known in forced execution procedures to be promoted to the banks, a very just request based on the announcement that should have been made, as it was on the old Code of Civil Procedure. You said 'no' to this, you said 'no' to the other amendment to the Change Movement on a fair arrangement for notaries and you are bringing us this amendment, Minister. May I say what amendment you are probably accepting? You rejected all of the amendments and accepted your Member's amendment, which is what he says. Because the Greek Parliament and the Greek Parliament must listen to what the specific, totally photographic amendment says. ‘Any person who falsifies or distorts the outcome of elections to show collective bodies or representatives of any trade union organisation shall be punished by imprisonment for up to one year’. Is it photographic, Minister? I would remind you, in the bill today we are voting on, that there is even worse than that: the penalties that are being punished for up to one year are being recorded. The man for whom, in other words, there is and has been written this amendment for oil! Is that what the Ministry does and you're calling to bring to the Greek Parliament? Is that what you accept, Minister, this photographic provision? You are asking for clear answers, because this is scandalous, and this is in complete contrast with everything you have told us here today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. Mr. Kalamatiano has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in my speech today, I referred to the glimpse of the procedures with the opening of the ballot and the removal of the null ballot, and then the closure, and all these vulnerabilities that we experienced yesterday, which unfortunately degrade our parliamentaryism, degrade our institutions, degrade our democracy. Unfortunately, following on from what Mrs Giannakopoulos said, we find that such an example, namely the falsification or distortion of the results of elections to show collective bodies, etc. He is punished by imprisonment for up to one year, and if he is a member of a committee of inquiry with up to two years' imprisonment. Do we want to bring these examples? Minister, you must answer. Is this specific or specific? With what we lived here yesterday, do we give the example of trade unions not to punish people, who are doing so? What's going on? It has to be explained. It's very serious. And I continue with the matter of ending the term of office and not holding elections to the Union of Judges and Prosecutors. They point out that you refused to extend the association of the board of directors, while you accepted the extension of other boards. The union, Minister, is not a simple urban union. It is an institution mentioned in the Constitution, has an institutional role that is crucial and intervenes in important matters of justice. It's not a simple urban union. In the middle of a coronary pandemic, no elections were allowed. That was first the request of the Management Board. It was not allowed, although the EGE had allowed the elections to take place. And what are you talking about? You're referring them to the law. What are the legalities? Request to the Court of First Instance, appointment of temporary administration, which will simply have the duty to prepare the elections. Do you want to impose implicity on the union because it has taken a stand on key issues, downgrading of labour rights, etc.Huh? Because that's what you're gonna do. In the application to the Court of First Instance, temporary administration is appointed to deal only with the elections, without the association, the judges and the prosecutors being represented, as is the case with the other supreme courts. Minister, it is not a justification and excuse for you for not continuing the term of office, at least until the elections are held or at least for elections to be held. It has to be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, may I have the floor? I have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u172	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, parliamentary practice provides for specific procedures. For the amendments you have tabled, Mrs Giannakopoulos, I have told you that both will be included in the legislative committees which are currently under way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u174	And whoever falsifies him makes oil?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u175	The amendment tabled by Mr Ploris was reasonable that there are many trade union elections coming at the end of next month. Do you know that? Based on the fact that there were not many elections, they have been moved for the end of next month, and that was reason alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u176	But you did it for other unions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u177	I have not interrupted and tried to listen to what you said with respect, but let us not go back to this debate in this way. From there on, each of us can easily judge what is happening and what is not happening. If you're judging this is photographic, it's your business. We believe, however, that we must actually liberalise the process of the trade union elections with a connection and a parallelity with the situation in the national elections. I think there is a explanatory statement which, to a very large extent, answers this question in relation to what you have said, Mr Kalamatiane. Do you think that the Ministry of Justice had to intervene as not competent in the proceedings of the elections of the Union of Judges?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u178	That doesn't matter. It has an institutional role.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u179	I don't want to remember how much you loved the association of judges in the recent past when you were government. Now you remembered and you love her, but that's another case. We don't have to say that these displacements are according to the beam, whenever it's of interest to go on one side and whenever it's not our interest to go on the other. These are known tactics which exactly contradict what I told you earlier. So we need to make it clear at some point that we are going to get to the point where responsibility and legitimacy exist. One cannot support the institutional function, especially the Ministry of Justice, if it is trying in a way to intervene, as was unfortunately described in the recent past, to create other data, either in the area of judges or in the area of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors. Mr. Heta, I trust in Greek justice. I want to be honest, in addition to the problems and pathogens, which I myself have just mentioned, I believe that the Greek judges and all those who are involved in the field of Greek justice and the judicial officers and the legal world are doing everything they can. The Greek state's debt is with Parliament, whose government has the potential to legislate, to create these rules that will help us take the next step, with reforms, with changes, with improvements, but with all that we need to build in a real relationship of confidence, at least among us. Because only then will we be able to transmit the correct teaching message. I think that everyone needs a firm pedagogical message, and I am referring not only to the area of justice, but also to the whole of the Greek society, and to believe again in the political system, but much more to show the way we all have to follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much. The debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of the Directives (EU) 2016/800, 2017/1371, 2017/541, 2016/19, 2014/57/EU, ratification of the Memorandum of Administrative Cooperation between the Ministry of Justice of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Justice and Public Order of the Republic of Cyprus, amendments to Law No.3663/2008 (A'99) for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2018/1727 and other provisions is hereby terminated.’ We are entering the vote on the articles, amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would point out that the vote includes ninety-three articles, three amendments, the hotel article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest you have to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the whole. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question, please contact the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u181	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u182	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u183	Following the completion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of the Directives (EU) 2016/800, 2017/1371, 2017/541, 2016/1919, 2014/57/EU, ratification of the Memorandum of Administrative Cooperation between the Ministry of Justice of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Justice and Public Order of the Republic of Cyprus, amendments to Law No.3663/2008 (A '99) to the application of Regulation (EU) 2018/1727 and other provisions’ were accepted on the articles, amendments and to the whole. Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Justice: Incorporation in Greek Laws of Directives (EU) 2016/800, 2017/1371, 2017/541, 2016/1919, 2014/57/EU, ratification of the Memorandum of Administrative Cooperation between the Ministry of Justice of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Justice and Public Order of the Republic of Cyprus, amendments to Law No.3663/2008 (A/99) for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2018/1727 and other provisions’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle, articles and total, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u185	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-21-S1-commons.u186	With the agreement of the House at 19.54 the meeting for tomorrow, Friday, 9.00 p.m. on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, discussion of topical questions; b) legislative work, only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: "Special forms of tourism and provisions for tourism development" in accordance with the agenda distributed.
