ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the agenda for legislative work, let me first make the following announcements: First of all, I would like to remind you that the Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination on the investigation of offences that may have been committed by the former Minister of Justice Mr. Dimitrios Papagelopoulos in the performance of his duties, for which the plenary has set a deadline for the submission of the findings by 30 June 2020, calls for a decision taken at its meeting on 25 June 2020 and was sent to the Special Secretariat of the Parliament on 26 June 2020, an extension of its operation by 15 July 2020. Does the House agree to an extension of the conclusion until 15 July?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u2	The House unanimously agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u3	I shall immediately proceed to the communication of the following: First, the Ministers for Health, Finance, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs and Transport submitted on 26-6-2020 a draft law: (a) its 23.6.20 modification from 6.9.2018 Donation Convention, (b) the 23.6.20 List of Donation Contracts for Projects IX and X and (c) of 23.6.20 Amendment to the Individual Donation Contract for Project VII - Trauma of 6.9.2018 Donation Convention between the Foundation "COMMUNICATIONS STARCHOS S. NIORHOS" and the Greek Government for the strengthening and upgrading of health infrastructure, ratified by Law 4564/2018 (A 89) and supplementing Law 4693/2020 (A 116). Secondly, the Ministers of Civil Protection, Finance, Foreign Affairs and Justice tabled a draft law on 26-6-2020: "Definition of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Israel on cooperation in the fight against crime and on matters of public security". Third, the Ministers of State, Finance, Development and Investment, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport and Tourism, as well as the Deputy Minister to the Prime Minister, tabled a draft law on 26-6-2020: ‘Accelerating and simplifying the strengthening of audiovisual works, strengthening digital governance and other provisions’.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Justice: "The Single Code of Procedure for the Court of Auditors, an integrated legislative framework for pre-contractual audit, amendments to the Code of Laws on the Court of Auditors and provisions for the effective administration of justice". The bill was discussed and passed at the meeting on Thursday, 25 June 2020 at the outset. Today's sitting will discuss the articles and amendments of the bill as one section and the bill on the articles, amendments and as a whole will be passed. The speaking time of the rapporteurs, the special speakers, the parliamentary representatives and the speakers is eight minutes in accordance with Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Konstantinos Kyranakis, has the floor for eight minutes. Mr. Cynace, please, come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President, but I think I have the right to speak from the Rules of Procedure as well. And I'm not gonna run out of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Kyranakis, the Rules of Procedure are seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, I will speak much less than seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u8	Can I get you five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u9	Less.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u10	Then I'll take four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. I think that in addition to the changes and amendments that have been made by the Ministry of Justice, I would first like us to hear the Ministers' suggestions when they come to present their own amendments, to put them on the table. As far as legislative improvements are concerned, I would like to thank the Minister, who accepted the majority's proposal for the teleconferencing conferences. I think it is a measure which will make it easier for the Court of Auditors to meet in a shorter time, as appropriate and appropriate. And in any case, this practice should not be the rule, but it should be the exception only where it is possible to facilitate its work. From there on, there is no change to the limit of 5 million for pre-contractual control in co-financed countries. On the basis of the evidence, this has not, at least so far, been necessary. And, therefore, I would like to comment on this position. We'll wait for the ministers to return. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u13	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u14	The amendment by the Ministry of Justice will be presented in principle. I imagine that the other amendments will be presented by the ministers responsible for presenting them. That is why, if there is no objection, I can talk to you about the articles in the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u15	What time do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u16	Five minutes. It is enough, of course, but I think we will be able to cover everything in these five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u17	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u18	With the first article we are attempting to solve a long-standing problem, with regard to the delay in issuing certificates of property from mortgages and property offices, while at the same time allowing lawyers to issue attestations for the benefit of citizens. It is an article in the amendment which, as you can see, is also a decision of the plenary session of the lawyers. Regarding the second article, I would like to tell you in advance that there has been a restriction on the possibility of electing the chairman of the board of directors of each legal club. There are some small in number and in members of lawyers and there is a lack of interest by many, so there is a risk that there will be no candidacies in the coming elections. For this reason, at least for clubs who, until 30 September, have up to four hundred members, we are actually giving the Presidents a third term. And that, of course, was actually a proposal for the plenary session of the lawyers. The third article introduces a provision in the annexes, which are above, for the real estate attestations which lawyers will now be able to issue and, in fact, the price is determined. It is up to 60 euros per property. The fourth article provides for the remuneration of judges for the performance of the electronic performance. It actually comes to finalise the previous legislation we have foreseen on electronic performance. The fee for electronic service will be EUR 25. The fifth article allows the Board of Directors of the FIFG, by its decision, approved by the Minister of Justice, to grant, in exchange for the use, without in exchange, of public law, legal persons and local authorities, and public sector bodies, immovable for the execution of works or services for the purpose of building on or maintaining them. You realise that this is a matter which we must also formally resolve. I do not think there is a general contradiction in this regard. In the sixth article, natural persons representing companies, organisations and in general any form of legal persons governed by public or private law of a non-profit nature with regular financing by the Greek State, who, on the basis of their statutes, pursue artistic, cultural or environmental purposes, will not be subject to criminal liability for the non-payment of remuneration to employees. In any case, however, - here is the crucial point - they will have criminal responsibility, if they have been convicted of another act, infidelity, embezzlement, etc., which has not allowed payment in the short term. This provision, ladies and gentlemen, is necessary in order to protect legal persons and structures which are non-profit-making and which are closely defined and which are intended solely for them. In other words, they do not distribute any gains that may arise from their activities to members or founders or management, but they use them to continue and achieve purposes to promote the arts, culture, cultural heritage or environmental protection, as mentioned earlier. Article 7 clarifies a procedure already laid down in the Law for the resettlement of the staff of the Legal Sector to the positions of lawyers, who were paid lawyers of the former "National Land and Mapping S.A." and remained with the institution "Greek Stock Exchange". In particular, in order to implement this arrangement, it should not apply to the emblem of the absence of any employment or employee relationship, even when they are transferred to another post, but to the same department, so that what needs to be done can be redefined as lawyers. This, of course, is a problem which has created a weakness in the functioning of the register for a long time. With Article 8, we recommend an organic position for medical services, and I tell you in advance that he is in some way a precursor to a legislative initiative that we will shortly bring about the reorganisation of the medical service. It's a big issue with huge social resonance. We'll see you in a very short time. So what do we want to do? We know that regional medical services are subordinated by medical and auxiliary personnel. Many of them, in fact, lack neither toxicological nor pathological laboratories, so that the experts ordered by the judicial authorities in external medical establishments have a very high cost for the public. EUR 1.5 million is spent every year on the cost we give for experts of this type mentioned earlier. With the reorder, we'll limit this cost, which will be a payroll at half the time. We say this because I think it is a very important regulation, a very important amendment, which I repeat comes as a preamble to a more general legislative initiative that we will shortly be taking. Finally, in accordance with Article 9, a Legislative Committee is set up to draw up a Code of Organismal Provisions for the Court of Auditors. It is essentially necessary from the draft legislation already in place to set up this committee of legislation, which will deal with all the issues, which, as you know, will arise as in the Code of Law on the Court of Auditors, which will have been abolished or amended, explicitly or implicitly, so that the use of others will become difficult and at the expense of the public. As far as the amendment from the Ministry of Justice is concerned. I repeat that during the meeting colleagues from the other ministries who have tabled amendments will come to support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. Let's go now with the special speaker from SYRIZA Mr. Theophilos Blondopoulos for eight minutes. If you speak less, Mr Colleague, you can also speak from your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, I will probably come to the forefront of not breaking the Rules of Procedure. First of all, I shall speak on a point of order to the Bureau. The Minister has developed the amendment and only logically of his powers. Every time the next ministers will now come to develop their amendments, will a new round of positions begin? So we shall be placed in the amendments without listening to the suggestion?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u21	Of course not. I think the practice says you can answer your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u22	In our second grades. Very good. First of all, I should like to refer to the major issue in plenary, which is the draft law on codification of the Court of Auditors' provisions and the procedural rules and the consolidation of the diffuse legislation. We have said this on many occasions, I think we have exhausted the dialogue on this. Convergence points have been found, which is a very good example of the legislative work of Parliament and of the political message we are trying to pass. When there are intentions of converging, and we do not have the strong controversy over matters outside the Chamber, we can find convergence points and so several of the points in the bill I think will be achieved by a large majority. We still object and object to the creation of the three categories in the country's two major prototypes and appeals in the country, Thessaloniki and Athens, for the reasons that we have detailedly analysed throughout the previous period, as well as in the provision for the stay in the service of the highest military judges, because we consider that almost a year, in essence, after the amendment of the Constitution, it would be possible to adopt the law and not extend it to extensions, which in many cases also cover photographic provisions. These are the main items on the agenda that this House has been dealing with and a number of meetings. As far as the Minister's amendment is concerned, it of course solves and is facing real problems. First of all, we are in agreement with the amendment. It tackles the problems posed by the plenary session of the Presidents of the Bar Associations. There's more tolerable. We agree with the concession of the FIFG building or premises that are essentially needed for maintenance and care. I will pass on to you, Minister, that today the Komotini Municipal Council meets to ask the FIFG...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u23	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u24	You know that. Already the first client knocks at the door. And because this is an emblematic building, because I am Drama's lawyer, we have Komotini, and that is where I made my first appeals, it is a Komotini emblematic building, and it will be very important for us to proceed quickly with this process. The building breaks down and the history of the area breaks down. So it is an important point to which there are convergences. I would like to say to you in the Minutes that, although it is possible to get rid of criminal liability, those who have the administration of associations, cultures with cultural characteristics, are still in them, but their civil obligation remains, and I say it to be in the Minutes, so that such erroneous impressions are not created. Besides, if you want my personal opinion, it is not a criminal offence. It is essentially a sublethal to put pressure on the employer. It is a civil dispute that it is time, in any case, to take the path of civil justice, because the person who does not have, if sentenced to six, eight and ten months' imprisonment, does not change anything in his status, nor does the workers get their money. I close with two major issues, which are of concern to all of us, and we must also be employed as a National Representation and as a Greek society. The case of NOVARTIS has come to an end and the US State will collect hundreds of millions of euros from NOVARTIS, which has signed a practical compromise, which is essentially a concession agreement, recognizing its overall responsibility, because it has tried to corrupt Greece - I repeat: in Greece - officials of the state mechanism, government officials, doctors, to be able to increase its profits. It's a blow to those who've been talking about a craftsman all the time. We have a formal documentation above responsibility, and the way for the Greek State is opening up to exercising its statutory rights for the compensation that has been paid and that is due to the illegal practice followed by the company. I would also like to say something else, which, as a Greek citizen, as a Member of Parliament, has really shaken me. I am very concerned by the statement by America that it will provide political asylum to the protected witnesses. What is going on, ladies and gentlemen? Are these people in danger? Do these people, who came in before to uncover a scandal, need to cover an international force to continue their lives? What is happening and how is this need for political asylum identified? We must be very concerned about all of them, because these issues throw the country away, they drop the country's level, and they create a false picture throughout the international legal order. Greece is not one of the countries that their people solve their accounts in other ways, it should not be, and this is a mistaken message that the government has to think very much about this whole time as a first concern to depreciate, reveal and undermine the credibility of the witnesses, it has created this impression in the international legal order. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u25	Thank you. He now has the floor, Mr. Nadia Giannakopoulos, from the Change Movement for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are debating today the draft law on codification and the modernisation of the Court of Auditors' legislation, when we have a week in which we have been in disguise in both the work of the pre-inquiry committee and the press reports, in fact, the existence of an offense that took place on the days of the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government. Our justice, in fact our own democracy and institutions and the confidence of Greek citizens in them, is constantly being shaken, as unprecedented things, unprecedented practices come out every day in the light of publicity. So it is time, ladies and gentlemen, for the knife to reach the bone. So it is time, ladies and gentlemen, for justice to fall full of light everywhere, for this whole foul atmosphere to be investigated. It is time to raise the issue of institutional guarantees to protect the legitimacy, transparency, good administration and credibility of the policy itself. And just one such opportunity is provided by the draft law on the Court of Auditors, whose institutional role is of paramount importance for the transparent functioning of a rule of law. I have said so, ladies and gentlemen, in my speech at the outset. The Court of Auditors is precisely this historical memory and dynamic. And I said in my speech at the outset that this is an institution that, in fact, existed from ancient times, since the operation of Athenian democracy. The big thing, therefore, is how we can ensure all those conditions so that this very important institution can fully respond to its main and most important tasks, namely the thorough control of the costs of the State, the public, the OTA, the legal persons of public law, as well as the allocation of responsibilities to the public administrations. But you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, because you have heard a great deal during both the committee debate and the plenary, to restore some things. We need to restore certain things and, in particular, historical truth and correctness. Mr Minister, you yourself must not commit to mistakes which falsify the historical truth. The reason I am saying this is because it is essentially about the way politics works in our country, Mr Minister, and we need to operate above all in truth, with historical truth, with coolness and not with falsification of real events and events only for small-party benefit, which is the very basis of populism itself. And let us finally prove that after ten whole years of crisis we have all matured, our political system has matured and can be lifted over a puppet populism that takes us back instead of taking us forward. We cannot, then, forget that the statistical collection office is not the first time that this draft law has been created. It has been created, regardless of whether it could work better. But until then a top reform was introduced on the government of Haris Kastanidis and PASOK governance in 2010. And we have told you that if you want to carry out this reform properly, this article should not just be spent on the costs of the process and the quantitative performance of each judicial unit, but essentially explore the reasons that lead to delays in the administration of justice. Nor can we forget, Minister, that the greatest upgrading and incision to the role and functioning of the Court of Auditors has so far been effectively guaranteed by Law 4055/2012 on PASOK, at the time of the Minister of Miltiades Papaioannou. And then it was, Minister, who was introduced for the first time the leading reform of the institution of the model trial, the pilot trial for the decongestion of the public by manifestly unfounded appeals and appeals, especially for pension cases and matters which have been judged in full by the Court of Auditors. It was then that the statutory audit was brought into line with those in the European area and it was essential to respect the audit standards of the International Higher Audit Agency. It was when the General Committee of State, the General Commissioner of State, was substantially upgraded to an independent judicial authority, which acts uniformly and all lawyers know how important this role is. That was when a series of measures were put in place to clear up all the outstanding cases, such as the creation of a minor plenary session and much more. These were top and brave reforms, Minister, which facilitated speeding up the administration of justice. However, there have continued to be serious problems, and that is why we have welcomed the draft law that you have brought us, which has been created by judges, by the legislative committee set up by the previous government and which solves well-established issues and helps to better and faster the administration of justice by the Court of Auditors. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need a minute, Mr President. We are therefore positive in codification and in the single procedural text established for the operation of the Court of Auditors. We are positive about the introduction of a comprehensive legislative framework for the pre-contractual audit carried out by the Court of Auditors, and we have asked you to lower this amount further. We are positive about the provisions for the processing of statistical data, but it was our job. Finally, we are positive about the creation of special chambers in political and administrative courts in order to resolve years of issues, which - if you like - are dissuasive of investment activity. However, we have pointed out that this should not in any way mean depriving human resources of the rest of justice. And we stress that. As regards the amendment you are bringing us, it is first of all an amendment to the Ministry of Justice, and that is something positive, because we have unfortunately seen many amendments coming, Mr Minister. I would remind you of the election commitments both from Mr Mitsotakis and all of you and the law, which you are, of course, substantially infringing by bringing unnecessarily and late amendments to these bills. We are, therefore, positive in your amendment, the Ministry of Justice, because quite simply, apart from solving well-established issues and positions of legal associations, it has been done in consultation with the plenary of the legal associations of the country, and that is important, that institutions are heard, which have to do with the very functioning of justice. I would like to close with the amendment tabled by the Change Movement, tabled by our Parliamentary Group, to remove the deadlock created by many workers who claim to satisfy their claims to be bankrupt or to the detriment of which they are still running. As has been demonstrated on the occasion of the case of former employees of the newspaper "ELLEROTYPIA", Minister, the amendment of the relevant provisions by the SYRIZA Government - ANLE in 2015 and 2018 has brought workers and their families, who see their demands to be in doubt, due to the claims of the banks. With this amendment brought by our group, it was essentially intended to remove social injustice to the detriment of workers themselves, namely, those who supported the operation of these businesses, particularly in the context of the crisis. That is why we ask you to accept it, because it solves a huge social injustice and because it is necessary if you want us to get into this notorious regularity, which you were speaking about in an election. We're waiting to see her now. The other amendments will be put in place when we hear the relevant ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u27	The floor is now given by the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. We have already mentioned the whole thing. The criticism we have made in this bill does not focus on the legislative process of codifying the diffused legislation on the functioning of the Court of Auditors, which is certainly a tool and is not a problematic one, but on the very content of the reactionary changes brought about by the bill, and already the existing provisions that could be amended in this process, since you are moving on to broader changes, which are there, and which essentially illustrate an overall effort made by the government following the work of its predecessors, to adapt justice to the new needs of the capitalist economy, so that it also operates as a mechanism to shield the system in conditions of economic crisis. This is evident both in the provisions relating to the adjustment of the Court of Auditors' function, so that it is better controlled on the basis of the government's objectives, of course, of investors, of business groups and of workers, small bio-palers, professionals, pensioners and other economically weak sections, and of course of course of the other provisions on speeding up the administration of justice - as you baptise them - who are essentially serving that purpose, with more conceivable and provocative Articles 359 and 360, for creating the investment parts in which you all stand. They are investment parts that are of strong interest to large business groups. They highlight to all their greatness the role the government attaches to justice, justice on order - ordinancesa - of big capital. And, of course, it is not just a challenge to legislate in luxurious fast-track procedures when people's affairs of all kinds, even labour disputes, cars and others, which concern wider popular strata, put in place and are dating in the courts, but this situation will substantially worsen the already burdened other departments, since the staffing of special investment departments with experienced judges and staff will deprive this potential of the rest of these courts. From this point of view and our criticism of Article 358, for the establishment of the Office for the Collection and Processing of Judicial Statistics, is not for this very reason the tool of data collection. It is not in itself a problem - positive it could have been, as you are trying to present it - but on the basis of what data you are asking for statistical results, that is, that you set as a criterion the cost of the process and the quantitative performance of each judicial unit, as if we were talking about machine performances and, above all, how the conclusions drawn will be used. We also stressed it in our previous position that the intentions expressed on the part of the government are to be used not to improve the functioning of justice for the benefit of workers and the people, but as an alibi essentially for the reactionary objectives in the field of justice, as an argument for the promotion of the judiciary 'Kallikras', the abolition of courts with similar criteria for judges and others that you have already stated. This is where the Court of Auditors operates, because you are essentially trying to seal whatever mark, since any possibility of public spending being effectively controlled is considered to be dangerous, it is annoying if it does not serve the priorities of capitalist development, namely the profit of business groups at the expense of the people's needs. In this sense, the provisions of Articles 63, which give rise to increased powers to the General Commissioner of the Court of Auditors, or to Article 90 and 93, in which, on the pretext of speeding up, the President shall be given powers over the collective function of the section, which may also, on the basis of unambiguous criteria, introduce actions to the Council, effectively affecting the publicity of the case, when he considers that he cannot be tried within a reasonable period of time. They are provisions which serve the best from the top of the process of giving justice. With regard to the answers you have given us, Minister, on the criticism we have made of the articles, we have studied the issues we have raised about the bill. If we could actually codify them in fact, it is in the sense that it concerns regulations which have been in force for some years now, or which have been applied in a similar way to other procedures in the administrative proceedings, as well as in the Council of State, and that justifies the extension and incorporation of these procedures and the Court of Auditors. The fact that these provisions were already in force in other procedures does not make them less reactionary and problematic, of course not of unsuccessful criticism. Therefore, instead of going into new procedures, they could also be extended to the Court of Auditors, and they could also be removed from the procedures in place. That is why we are also criticising them. These are the provisions of the articles on the actual referral of cases by the Chamber of the Court of Auditors, either in the form of a preliminary ruling or in the form of the so-called'standard proceedings' which substantially undermines the necessary constitutional control of the Court of Justice or, of course, the even more reactionary provision that we have repeatedly pointed out and consider to be particularly problematic in Article 301 which is the continuation of the relevant decisions made by the Council of State for retired persons, where you are now expanding and enforcing the legislative capacity of the Court of Auditors to allow an unlawful act or omission of the public to take effect as long as the decision is adopted. This is something you can understand that it is problematic that the State actually accepts it, and for reasons of protection - you say - in the public interest. Perhaps in this way you will try to give legality to an up-to-date practice that we have seen in the last decade and within the House, from all governments and New Democracy, SYRIZA and PASOK in the past, so that, through the House, they can be legitimised, after all, by means of multiple laws, expenditure which the Court of Auditors has shown as illegal, such as hospitals that were struggling with its multinationals and also with OTAs. This possibility of government interventions you want to extend it also through the procedure laid down in Article 343, which is nothing more than the legalisation of the government majority to give the Court of Auditors the direction in which checks are carried out on the basis of government objectives and purposes. It is also indicative of the nature of the pre-contractual audit carried out by the Court of Auditors, which is legality control and not appropriateness, of the provocative treatment in relation to the execution of services in maritime cabotage, namely shipowners, to which they are exempt from the obligation to submit a draft contract before it is drawn up. The fact of course, Minister, that the provision had been in place since 2001 does not make it any less provocative, rather proves the timeless and time-consuming favors enjoyed by the governments of this country. Moreover, under the pretext of speeding up procedures or exceptional circumstances, even the mechanisms of the urban state, which, of course, were not able to formulate a politi­cal policy, have provided some guarantees of legality in the management of public money, such as preventive control. I would briefly like to refer to the second amendment tabled by the JRC. We note that we are also waiting for the other parties and the Government to be placed on the first amendment we have tabled in relation to transparency in the media funds for public advertising. We expect the representatives of the other parties to be placed. We have tabled a second amendment calling, in essence, for the benefit of labour requirements to be restored in the case of the auctioning of the debtor's property - an employer of the workers, or for the sale of bankruptcy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It moves in similar logic. A similar amendment was tabled on the part of the Change Movement. However, this is essentially about the application in old cases of old legislation. We are essentially asking for this privilege to be restored as a whole, which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has abolished, namely the privilege of labour disputes in relation to the requirements of the banks, which are predominant to two-thirds of the auction of bankruptcy, so that workers and whatever protection they have left. And it is well known that workers are the last to have to fight against their employer or because of economic poverty, of course, along with increased costs of recourse to justice and of course also because of threats to job losses. On the contrary, both banks and privileged creditors have several weapons in their hands. Of course, we do not consider the small improvement that SYRIZA tried to make in 2018, where it provided for privileges for labour requirements, but these are limited only to unpaid salaries of only six months and only to a limited level of remuneration.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u29	My colleague, you're over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u30	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute or so. It is a solution that does not alter the loss of privilege and opens up a way to how wage claims are categorised. We seek to restore this injustice. I conclude by referring to one of the provisions of the amendment, which you have not actually mentioned in the previous days, Minister. We regard it as problematic that Article 6 allows, in the event that legal persons of a non-profit-making nature, not to be paid a criminal liability by legal representatives for the non-payment of recruits, except in cases where their liability for another act is established. It is at least acidifying to say that you are doing this in the interest of the advancement of culture, not to mention it anyway. You are effectively leaving the workers unprotected to pay off, and you are baptising this as a sign of sensitivity to culture. It is well known and you have shown in other cases your sensitivity to culture. We think you're opening dangerous roads, so you can come and say...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u31	Madam Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u32	I'm hanging up with this. You will come to say that such exceptions will apply in a similar way in other cases, for example, the development of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Konstantinos Hetas has the floor from the Greek Solution for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we've been through this. We've said too much. The truth is, we've analysed quite a few of the bill. So today you will allow me to analyse some of the elements that we are opposed to. We all agree, Mr Chiara, that coding legislation is a technical tool, which we need as much as we need. He can help, the work of justice is understood. To agree, however, on something else, that codification alone is not enough, it is not enough for codification to solve the problems we face. It is a point to which I referred in my previous speech, Minister, that there should be such legislative interventions that meet the needs of the Greek people and society. In other words, when it comes to making a new structure, it is important to take some provisions to the right and to the left, or anything else, but these provisions that we transfer from the past to today must also improve them in line with the needs that our society now demands. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we will all agree on this - it has nothing to do with this - and that makes sense - with Greece ten years ago or fifteen years ago and goes by saying. Our society is no longer the same. In these ten years the Greek people, the Greek citizens, have kneeled from an incredible economic crisis. Now, we're living it again because of the consequences of the coronary. We also have other very important issues, such as the huge issue of illegal immigration. In Greece, in recent years, non-governmental organisations - because we will stay there and insist, Minister, no matter how strange it is - are growing up like mushrooms, with many uncontrolled actions for NGOs and effects. It is'slow' our language to shout and we will call it, but unfortunately, it seems that you are not taking measures to prevent them from acting. I do not, of course, need to point out how far the tentacles of non-governmental organisations can reach in relation to the management of public money. And that is very important, and we know it and you know it, we just don't move. In order to be more specific, Article 51, since the debate today is on the articles, if there is no legality, it should only be possible to separate a document and not to provide for an obligation to lodge an independent document. In paragraph 51, there is a risk that contradictory decisions will be taken, after separation is ordered, when the number of judges exceeds 10. I would like to point out, Minister, and I will be brief, because I think that we have referred to too many articles and made our points on the basis of practical support - because that is what we are interested in - by the Greek taxpayer, we believe that paradoxes should not only be increased, but should be abolished already. This is very important to us. The paradox is even more burdened by the commander, and we should pass laws facilitating access to justice rather than preventing it. We should make access to justice easier for Greek citizens and not more difficult. That is why we believe that this is a discriminatory treatment for Greek citizens, when Article 317 provides for the possibility of exempting them from misconduct and fees and to legal persons who do not pursue a profitable purpose. I've analysed it in my previous speech. It is now even more so when legal aid is provided for these legal persons under Article 323. That is why - and I reply to your comment, in your reply the other day - you should clearly exclude these privileges for legal persons dealing with actions such as immigration. I note that this exception is not in breach of the Constitution, Minister, nor is it in breach of international conventions, since the exemption from misrepresentation and other costs by definition concerns and protects citizens. So you can only exclude non-profit organisations involved in immigration, so that we can be facilitated. Accordingly, you may provide in Article 322 that the State is not liable to pay the costs of the proceedings where those legal persons lose the proceedings. I mean, these companies, non-profit companies, they do a trial, they lose the trial, and when they lose the trial, the public must pay them the costs. What's the point? There's no reason. If I lose a trial tomorrow, I'll pay my lawyer, there's no way. Legislation where it should be. Totally remove the judiciary in pension cases. A comment on the pre-contractual check. You have, of course, reduced the limits and not increased them, as was the case yesterday by some other colleagues, you have reduced it, but the EUR 1 million we think should be lower, as should the EUR 5 million when it comes to European money, i.e. resources from the European Union. Both EUR 2.5 million and EUR 4.5 million and EUR 4.9 million are too large to pass without control. That is our view. Also, as we have told you many times about the management of the Greek state debt, you are completely excluded from the control of the contracts that are taking place under the Greek government's loan and debt management programme. What for? Not only that, for maritime cabotage, that is, for shipowners, as we have told you, but also for the services on the route, you are making provision for the possibility of retrospective submission of contracts. I mean, you're giving them a big bonus here. I will conclude with a general comment, Minister, for this rule of law, and have spent a lot of time in my speech last week. By leaving the Court of Auditors a little, I made a comment in general on the rule of law. I will not go into the theoretical approaches and analyses of the rule of law and fair trial and justice. I see that things in our country are not right and you know that very well too. Illegal immigration is gigantic, heinous crimes, crimes against young children, crimes against elderly people make our society boil, but we all here as representatives of the Greek people must not stay spectators - we have said so many times - but action is needed now. To tighten the sentences for violent life -long crimes, as the Greek Solution has mentioned many times, to be truly lifelong. But also with regard to financial scandals, to close this and connect it with the current one - in or out of import - it should be our priority to return money to our country and to Greek citizens. To close with the issue of 'NOVARTIS', which is about timeliness and everyday life, Minister, Turkey is directly threatening invasion. Our economy is crumbling and those who go out know it very well. Our country is inhabited. That's the truth, no matter how much I say to some people in here. The Greeks are unfortunately targeted, and that is true. Those who still have jobs, which are few, are getting a cut-off wage, underscoring even more the prospects of the economy. And you know, half the job, half the money. NOVARTIS, as it turns out, stole billions from Greece, billions from our country, but it pays to America. Not here yet. I hope you claim money. The parties of power, instead of being slaughtered for the substance, are slaughtered for CDs and cassettes by methods reminiscent of mafia and cosa stones. They prove they're incapable - both of them and of managing moments. They are few - and I will close with it - to cope with the greatness of Hellenism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u35	The floor is now given by the Special Rapporteur of Mera25 Mr. Fotini Bakadima.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the second day and the articles on the draft law on the Court of Auditors. Because of the large scale of the bill, you will allow me to concentrate today only on certain provisions which are problematic to us. So let us start with Article 324 and subject to pre-contractual control. Firstly, we believe that the sum of 300,000 should be paid to 200,000 and, if it were to be reduced even further, for example at 60,000, it would be even more positive, given that every amount of contract, whether we talk about 10,000 or 150,000, is the money of the Greek public, is the money of the Greek citizens. Therefore, thorough monitoring of each amount should be carried out and necessary. So we go a little further than the exceptions to pre-contractual control as described in Article 325. The pre-contractual control excludes, inter alia, contracts concluded under the Greek State’s loan and debt management programme and public service contracts for the execution of services in maritime cabotage. We disagree vertically with the exception of these types of contracts from pre-contractual control, especially those relating to debt lending and debt management, and we firmly believe that these and those relating to maritime transport should be fully monitored by the Court of Auditors. In fact, we would like an answer on how the Ministry of Justice was led to take this decision to exclude these two categories. Article 339, entitled "Confidentiality Regulations for the sections of the Court of Auditors", is to amend Article 8 of Law No 4129/2013, in greater detail than the law in question, the Court of Auditors' jurisdiction cases, as distributed to the seven sections of the Court of Auditors, in order to allow the plenary to proceed with a redistribution of differences of opinion, as well as to change the number, composition and responsibilities of the steps. You'll tell me it's purely procedural. Yeah, it's purely procedural. We wonder, however, whether there is the Ministry's intention to be able and to see that additional departments are also set up at the Court of Auditors if necessary. Moving on... Article 348 and protection of auditors. It is extremely important to protect the auditors legally. We would like - and this is the point that causes us to deal with and comment on this article - to further specify their protection framework, as it is like sending them to a war without the necessary ammunition. In view of the fact that several cases have been recorded where auditors are inconvenienced and dragged into long-term judicial disputes simply because they have done their duty to carry out an audit, we think that we should take further legislative initiatives to protect them. I'm going back to Article 342 and the targeted checks. Now it's the Commissioner's choice. We propose that this provision should be changed a little to include the case where something arises in the course of a plenary approved targeted audit, that there should be the possibility of additional checks of this kind in cooperation with the coordinating body without having to go back through next year's plenary session, which if applied as it is, perhaps we should get to a process that can take up to two years. Ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, the Court of Auditors is the country's highest financial court and the only external auditor in the state, which is why I cannot help but mention the preventive control which it has carried out until the outset, as it controlled expenditure before they were paid off. However, preventive control has ceased for about a year, as a number of legislations from 2010 onwards, for example n.136/11, n.4331/2015 in Article 10 thereof, and n.4611/2019 Article 125 initially managed to shrink and ultimately abolish preventive control, with a key objective ultimately non-control. A permanent justification was the delay in the reimbursement of expenditure, which was not the case, because by law any audit of expenditure was compulsory to end within five days. If we look at the abstention of the excuse, the issue of time-limits, we will find the proof, since there has been no end to preventive control, precisely the opposite: there is a constant increase in these. Certainly preventive control needed improvement, as those expenditure which did not go beyond the Court of Auditors' control were paid either through legal provisions or through other courts, but its abolition was not the solution. Unfortunately, we have now led to a series of superficial checks which often lead to categorisation, with the most common result of endless recommendations. Today, in addition to this draft law and the provisions of Article 333, the Single Independent Authority for Public Contracts is given the opportunity to assist the Court of Auditors in exercising its jurisdiction over pre-contractual control disputes by intervening in the relevant proceedings or by carrying out the tasks of consultant in particular technical matters when requested. Although the tasks are of a technical nature, we consider it incomprehensible that an independent authority, an administrative agency, should assist a supreme court. It would be more useful, we think, and certainly more beneficial to take care, taking the necessary initiatives, to maneuver the court with engineers, technicians and scientists of other specialties so that he can alone do his job. It is worth noting that there has been a written invitation to tender for the Court of Auditors since 1992. Furthermore, why continue to allow secondments from the Court of Auditors to be made to various other agencies and even to political offices, when we consider it to be subordinated? Why don't we decide to put an end to this by directing to an SAPA contest? Is it possible to choose as a solution to involve an independent authority with judicial authority? As far as the other provisions are concerned, such as the paradoxes, the special sections, the Statistical Control Agency, the possibility for Parliament to ask for priority control, I believe that I have been placed extensively and adequately at all our previous meetings. Therefore, I will not come back today. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we find that it would be extremely useful in the context of preventive control, which should be reintroduced, to include a kind of control which is not the Court of Auditors' powers up to now, as the Court of Auditors can only exercise control over sound financial management, which is to check compliance with the objectives and suitability of the instruments put in place, but not appropriate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'll be out in a minute. As MERA25, we consider that the feasibility check is extremely important. For this reason, in the coming period, Minister, you will have in your hands a proposal on how this enlargement and the inclusion of this kind of control on public procurement and on projects within the powers of the Court of Auditors should be carried out, as, in accordance with these existing provisions, monitoring the feasibility of administrative acts evade these responsibilities. This is one point which we find needs to be changed, even if we proceed with the inclusion of only the provision for the collection of feasibility studies, something which the European Court of Auditors is going on with. Returning - and closing with this - to the legislation under discussion, although we voted against it at first, we will support those provisions which we consider to be positive in voting for the articles in question. As far as the other amendments are concerned, we will wait for the presentation and suggestion of the relevant ministers to be put forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, my colleague. Mrs Bakadima is always in her time and, to be honest, she should have a greater tolerance. Mrs Zetta Makrei has the floor now from New Democracy. Here, Mrs. Macrie, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u38	I will try not to disappoint you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, within a year of taking over the government from New Democracy, we who support this government and are part of the government's majority, are pleased to observe the continued and effective effort of Mr Mitsotakis and his government staff to win the bet to upgrade the quality of life of our fellow citizens and to restore and restore the country's economy as soon as possible. The way to win the bet is a unique one: substantial, modern, radical, innovative reforms and deep areas of reconstruction and the organisation of the public sector, which at the same time mark the proper functioning of a modern European state, ready to cope actively and successfully with the many and various challenges of the time. There is no doubt that the strengthening of the rule of law is a structural precondition for a country's economic development. Due to the criticality of this universal admission in this parliamentary term, five bills of the Ministry of Justice have been introduced for discussion in plenary. The rate of production of these is marked in relation to that of the past. The four have been voted on and implemented in order to regain the confidence of citizens in the institutions, but also to speed up the procedures and dismantle the courts. The extrajudicial compromise to mediation has been passed, and this bill will be passed, as we hope, and the institution of the Judge-Rapporteur will be. The Fifth Legislation, which we are discussing today, is characterised by innovatory substance of its content, and symbolic, because of the procedures that have been followed for its introduction to plenary. The Government, faithful to its commitments, with this legislative initiative, proceeds to update, consolidate and codify the existing legislation of the Court of Auditors, and the content of this initiative has been approved for the first time by the Committee on the quality evaluation of legislation. Strengthening the independence of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen, as well as the very rapid pace of awarding with respect always the right to access the court, as the Constitution defines, are the primary objectives of the present government. Studies of the International Monetary Fund, the OECD and the World Bank show that the smooth and independent functioning of justice is linked to the flow of foreign direct investment, since 93% of large firms systematically examines the conditions relating to the rule of law in the countries in which it invests. It is also linked to a higher turnover of enterprises and an increase in productivity. This fact may, of course, have an extremely high degree of importance and importance for all of us who support liberal policies, but I think we all have to say that the quickest administration of justice is a common purpose either for an investor and businessman or for a simple and often weak citizen. Indeed, basic reform in the justice system is primarily the modernisation of its operation. This legislative initiative finally regulates the case of the Court of Auditors. Over the years, it has been well known to all of us, especially to us lawyers, the existence of diverse provisions in different bills concerning the Court of Auditors, either the Code of Civil Procedure or the Code of Administrative Procedure. This outdated practice has caused the irresponsible need to collect and integrate all these provisions into a single code of legislation, enabling the Court of Auditors to function effectively and to serve responsibly and transparently, without the need to interpret its roles, which are no more than the actual control of public service. To be fair, the attempt to unify and codify the legislation of the Court of Auditors has been launched for many years by processing all the data and all the procedures of a reality found to have suffered from pathogens from the Court's own servants. That is why they deserve warm congratulations to Thessalonica, Minister of Justice, Mr Chiara, to his staff, as well as to the Deputy Minister, who embraced and completed this great effort. In addition to this technical innovation, however, there are two political innovations in this bill. The first concerns the creation of a Statistical Directorate at the Ministry of Justice. It is an excellent and modern initiative of the Ministry's political leadership to set up an independent special service for the collection and processing of statistical data which will make use of the integrated information systems of justice. These tools will allow objective imprinting of the current situation in the courts and the design by the political leadership or leadership of the supreme judiciary for justice or any other corrections, improvements and reforms for a definitely different map in justice, which has been a lot to say in recent years. The second innovation relates to the pilot establishment of special sections in the country's major prototypes and appeals in Athens and Thessaloniki, i.e. four judicial structures in both prototypes, both of which will be managed by specialised judges who will prescribe mainly personal data, telecommunications and energy matters. This policy will also be the only, essentially, criterion for upgrading Greek justice, as it is judged by the European institutions that this is how Greece strengthens real competition. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a number of reform areas which will facilitate quality and speed in the administration of justice, a justice that is the main element of its operation and its quality of independence. Unfortunately, in the last few days, the revelations, on the basis of the work of the pre-review committee, have shown the systematic effort to grasp it, which has shaped a lax atmosphere in the public scene over the last four and a half years. Former Prime Ministers were divided, Ministers were found and apologies with constructed novelist charges that question their moral integrity and overall personalities have been easily sprung without hope, solely for their invasion by their political opponents. This picture of misery and the impoverishment of justice must be eradicated and we must all immediately, collectively and collectively. The clear message we should send is that the area of justice must be left out of practices that have hurt him in the past and have created a great deal of question and insecurity to the average Greek citizen to protect his fundamental freedoms and his rights. This bill is part of a series of laws of the Ministry of Justice which demonstrate the government's determination to go ahead with radical and deep reforms in the justice system and not allow it to work solely for political purposes. We all have to support and vote for this effort, primarily by giving the message in every direction for a new spirit of ethos and independence within it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much for the time. Mr Alexandros Aylonite has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I constantly hear the speakers of the New Democracy sanctifying the bill, saying what good it is, what beautiful it is. They have found neither a party nor one mistake or something to complete in this bill and in whatever bills I have seen being discussed in this House. I don't think that's the Member's role. The role of the Member is to tell his opinion, to table amendments, to consider with other Members of the other parties. This is Parliament's essential work.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u43	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u44	I was planning, Minister, to devote my time to the bill, since I'm also a lawyer. But, frankly, I would like to ask you, Minister, directly: Do you like this climate outside here? This toxic climate that has been created in the last few days you like? It's about your sector. You have specific responsibilities. You are a member of the government, but you are running this structure called justice. Do you like what's going on outside and what's going on in this House? I have not heard you say your personal position, your political position, to safeguard the institution of justice. Let me give you an example with the Minister, Mr Georgiadis, please tell me, frankly, when a Minister is on television, in a mass media, who is he representing? Doesn't he represent his ministry? Each one who goes to TV must have two labels, namely, 'I now speak as a natural person' and 'I am now speaking as Minister'?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u45	That, I guess, was happening before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u46	Listen to what I'm saying right now and leave it behind. Do not condemn the 'older'. What I am saying today is that the government and various ministers are Janu. Is it possible for a Minister, even if he is involved in a case and is controlled by justice, to say those words? Have you seen here how many cases of immunity have been discussed and even to the extent of a felony, which the Members of Parliament are well aware of, say their problem and the account they have with justice and which we are voting on? This toxic climate I created, where am I a new MP? I'll be out in a while. What are you doing as Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u47	You have to ask about the previous period.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u48	What are you doing as Minister? You're answering me. It is Mr Petsa's answer to say - listen, to read to you once again: 'Georgiadis has not spoken' he wanted to say he did not threaten, he did not find himself as a minister of government, but as a ordinary citizen, who has expressed a personal indignation over the fact that his case has not been clarified for years'. What about the other cases? Why is he not indignant about other cases that are ten to fifteen years old, but only about his case and justify that as an indignation, as a natural person? Why? Why don't you do that, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u49	You're having such a bad conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u50	Why don't you do it? Answer me later, if you're kind. It really is, Janus. One face in front, one face in the back. I'm talking about Roman deity. Let me tell you something else. We are talking about the Court of Auditors. Very well you make a good bill - SYRIZA's government had worked on it too - and you bring it. But the big picture is justice. And you see if this institution is working properly today in Greece? Let me give you a typical example.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u51	Ask your colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u52	Please very much, Minister. In the pre-review committee, you know... Can you hear me a bit, please? And don't do that, it's not polite.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u53	Ask your colleagues!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u54	Do you know that there is a law that says - and I am addressing the Members - that it is forbidden when a witness is testifying to the pre-review committee to come out what he testifies to the media'maganda'? Has he said a word? You must go and say, as Minister of Justice, "Excuse me, within Parliament is committed by a Member of Parliament's offence." Have you said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u55	Ask previous colleagues what was happening before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u56	You haven't said that. Watch out, in the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u57	But are you asking me such a question? For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u58	Please, Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u59	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u60	If you don't know, ask you to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Colleague, there is no dialogue. Don't ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u62	It's a rhetorical question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u63	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u64	Ask you to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u65	Minister, please, calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u66	It's a rhetorical question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u67	All right, we're taking it. Please look at colleagues - there are so many here in the Chamber - that we can continue the process. Then the Minister, if he wants anything to answer, he will. Thank you very much, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u68	When I ask the Minister, it doesn't mean he'll answer me now. It's a rhetorical question. If he wants to, he's answering. I wish he would answer my questions. For example, a taped conversation is used by MPs in the pre-review committee. We're saying it's illegal. It's Article 370. Do you know when Article 370 of the Criminal Code was passed? When you couldn't talk to a journalist, because you were sure he had a tape recorder somewhere. Then Article 370 of the Criminal Code was established. Why don't you say anything, regardless of whether he supports your arguments that you discovered that SYRIZA is a parastate and all of this? Why don't you say about the illegality of the material used in this building, the glorified thing called the House? Why don't you say it. Let me tell you something else. My party rapporteur and my friend, Mr. Xanthopoulou, said so. He said this about what is happening with the US government. You heard - you heard: the US government is inclined to friendship with Greek citizens and more specifically the three protected witnesses from US justice and tells them that if you want political asylum, I will grant you. This is not a trick for our justice system. What does the U.S. government do and say something like that? So I, the Congressman of Corfu, the lawyer for so many years, should I not tell you this? It doesn't honor the Greek state. It's a plunder for our jurisprudence system and our own state system. Shouldn't I say it? And I ask you: shouldn't you say it? Should you not say that all Greek citizens enjoy equal rights in Greek justice and protected witnesses will be protected here too? Say it loud. You are heard by the world and by the international community. You're not saying that. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I had a lot to say. I will also ask you some questions concerning the legal profession - not to spend all my time on these matters. I asked you personally and other colleagues: What are you going to do with lawyers? Will you give them the 800 euros, as with the other Greek citizens? Will you include them in the scheme in this regard - I do not remember exactly the phrase - of the repayable advance? And please, Mr. President, to come to the bill. I would like to ask you to strengthen your staff, as far as the Court of Auditors of Corfu is concerned. You heard they told you there were few there. That's the first. I will express my disagreement with Article 359 of your bill in relation to the creation of special sections in the political and administrative courts of Athens and Thessaloniki. You put the province's lawyers on issues relating to EU law on electronic communications, energy and the protection of personal data to go to trial cases in Thessaloniki and Athens. I want you to look at this. I think it should remain the same as the whole story and the Corfu man who has such a claim to be tried in Corfu. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying this: first, Mr Minister, I would ask you, if you are kind to what I have said, to reply to me. I would remind you with all the power my word has to say that justice must have at its core all citizens without exception. Justice is - and must be - the home of every citizen, his refuge. We must protect the prestige of justice, restore citizens' confidence in it. That is why I am telling you, Minister, that you have a great responsibility to protect this great right of Greek citizens, the right to appeal to justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u69	Thank you. The Minister has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time in the five bills I have presented to the plenary of the Greek Parliament, which I would ask to speak outside the ordinary procedure. I believe in the parliamentary procedure and support it in every possible way from my side. I do so, because if you want to continue the debate that has just begun, Mr President, I can assure you that we will have a great deal to say in this Chamber. They won't have anything to do with the bill. But we'll say too much. I would ask him, because he is a new colleague, to be informed not only by his colleagues, but also by other colleagues who were here in this Chamber the previous parliamentary term, to know what exactly happened and how a reality was supported by the previous government. You need to know - and I say it not to hurt you - that since the July 2019 elections, we have returned a page. Justice is and operates independently of any influence of the political system. The well-known practices, which have been in the light of publicity in recent years - and not just - do not exist today, my dear fellow Member. I assure you of that. Please leave these nominations, because if we start a debate like this - and I commend your colleagues from the SYRIZA who, at all the previous meetings of the bill, did not support it, thankfully - I assure you that we can all say a lot. But I believe that the debate on each bill should enable us to remain critical of the bill. You have made sure to say little forty seconds before the eight-minute closing, which you are entitled to speak here. If you want to support your parliamentary presence in this way, I understand that. On the other hand, however, you must also understand that all of the things that concern a reality of the past, which we want to return to, is open space in order to express opinions which will obviously create a very great difficulty. You know where. You know who.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u71	We're continuing with Mrs. Marietta Yannaku. My colleague, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. This bill, in fact, is of great interest in considering that the 10-year economic crisis that took place, beyond the political and economic issues, undoubtedly also involved the inadequacy of the administration and functioning of justice, which, of course, is often expressed in the sense of 'accelerating justice', in order to satisfy the well-founded demands of Greek citizens. In fact, most of them comment accordingly and refer to the weaker classes of Greek citizens, who rely on to find their point of view, as is more simply said, exclusively in justice. The Court of Auditors is a very important institution. Knowledge about the Court of Auditors does not have much of a large number of Greek citizens. But, following on from the European events, we will see the enormous importance and value of the Court of Auditors of the European Union and the European Union. Together with budgets and budget discharge, they really are key tools for a pan-European policy. The large report of the OECD 2011, which deals with the Greek public administration entitled ‘Review of the Central Administration in Greece’ highlighted the very serious problems in the organisation of the Greek State, the lack of coordination, and the lack of cooperation of the State services, the absence of a strong governance centre, the lack of transparency, delays due to bureaucracy and all kinds of housing, which in practice prevented real institutional changes and modernisation. A further large study, also at the same time, of the Kinsey report entitled ‘Greece ten years ahead’ highlighted the negative impact of public administration on the business and economic environment, the economic environment and between them, the delays by the administrative and judicial services of the State, as they operated. We must not have any doubt, then, that much has changed since then. And the economic crisis was a real trick for the Greek system in general. Proof of this is that this bill has started a preparation since 2018. In other words, it is not a draft law, which comes under close political criteria relating to the current ruling party. And that's what we have to admit. In the field of justice, of course, a legitimate criticism has been made many times without entering into the logic of litigation with the judiciary. In fact, we can see this clearly distinguished in the European Union report entitled 'EU Justice Scoreboard'. The country in most private indices is not working well. That is to say, it is below the average. It is therefore also necessary through this bill to pursue better development goals, a better pace in the administration of justice, because that is also a question of democracy. That is, what I referred to in the principle of the weaker citizens, their claims and their rights when they are wronged or when their own state is wrong. The substantial improvement in the rules and procedures governing the judiciary with a view to speeding up justice is therefore at the heart of it. That is the major objective of the bill under discussion. I would, of course, like to point out, in particular, that the legislative initiative, as I said before, shows the continuity of the state, since this was initiated by the previous government in 2018 and is completed in the same direction. Now we also need to point out the involvement of the Court of Auditors itself, which knows things, and this involvement seems to have been a great deal of work. That is why there is a more general agreement within the Court of Auditors' premises for this bill. We must say that it is extremely important to carry good practices from other countries of the Union or from the European Union to this issue. Here it seems that there is a transfer of good practices from the French model through the process of learning and transfer of policy, namely the policy learning and policy transfer, which allows us to pursue a policy which has strong coordination with the overall European policy. One of the most interesting points is the two integrated programmes. It is the integrated policy and criminal justice management programme and the integrated programme of administrative justice management. As the Minister himself pointed out in his position at the first meeting, the political leadership did not have sufficient data to really monitor the administration of the justice system and be able to know what weaknesses are and how it can intervene, not in justice, but in the institutional framework, which supports justice. Here we see important innovations. For example, the appointment of the Judge-Rapporteur in cases is an important innovation, because he can fully present the dossiers to the relevant councils and in the same direction as Article 90 and 93 is the role of the President of the department that can truly categorise cases, to take into account cases, that is to say, the necessary framework, which can support the administration of justice. The same is true of discharge in the act of counting where, for example, there are problems relating to the party, who is unable to do so if he is awarded an accountable act, then he can either survive or enjoy his human rights on the basis of the Convention on Human Rights and the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg. More generally, I wanted to say, Mr President, that it is the right momentum to be able to strengthen not only the sense of justice and fairness that must exist between the citizens, but also the economy, the development of the country and the change, the transport of the country as a whole at the level of the most rapid European countries. We are still in a context where we are not allowed to claim that we belong to the former. Nothing, however, prevents us from creating a real modernisation, entering the digital age, as provided for in this bill, and supporting this legislative initiative - and I would ask colleagues to see this with any legitimate criticism - in order to develop a new process of real modernisation, an increase in the speed of judiciary and, in particular, the consolidation of perceptions and institutionalised opinions on the ability of the country and its citizens to rely on justice, actually touch on justice. I would like to congratulate the Minister on what he said in his first and second suggestion and also congratulate him, because it belongs to ministers who do not treat any elements of exaggeration or populism during the presentation of the draft laws and his speeches in Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Giannakou. Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglu from the Change Movement now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill on the functioning of the Court of Auditors, which is essentially the result of a substantial consultation and evaluation of its procedures in order to improve its effectiveness. This is the spirit of good legislature, as the New Democracy has been telling us for some time now, and Mr Gerapetti, the competent Minister of State, has been claiming that he is a scientist. He also brought the relevant bill, but in practice there is a brutal violation of what the New Democracy was calling for, and those that Mr Gerapitritis said, and those that should apply, unfortunately. But, before I go to all of this, because we have a storm of revelations in this time, and I will of course not go into my place on the individual issues, whether they relate to the pre-requesting committee procedure or to the issues that have to do with ministers and with specific interests, to say that one is the conclusion, that we have spent a period - and this is what I consider to be - of governance with SYRIZA, which the main feature was that the real problems of the citizens have not been dealt with by the government. Of course, it imposed overtax. Of course, make sure that CSCE and other social benefits are cut. Of course, it made sure that the workers were behind the banks and behind the public in the rights of bankruptcy, but at the same time that seemed and did not need a revelation so that the Greek people knew about it. Now, what was happening in the background is also revealed, the arrangements of interest with or without the involvement of ministers or other factors. The sure thing is that they are trying to hide and trying to hide are committing and sacrificing. Listen, listen! People compared the reference of Andreas Papandreou to the reference of Papagelopoulos. This is the first sacrilege. The second sacrificial is that Mr. Tsipras and his party and the group - I don't know if they're all together or if they disagree - are telling us about the dirty 1989 thing. And, really, I wonder: is it dirty, finally, in 1989 according to the SYRIZA Coalition or clearance, as the so-called Left has been claiming for years? I close my introductory comment and ask myself: is it accident that both in the 1989 dirty and in the construction against the ten political people play a leading role in the so-called Left of the Coalition and SYRIZA? I close my placement on this, reverting to the issues that have to do with the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in addition to the provisions on which our rapporteur has been placed and we are voting in favour of the Court of Auditors, it is clear that the Government has two sides on the matter of legislating and political management. This theory, which I spoke to you about before and which, in the pre-election, said it would have, and the one which, in practice, seems to be the case many times. Political decisions, government decisions must be made in accordance with the Constitution and applicable laws. This is where it comes from: When we have the intention to make specific decisions with concrete results, but these are insulting the law, this is bad of the law and we will change it. We will change it to 'approximately five', but we will change it to 'no more than one' rather than to the procedures envisaged. So this is where the amendments come with this feasibility, to change the law in order to pass this view and to legitimise it. And I say this: the amendment to the Ministry of Justice is coming. It is, of course, too late, but it is the Ministry, it has come from consultation and it has mature issues, which have been discussed on several occasions in committees. The formality of the election is not a cloak in our view in this particular respect. Minister, I think we agree on this. However, we have two other amendments that are totally unacceptable both in terms of procedure and in terms of feasibility. I'm not actually entering. The amendment of the Ministry of Infrastructure comes to the Ministry of Justice to tell us "I note that before the bill is passed next week, a bill of the Ministry of Infrastructure will come in the next few days - I need to restructure the Ministry's body." Listen. If the Ministry of Infrastructure thinks it can restructure its services without consulting, then how do we call that now? So what's he doing? It says "I remove a series of special services in four regions and the employees, the officials of the Ministry make them a step on the ground of the project". It is a very good, predictable and something that does not conflict with any code and any institutional framework. In Crete, however, he says this office is abolished, I send their workers to the Development Agency..." and blah, blah, blah. Here, then, there is a huge feasibility to do with the organization and its management, because of course eight months they were trying to agree and they did not agree who will. Finally, they agreed on the Chania. For a body of the whole of Crete, Mr. Voloudakis proposed a worthwhile executive and my personal friend for president, he proposed another worthwhile official, Mrs. Dora Bakoyannis, and now think that because they have put their proposals into an organization, we must also give him all the responsibilities of the Infrastructure! This is beyond all ethics, beyond any legal and institutional framework. I will present to you, Minister, the document of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Unities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which refers to the subject and, of course, an e-mail from the workers to the service concerned concerning their treatment with this bill. I think they should take it back and bring it in after consultation with the Ministry of Infrastructure bill. We will vote against. As far as the amendment on sport is concerned, there is the rule 'I come to make decisions, I have to go ahead with cooking things'. Here's the cook deposition! I say, therefore, that an alleged amendment with nine articles without consultation, without consultation, delay and essentially in an irrelevant bill cannot be discussed, cannot walk. We need to withdraw and debate the substance, because it can also contain one or two positive provisions, which are 'burned' by the Minister for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. We have a clear view and I think that good legislation is not a point of order, but a matter of substance. Why good legislation presupposes consultation? Because it requires consultation with parties at political level and with the social partners, so that we can achieve the best. This isn't about it. These are predetermined options, which we want to legalise by law. And I'm not, like I told you, actually. This amendment is unacceptable to us, and it needs to be withdrawn, apart from being contradictory, because, as I have said, it contains two or two positive provisions which dissociate them from other points. I come - and I close with this - in the amendment tabled by the Change Movement on the preferential treatment of workers. That is how we wrote, I saw it now, but I think it is not right to say 'the preferential treatment of workers'. It's about the fair treatment of workers in relation to bankruptcy. Unfortunately, from one point to the next - we are talking about 215 workers at second degree in relation to the banks. All right, bank looting all the way here! Minister, it has two provisions. It has one that brings workers back as a whole as a first right in the bankruptcy procedure and one that clears up what I would like you to notice, because I think you have no reason to accept it. It is essentially the true concept of arrangements and it says that any procedures that had been initiated and started for liquidation prior to the resolution of 215, the provision proposed by the government at the time and brought the workers to a second degree, continue for these cases workers to be entitled to the front line. That's what one arrangement says. The other one says: 'If you have made a political decision that normality must be restored, the workers must come to the fore'. Mr President, I am tabling the documents I have before you. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We shall see the rest of the amendments in second place and after the Ministers have come to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr Athanasios Ljupis from the New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, which gives rise to a number of issues. The draft law contains a codified procedure of the Court of Auditors, which has so far been dispersed in various legislative texts. It thus becomes more direct and accessible to both the legal world and the lawmaker. Apart from codification, it also contains new provisions which improve and facilitate procedures before the Court of Auditors. The provisions which stand out are, of course, Article 89, which defines the rapporteur as Judge of the case. Its role is to ensure the completeness of the administrative file and to draw up a report with the history of the dispute. The Judge-Rapporteur is requested by the competent authorities to send him the documents and information which he considers useful, while the authorities to which he is addressed are required to inform him within 30 days. The Judge-Rapporteur is therefore responsible for preparing the case file, so that any gaps may be directly covered in order to avoid postponement of the case. The bill also contains other arrangements aimed at giving justice as quickly as possible. The President of the Court shall classify the pending cases and, where there is a decision in plenary or a case-law of a Chamber, adopt a case-law. Cases which are obviously unacceptable or unfounded, or which are obviously well founded, are brought to a council rather than to a audience. The boards will also decide on reasons for suspension in order to reduce the volume of cases in the audience. Reorganisation of the Court of Auditors' departments is another important initiative in the bill. In Article 339 there is a more balanced distribution of matter in the seven sections, achieving the decongestion of the overweight parts. Article 360 provides for the establishment of special sections on the basis of the subject matter and the number of disputes. One of the most important changes in the bill is in Article 358 with the establishment of a collection and processing Office for Judiciary Statistics. It is necessary to improve the process of judiciary awarding justice that there is a good picture of the functioning of all the courts in the country, but also of the methods of extrajudicial dispute resolution. This is happening for the first time. A tool for recording statistics on all procedures is created to identify where the delays are and to make targeted interventions. The general measures taken at times to speed up justice have very little been effective, precisely because they did not find the core of the problem. Now the Ministry of Justice will have all the data at its disposal and will be able to adapt the organization of the courts, as well as the number of human resources according to real needs. Article 359 introduces another step forward in relation to the civil courts this time. Special sections on disputes relating to the law of electronic communications, energy and the protection of personal data can be established in Athens and Thessaloniki. Finally, the main focus of this bill is the dissemination of electronic means. Provision is made for the submission of documents by electronic signature, Article 55, electronic performance, Article 67, even by use of technology, Article 17. Judicial proceedings are made simpler and quicker, without absolutely any discount on the rights of the citizen and, above all, on his right to judicial protection. But the speed is being strengthened to the benefit of both citizens and investment, which is a central objective for the government. As we all know, its justice and its relationship with executive power have been at the heart of the past few days. There is no doubt that the draft law is opening up new roads to a faster and more modern judicial system. However, it does not mean a democratic state without genuinely independent, unaffected and strong justice. As we legislate here, there will be no gaps in content unless we have independent judges who apply the letter and the spirit of the law in the light of their conscience alone. We must all defend the independence of justice against any threat, because it is a threat to the core of democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u77	Thank you. Mrs Sultana Eleftheriadou from SYRIZA now has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me start by saying a great many years in my city of Kavala which is celebrating twice: it celebrates the hundredth anniversary of its liberation from the Bulgarians, but it also celebrates the patron of Apostle Paul. I would like to remind you that Mr Mitsotakis visited our city this day and dared to forgave her history by saying that Kavala was freed from the Turkish yoke and not from the Bulgarians. Unfortunately, however, the memory of the Cavaliers is both historical and political, and apart from remembering that, how uncircumcised he was found to be, he will remember the lies he told to save them last year. Also, they remember what the New Democracy Government has done a year ago, what it has not done from its election commitments and what it is doing now, in recent days, to hide under its carpet the dispersion of public money, the scandals of the past and of the present and its responsibilities for the country's economic collapse. The people have realised that you have a lot of trouble and that's why you're trying to divert. Since you have failed to prove that the scandal is SYRIZA's building, after you have been irreversibly exposed to the US government's compromise with the "NOVARTIS" company, now you are trying to prove that the scandal is not political, but is medical. But the scandal is political, clear. It concerns the years 2012-2015, it concerns the three Ministers for Health, Mr Loverdos, Mr Georgiadis and Mr Voridis, and it concerns the definition of a policy on the medicine to win "NOVARTIS" billions at the expense of the Greek government and the overpricing of medicines. These two are not doctors' decisions and are not the result of doctors' actions. They are political decisions and these should be given responsibility to health ministers who have been in the years 2012-2015. So in your attempt to hide all of this, you commit criminal offences, completely benefiting the institutions, politicians and judiciary. And here I would like to come to your speech the previous day, Minister, and to the censorship you tried to make to your colleague. Why don't you answer? You're a Minister of Justice. Answer clearly: Are you in favour of using illegal recordings? Not specific, in general. Are you in favour of committing the offence of illegal recording and being used by your MPs and your distinguished members and by your ministers in the media? First question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u79	Did you know that in your own governance?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u80	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u81	Minister, as regards what was happening in our own governance, the question is to ask the Minister of Justice about SYRIZA. I am a MP for a year, I am a lawyer, and I ask the Minister for Justice of the New Democracy. Are you in favour of illegal recordings, yes or no? So you have turned political life into a mole, a mole to which you and all the government MPs who follow the same tactics in local societies will eventually fall within. With regard to your final goal, what are you trying to do, even with the answer you gave before? You're trying to show - because this is the best you can achieve - that we're all the same, and that's why in the next elections the people keep you. So we're not all the same! We're different in everything! And the verdict of the Greek people will be heard and deafening. Because, unfortunately, there is only a limitation in the courts, there is no memory of the citizens. As far as the bill is concerned, you are now bringing a bill of three hundred and sixty-four articles, which you have tabled two days before the debate on the relevant committees begins and for which, in consultation, the citizens were not able to comment on an article, rather than by capital. Your good legislation has gone again, the law of Mr.Gerapeitridis once again has not been implemented and you are literally continuing at the last minute to surprise the Greek Parliament and especially the competent bodies who want to participate as they should in the consultation but also in the process. This bill was prepared by SYRIZA. This is a given and you accept it, by making the need for ambition, in your explanatory statement. SYRIZA has made a decisive contribution to improving the administration of justice and to speeding up it. He hired judges, hired judges, updated the Code of Civil Procedure, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Criminal Code, handed you the Code of the Statute of Justice and Court of Justice...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u82	Do you know when the last judges and judges were hired? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u83	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u84	Do you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u85	I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u86	In your dentistry, you can tell us the answer. You're a special minister. Mr. President, I'm interrupted!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u87	Minister, please very much!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u88	The Minister obviously does not respect the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u89	When I hear such things, I can't help it. You'll be briefed, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u90	You can censor your Members when you do not say a thousand congratulations to Mr Mitsotakis and the Minister responsible. Censorship to your MPs!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u91	Minister, please very much! My colleague, I'll give you more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u92	The dismay of the Minister is manifest today and he shows disrespect to the Members of this House who are speaking in opposition, and that is tragic and will be judged by the people. So SYRIZA really has a great work to do in the field of justice. I mentioned before updating the Code of Civil Procedure and updating the Criminal Code. We have given you today's bill, the Code of Judiciary and the Code of Judiciary and the Code of Judiciary and you must bring them directly to the Greek Parliament for vote. As far as today's bill is concerned, then, I repeat that 4/5 is the initiative of the SYRIZA government, and if we removed it from today's bill, it would have been a modest contribution of your own. I will refer only to Articles 359 next, which provide for the possibility of the courts to establish special sections to judge cases of a development nature. We also have our main reservations here. These are cases of disputes between individuals relating to Greek and European legislation on telecommunications, energy and personal data. We will vote'residents' in these articles because you do not determine how cases will be judged if they have a major development interest vis-à-vis others. For example, why should telecommunications differences be introduced into these specific sections rather than construction projects or labour differences between workers and large multinational companies? The establishment of the departments is about Athens and Thessaloniki. What does that mean? For us who are fighting lawyers it means that a number of parties will be transferred out of the chair with all the difficulties that this entails, there will be a risk that the parts of the cases will be 'drug' from the weight of the cases, there will be legal uncertainty and conflicting decisions, because the way in which you describe the case will be transferred to these sections is totally vague and not objectively determined. We will also vote'residents' because we have not understood how you will be serving these departments. You speak of judges specializing in these matters. But these objects are so special that there is no appropriate number of judges with the corresponding doctoral and postgraduate degrees. And you'll finally set up new chambers and leave them subordinated by the judges, or will you take judges from the other chambers of the courts which, instead of hiring, will we take them? Finally, because today's bill aims at the effective administration of justice, in accordance with its title, let us not forget that, in order to achieve this, we must not interfere with the executive, we must have judges independent, unaffected and anyone who, either politically ordinary or political or minister who speaks as a simple citizen, dares to threaten in any way the judicial function, private or public, must be brought to justice himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u93	Thank you. The floor has now been requested by the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Vassiliardos, for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will begin by the fact that the Greek Solution represents Greece's mediation class, workers, scientists and businessmen who want to live in a national sovereign country, with a free market and under conditions of real democracy, not in a German debt colony. On the contrary, the New Democracy represents domestic and foreign oligarchy, as well as extreme neoliberalism in conditions of state authoritarianism, as is clearly seen by the final state that has launched. However, SYRIZA does not represent anyone, if not political corruption and complexity on the basis of the latest events. So we have huge differences, among other things in the economy, where we are in favour of the mixed type of public-private enterprises belonging to the public sector, while all the others in the private sector have often pointed out the dangers of privatization, such as the water issue. We must note here that millions of Americans are unable to pay up the increased 80% of the water bills to private individuals, so that their supply of water is stopped and their homes are lost, as we will be tabling later in the Minutes. As far as the rest is concerned, we are totally opposed to the uncontrolled globalisation that has led to the poverty of the middle class and the national state. While we believe in the European Union, since all the states of Europe must cooperate with each other, especially in the face of threats from other regions of the world, we are against its German version. We believe that the conquest of our continent by the German industrial elite, with economic weapons this time and the first victim of Greece, is being promoted. In this respect, the best solution is to prosecute Germany from the European Union and from the euro area as long as there is still time. In relation to today's bill, as regards the role of the Court of Auditors in the State Report on the State Account and Balance Sheet in Article 344, what we have seen since the 2017 Report, which we have been given in 2019, is: No valuation for the transfer of public assets to the supreme creditors, while there is not even a register of fixed assets. It should be noted that when such serious observations are expressed on the balance sheets of companies from their own audit mechanisms, by the accountants, i.e., serious actions are taken. It is therefore incomprehensible that the state administration is not accountable. In simple terms, we do not know what we have and what we handed over foreigners with the superstition, so our governments are literally criminalising our children. Although lenders seem to know very well what they're getting. As far as the State's balance sheet is concerned, the situation is even more disappointing, since almost nothing is right. For example, the NSA, the NSA and ELVO appear at zero value in the State's Balance Sheet, the State's participation in the EEAS is estimated at only EUR 388 million, while in the EEAS at EUR 85 million on 31-12-2018, in the "Eleftherios Venizelos" at EUR 417 million and so on. So how will the S.H.E. be able to do so in the future? judge their sales contracts when assessed with these degrading prices? On what criterion? Let us not forget the low price of the extension of "Eleftherios Venizelos" before Europe, Dg Comp, which Mr Georgiadis had then described as a special court case, as we will testify in the Minutes. Another issue in the state balance sheet is the requirements of previous years to the state funds, which were registered with EUR 95 billion on 31-12-2018, despite the fact that only a small part of them are considered to be collectable. However, the final result of the malicious state balance - incredibly malicious - is that Greece has a negative net position, minus EUR 217 billion in 2018. This means that if the state were a business, it would have to be closed immediately, while those responsible would have to account to the citizens for their incredible mismanagement. We must note here for those who do not have the same knowledge that the negative net position of our state in its balance sheet is not just a accounting display. In other words, it is not just on paper, since it suggests that the state will owe EUR 217 billion, even if it sells what it has and does not have the prices it refers to. In other words, there will be a debt balance of EUR 217 billion when Greece sells everything. So it seems clearly the failure of the political system, for which no one takes responsibility, and no one is ashamed. In addition, the Court of Auditors' powers also fall under the control of the award of pensions, in accordance with Article 98 of the Constitution, but also under many other articles here, such as 111, 116 etc., as well as a report when drawing up insurance laws. In the recent Brutsi law, which has come to correct previous injustices and unconstitutionalities, the Commissioner of State, Mr Nikitakis, pointed out new potential anti-constitutionalities - as we will be tabling in the Minutes - which did not seem to concern anyone in discussing the law, which was finally passed, and now we are waiting to see whether there will be any appeals. We also note the polynomialism of insurance, as has been pointed out in the 'International' study, No 11/2017, which does not help the administrative control at all. In any case, at the level of redress for pensions, as has already been pointed out, there are great delays, effectively leading to vetoing. According to reports, more than thirty thousand cases are pending in the Court of Auditors, with an average of three years' trial, and fines have been imposed by the Council of Europe for delays. It is a disgrace, therefore, because this is a very sensitive area, because it concerns people who have not many years to live and who have been unjustly waiting for them, and as a result they are being burdened both biologically and psychologically. They are also driven to despair acts, recalling Dimitris Christola's suicide case, which we will testify to in the Minutes. This does not, of course, concern the government as long as the service of business interests, as established by Article 359 of the current draft law, which creates special fast track sections for investors in telecommunications, energy and personal data. Scandinavian, of course, if you think that we have the most expensive telecommunications in Europe, according to the Competition Committee, and we will also be tabling it in the Minutes. It does not concern the government or the fact that there will be speculation from personal data from a market of EUR 3.2 billion, which the former Secretary-General of BSE and now the State Secretary-General has called 'the oil of the future', although they will be sold at just 50 cents a kilo, as we will present in the Minutes. A post-track democracy is therefore being launched for the domestic and international oligarchy supported by the government, with society plunged into the recession, with energy understrength on the ghetto, judging by the abolition of lignite almost fifteen years before Germany and the subsidisation of German electric cars, the growing dependence on imports, the conversion of the Greeks into the wardrobe of the Germans and so on. To close, especially with regard to the Court of Auditors, the bill does not solve problems, but in fact further downgrades its role. We hope, of course, that this will be another case for the government and not for feasibility, which will be reflected in the remedial amendments which must be followed. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Villardos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, too. Mr. Emmanuel Synthrakis, from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. I won't talk about the bill itself. After all, our rapporteur was particularly detailed about the substance, content and position of the Communist Party of Greece. However, let me turn to the appalling and dangerous amendment made by the Ministry of Sport, which, by a simple amendment of the law replaces the word 'final' with the word 'extraordinary', so simple, not by the 'Window', from the 'door', from the Minister of Justice, who has been sentenced to the first and second degrees for a felony. Why? To be commanded - he says - in the field of sport. What remains is Mr Augorakis, the Government, Mr Tsiaras, who signs the bill, to share the photos of all those who benefit from this amendment with us. It is truly sad, which shows that commercial sport does not have a “patient”. Furthermore, it abolishes this amendment, which prevented sports companies from participating in the administrations of sports federations and the boards of clubs. It also allows the participation of old athletes in the administrations of the federations. With one, that is, a photographic amendment, too many targets. These are disastrous provisions and this amendment must be withdrawn here and now. It is the epitome of the legitimised illegality of manipulation of racing, interoperability and opacity. Mr Augias is in vain trying to convince that this unacceptable and suspicious amendment, with the signature of the Minister of Justice, is, as he says, aimed at order and transparency in Greek sport. Now, shall we laugh? Should we take them to "cranium"? What do we have to do? In fact, it was the courage - because this is what this is about - to invoke the McColin Convention on the manipulation of sports games, which was voted for by all the other parties. The JRC had voted 'at present' and, indeed, we said at the time, that the contract has provisions which, while including aspects to combat the manipulation of matches and violence, are certainly not going to be implemented, because it contradicts the very nature of commercial sport and the other provisions at the time of the draft law, which are based on competition between sports limited companies for more economic benefits and profit. First of all, Mr Aegorakis and the Government of New Democracy, with this amendment, denounces this convention by legalising the manipulation of the games, the sepsis and immunity. It is a link in the chain that strengthens legislative and institutional support for business interests in the field of sport. After all, it proved so by abolishing the self-employed sport clubs and federations. It will, of course, be bad for our people from this story, the thousands of young and young, parents, coaches, sports actors, whose right to physical education and sport, their involvement with sport will be hampered in the face of the thirst of profits. Will someone say: 'But corruption, 'parament', manipulation, bets, graceful arrangements in the UAAs, tax exemptions, billions that flow are something new as a phenomenon?' Not only is it not new, but never any government, neither the SYRIZA's formers nor PASOK's nor the common governments among you have ever sought to deal with them. No sport law has prevented business activity, nor has amateur sport ever been strengthened. So this amendment comes as a follow-up to sports laws, in order to further strengthen the commercialisation of Greek sport. This is his future and the model that passes on to our people and especially to the new generation. "Hear-hand" sponsors, companies, suspects and all of them in charge of Greek sport. It is hypocrisy, therefore, for those who have the knife and the melon of governance to speak today of manipulation of games and corruption in sport, particularly in football and in other sports, such as motor sports, when not only remains the legislative framework that legalises them, but they shield it every time with multiple sport laws. This unprecedented photographic amendment, with the legalisation of court cases, the favor of friends and willing men, and all together, one aim is to serve sport - commodity and glorious business plans. It is also linked directly to the creation of the sports register, with the suffocating date for registration of clubs, a register which is necessary, but which is stitched and sewn to facilitate, firstly, the full government and party control of sports federations and, secondly, access to it by sponsors and sponsors, as Mr Augias has said, to take advantage of business as well as amateur sport, to gain full control of associations, members' register, academies, tickets, whatever financial and any infrastructure they have, as is the case in professional sport, and, of course, to promote their sponsorship programmes, by exploiting tolerance, from the low state funding of sports clubs and the lack of infrastructure. In fact, in the form of threats, the Minister states that those sports clubs that have not completed the registration or pre-registration in the notorious register will not receive state funding. So here's how it turns out, because the government is currently bringing in the obscure amendment, everything is costly and subject to the single central strategy for sport - business, abolishing the self-employed, restrictions on the election of representatives of sports federations, age limits, attempting to intervene directly in their administrative affairs. We are therefore returning this amendment to you, Mr Minister, as unacceptable. They are condemned by the overwhelming majority of the healthy sport world, as are the methods for the record. Finally, Mr President, let me turn to the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Infrastructure, with which we are vertically opposed, precisely because it is unacceptable and we ask you to withdraw it. In particular, I will place myself on Article 2 of the amendment, which concerns the abolition of the technical services of public works, the well-known EEAS, four technical services throughout Greece, and you did not even call on the workers in consultation, which you have a god to consult, but you have totally deceived them. You are therefore abolishing these four services, with responsibility for major infrastructure projects, on the grounds that they are faced with serious malfunctions due to subsidization. And who submissived them? Was that the final target too? Their subsistence and degradation are a conscious choice of governments to mature what you are doing with this amendment. The aim is to privatise the public sector, to sell large infrastructure projects to business interests and to design them on the basis of private economic criteria. And that smells like a lot of scandals. It is enough to ensure the competitiveness and profitability of the groups. The Government strengthens and upgrades the "Organization for the Development of Crete Anonymous Company", as indicated in the explanatory statement. It transfers to a private body any powers left in the state, financing, construction, management of major projects in the Region of Crete, in order to serve more flexiblely the big capital. Since 2013, the JRC has opposed the creation of this organisation, because this brings private investors closer together, bringing development tools closer to direct control of the capital. Large works will be commissioned by concise and opaque procedures to construction groups, no one will oversee or any supervision that exists will be for the eyes of the world. This is how the scandals are born, which are the main component of capitalism, which you serve. This will therefore have a tragic impact on the working and wage rights of workers in the EESC, especially on Crete and Dodecanese. Therefore, instead of recruiting permanent staff for their service, they are abolished, and for all three of them, they are provided for their integration into others, while the responsibilities of the EEAC Crete and Dodecanese are conferred on the "OCC Anonymous Company" and its employees, civil servants, are seconded for two years to the public limited company. It is a real mercenary because it does not guarantee either organic jobs or labour and wage rights. It remains uncertain what will happen to the end of this two-year period. The Government extracts them from the ‘ESC SA’ to fly them later on on the road, as is, of course, the reference to the maintenance of labour and wage rights, subject to the conditions of payment. It's a joke! It will be of great interest to tell us what these conditions are, to know them. In conclusion, the JRC is opposed to this amendment, it requires its withdrawal and at the same time demands that all legislations promoting the transfer of public services competences to public limited companies should be abolished. Secondly, it requires that the public services that will exercise these powers alone, which you are going to give to public limited companies, should be strengthened. Thirdly, it requires the self-evident safeguarding of the labour, wages and insurance rights of the staff of today's agencies and services.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u97	The Minister has asked for the floor so that then the parliamentary representatives will also be able to speak and then Mr Athanasios Zebbles follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that on the last day of the draft bill, with the exhaustive debate that has taken place before, we all know what the landscape is. I have to repeat some self-evident assumptions to demarcate the area of our debate, but of course I have the opportunity and immediately thereafter to give some answers to colleagues who have, in their own way, expressed some opinions, a little earlier here, in this step. I have said, and I say it for once, that the main part, the main corpus of this bill - you said so, Mr Xanthopoulou - is the Court of Auditors' procedure. The Court of Auditors' case has not been established by the Ministry of Justice, and I want all colleagues to understand that. It is the product of a very serious, very thorough, very persistent one, I would say, an effort made by the Court of Auditors itself, with a legislative committee, which starts at the time of the previous government, in 2018, with conclusions that are incorporated into the final draft, which we are now voting on, and with the total acceptance of the Court of Auditors' plenary. We have not suddenly discovered any of the provisions of the Court of Auditors' Rules of Procedure. As a result, all the provisions proposed in the plenary session of the National Representation, in fact, are provisions which have come through a, if you like, over time and through a maturity which shows us that we need to move forward in the next day and we need to develop the functionality and functioning of the Court of Auditors. This is not about, I repeat, any invention of any policy, but on the contrary it is about an internal procedure, which shows that the Court of Auditors must take the next step. There is a debate about how much the sums for which the checks should be carried out should be reduced. I will say it once again: there are no inexhaustible human resources. As a result, there is no possibility of reaching 'point zero' as well. On the other hand, I consider it positive - and I have put it as a question before you, Mr Xanthopoulou, Mr Janakopoulou, Mrs Giannakopoulou, Mr Kastanides - that we should keep the 5 million and we will do so by accepting a serious debate to be held. I have the assurance from the Court of Auditors and from the President that if for any reason the delay, which will mean a risk bet for the absorption of the NSRP resources, a special section will be set up - it is already fast-tracked - so that there is no such problem. But, from there on, we have to understand that when colleagues come here and express their objection to the pre-contractual control of DPRK, the Public Debt Management Agency, or maritime transport, this is a reality that has been in existence for decades. It's not a reality that can change. Really tell me, do you know why there's no pre-contractual control over maritime transport? Why should the inhabitants of the barren islands not stay without sea transport! Is that what you're ignoring? Do you know that when you come and say why don't we do that? It is of course a posteriori check, but how responsible it is for all of us to say that in the name of one - if you really want to carry out an inspection - will the wild islands perhaps be left out for a few months without public transport? It is a question which - you realise - goes beyond us. And it is a practice that obviously does not want to give any advantage to professional groups - to which you have referred - to shipowners or anyone else. It simply facilitates a reality which - I repeat - concerns the inhabitants of the small and remote islands. But you must also know that the preventive control which is not being carried out at this time - and of course it has stopped from previous governance - is done internally, that is to say it is the duty of each body to carry out control. For example, the Ministry of Justice is being checked - I say it simply to clarify things - not that there is no. Finally, we must say that the model proposed today in the Greek National Representation concerns a European reality. It was right to point out earlier - if I remember correctly by Mrs Giannakou - that it is the French model. We are supposed to follow good legal practice and roads and operate all levels of justice, so that there are no doubts or second thoughts to the average Greek citizen. I would like to thank the parties and the rapporteurs, because despite the disagreements, the debate that is still taking place in the Ministry of Justice's drafts, I think it is moving to a level of moderateness and seriousness that I think we all need. I appreciate it, despite the fact that some here have come and told me that no changes or modifications to the text of the proposed law are recommended by the New Democracy Members. They're obviously not watching the conversation. Mr Kyranakis has proposed two - three specific changes, half of which have been adopted. So let us not make such criticisms, which often reduces all this effort - I repeat - especially the bills of the Ministry of Justice. From there on, I still say the same thing. The statistics department at the Ministry of Justice is not claiming to solve the problems. Some Members have come and said that you will not solve the problems. But do we need the tool earlier to solve the problems? This is not a solution. This is the tool that will lead us to step forward - step by step and with a very specific effort to resolve the specific problem that exists, such as delaying the administration of justice, the fact that some judicial formations may need to be adjusted or reorganised and, of course, that when we have a specific material in our hands, a printing, a roadmap of reality, we can make any decisions on change and reforms. A number of practical recollections have been made with regard to what has been said in recent years, especially in the context of the pre-review committee. I personally know that I have tried and made a great effort to keep the area of justice and, in particular, the Ministry of Justice away from what is happening in the relevant parliamentary committee. We have to understand once again that it is Parliament's role and that of the executive. When we are able to adopt this in our practice, in our lives and, of course, in everything that concerns our role and our presence at the level of the Greek Parliament, we will have taken a serious step forward in recovering the credibility of the political system towards the Greek society. If I have to make a reasonable criticism or comparison with what has happened in the past, ladies and gentlemen, I will assure you that not only do I have an unlimited number of arguments and real data, but we will lead the debate somewhere else and we will challenge the democratic process itself. Obviously, the Step of the House is a free step so that one can express himself freely and, of course, say a thought of it, but this thought must remain in the realities and not in what one imagines or believes without being sufficiently informed. I am saying this because I heard a colleague from Stepa earlier tell me that I have to express my opinion as to whether illegally acquired evidence belongs to my own jurisdiction and what I have to do. So I call on her to read the story and if she does not know it, to ask the oldest colleagues. On 24 December 2005 the then Deputy Minister tabled an amendment which legalises illegally acquired means of proof. Don't put the terms in any logical judgment, it's just to use them. Oh the miracle in June 2019, the Minister himself withdraws this amendment! How does this thing happen to be combined with the time that a government actually starts its term of office and ends with the time that the government itself ends its term of office? How does moral stand, tell me to understand. So when we start our term of office, the illegally - I am sorry to go into this debate, I have been provoked and I do - acquired means are good for us to use them. When we finish our term, we must not use them! What morality does that stand in? Tell me. What morality, colleague? Tell me, answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u99	You're the Minister, tell us your point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u100	I try not to get into this debate and repeat that I am doing so personally. Tell me what morals that stand and justify it. In addition, I want to tell you one more thing. I will never make any sense of judging the procedural procedures and what independent justice will decide. This is the task of independent justice. Others are the ones who prejudiced and in advance announced decisions and created data and in any case a more general climate. That's not what I'm gonna do. I've never done this since the first moment I've been in this role. I assure you that as long as I'm in this role, I'll never do it. But the question is that, or we must all take this brave step together and leave behind a practice that proved to work negatively in the field of Greek justice, affected its credibility, created a huge issue both in society and in the political system, or if you want to go back, we can do it in other terms and with completely different practices. With regard to some aspects of when the courts have filled up with judges and judges, I will tell you that things are very specific, very specific. You know that practically in 2015, 2017, 2018, sixty-seven judges were indeed recruited in total at different times with different substantive legislative initiatives. We have already given sixty-five places in months to have a view of what is going on. Do you know that for the 2017 competition - if I remember correctly - the 1K was not hired until today, even 50% of the posts that were announced? Do you know that I'm trying personally to make a terrible effort so that this year we might also end up with a number of about three hundred and fifty judges, since actually the previous recruitment took place in 2009? To know what the reality is. And what I'm saying to you, I'm not telling you that at the hole in my speech or because I suddenly discovered it. You can ask them, I can give you specific information about what has happened over the past period and what is happening today. The reason why I may have reacted in a way that I am not used to is because, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, when you come to the Step of the House, at least ask about the facts. It is very easy for each of us to quote the reality he wishes or imagines or would like. The reality, however, is one at a time and does not change. The reality is based on what is happening, not what we assumed or would have happened or would have liked to happen from now on. So the effort being made - and I would like to assure you that it is continuing this period from the Ministry of Justice - is to create the largest and best possible place of consensus in the debate on all the bills. That is why I would really like to thank both the political style of the presence and - if you would like - the submission of arguments by all the rapporteurs, Mr Kyranakis, Mr Xanthopoulou, Mrs Konnakou, Mrs Giannakopoulou, Mrs Bakada, Mr Heta, no matter whether some have agreed or have disagreed, what I hold is that almost all of my colleagues have even spoken of positive arrangements within the bill. This is what I consider to be a conquest, not of my own, of the government or of the Ministry of Justice, but a conquest of the Greek Parliament at a really difficult time, which is being tested, many are in doubt and, of course, create a huge space for discussion and confrontation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u101	And we thank the Minister. Mr Zebblelis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it really impresses the fact that this draft law is being consolidated and modernised by the Court of Auditors' procedure a hundred and eighty-seven years after its establishment. In this case, the targeted codification of the scattered procedural provisions is achieved by reducing the regulatory volume, simplifying the procedure and the economy of the proceedings. In this sense, the procedural part of the present is not a technical issue, but, above all, a political one, as it deals with the tragic consequences of the malpractice produced by malpractice, since the great legislative volume from one point and beyond gives rise to ambiguities and divisions. In the end, there is a need for new laws and controversies to be lifted. the vicious circle inflicts legal uncertainty and a lack of legitimate expectations. Furthermore, increased legislative production is a burden on the work of justice and in this case the Court of Auditors, but it also strengthens the phenomena of bureaucracy. It's what we're saying, that the bad legislator bears the bad bureaucrat. Of course, bureaucracy contaminates justice with its known pathogens. So we have the only privilege of having eight Vice-Presidents of the Court of Auditors and ten posts in Arable Ice and Council of State, when in the rest of Europe the corresponding posts are from one to three or not. Analogous to the promotion of judicial officers, while this is laid down in legislation with an absolute election, in fact the only criterion is antiquity, which cultivates a morbid public mentality. This mentalite, which does not reward the diligent and worthy judge, is largely responsible for the sufferings of our judiciary and the delays that sometimes touch the limits of veto. It is indicative that due to the delay in the adoption of the Court of Auditors' decisions, our country has been condemned by the European Court of Justice for violating Article 3 of the ECHR for degrading treatment, because the achievements you referred to in justice in the previous period are the fact that Greece has most of the sentences for violating Article 3 for degrading treatment and Article 6 for access to a fair trial. And that is, of course, something that discredits our image abroad unjustly, because Greece is a democratic country, a rule of law with a long institutional tradition. It is important, therefore, that, in the process of provisional regulation under Article 104 of this Treaty, this unjust image is alleviated for our country, but many pension cases of our afflicted fellow people are also settled. In addition to its cross-cutting decisions, the Court of Auditors, with its controls on general governance bodies, also affects the general budgetary priorities. It is absolutely legitimate that the legislative body, which is responsible for monitoring the financial situation, can cooperate with the Court of Auditors in carrying out targeted audits, in its annual programming and in order to achieve a greater public interest. Because this has also been heard, the distinction of powers is not at risk from such legislative initiatives, which in fact introduce advanced practices from European judicial systems. On the other hand, the independence of justice is at risk of statusal behaviour. It is at risk from the action of outlawing circuits that have sought the spiral of political opponents and their families. It is at risk of ruthless para-state mechanisms and para-centric power that melt down the state's desolation and control of the critical joints of power. It is at stake by a group and dealer who have adopted personal agendas to settle financial interests. Here we have to agree that justice, which has endured this institutional attack, must itself deal with this difficult situation in order to stop poisoning the public life of the country at a time when we face very serious challenges. So on the inside, after the successful management of the health crisis, the economy must recover and society must stand up. There is no doubt that the transparent and effective absorption of European funds that are expected to exceed EUR 50 billion will be a unique opportunity for economic convergence and modernisation of the country. That is why more than ever we need bold structural changes in the institutions of the economy, energy policy, public administration and justice. In particular, reform in the field of justice, in order to be targeted and documented, should be based on a scientific analysis of judicial data and, indeed, on a self-service, as rightly provided for in this legislation. It is clear, therefore, that in the era of globalisation and the liberalisation of trade, the country should ensure that quality justice is given for the rapid resolution of private disputes. Besides, the principles of legality, legal certainty and legitimate confidence are the obvious preconditions for attracting private investment. To this end, it is of particular importance that the possibility set up by this draft law for the establishment of special judicial steps and formations, for disputes crucial to the economic development of the country, which will be managed by qualified judges of increased qualifications. To conclude - and to conclude as I have started - I would like to point out that good luck has brought with this present quality of law and the type of draft law, for which I would like to congratulate the Minister, a new legislative procedure in the framework of the final state, which ensures the principle of good lawmaking, and aims to address the structural weaknesses of pluralism and evil, by creating a modern institutional culture in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, too. I call to Stepma the SYRIZA MP, Mr Christos Giannoulis for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President, Minister, I would like to remind you, with great respect, that there cannot be political bipolarism in the Parliamentary Republic, that is to say, you must question the Members of the SYRIZA, because they are concerned with the current situation, but the Members of the New Democracy enjoy their immunity when they refer to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u105	I didn't say that, Mr. Yannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u106	Also, because I am following you as an old parliamentary representative in the previous parliamentary term, you have experience, you have respect for the Members of this House, but before you go into any kind of kind of kinds of kinds of kind if we should or should not be using any arguments, in particular on the status of young Members, I would like to remind you that we are new Members, we are not small citizens, immature professionals or citizens without experience and knowledge of the Members of Parliament. Of course, I would ask you to have the same strictness and degenerative parliamentary procedures. I would like to remind you of Mr Brutsi's last amendment. It was appalling for your colleagues in the New Democracy in the summer, when within a few seconds he released redundancies, when almost a vote was completed by the House. I would remind you of the fact that we are changing law, because we cannot change the man, who without being typically qualified, we have put PPC commander. I would also like to remind you of the acts of legislation which, with the pound, come to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u107	You can't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u108	Good, to withdraw the hard words 'with the pound', but in any case in a disproportionate number, with a normality that you defend. And one last thing. I am very anxious to see what this amendment is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u109	She's coming to support her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u110	Because the good legalisation of independent amendments to specific bills, which you defend as authentic and good legislature, is once again contradictory. We wait anxiously. You are the Minister who signs this bill, you do not know the content of the Augenaki amendment, we expect it to be 'kinder surprise', and that is good parliamentary practice! Minister, you know what? I am very concerned about the concept of justice as a value, not only as a technical process. And since a short time ago you also went to press on a political controversy with the recruitment issue and because the evidence remains, I would like to inform you that this poor SYRIZA government, accused of all the sufferings of this country that went bankrupt in 2009, with the 1K, 2K, 8K of 2017, refers to some seven hundred judiciaries hired. Three hundred fifty are from the activation of the 1998 AACC notice. A shame on the Greek public administration, people qualified since 1998 who were vindicated by the SYRIZA government. They weren't farm guards, they were very important public officials. Also, hundreds of fifty as fixed - term private law, contractors. And finally, the OAED programme is about four hundred fifty judges. If you add it, you'll see that it's undone...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u111	I replied to the Ministry of Justice mentioned by my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u112	Why are the courts in which they belong? The Department of Defense?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u113	Are you saying they've been hired?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u114	I don't say it, the public documents say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u115	You'll see now, I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u116	So I was telling you that the concept of justice for me and for our SYRIZA colleagues is very important, not as a technical process, but it is justice granted by the judiciary as well, but it is also provided by politics, by political staff to the citizens. Because the toxic rhetoric of the last few weeks and days, the toxic rhetoric, which is being transported by your fellow Members, results in the following schizophrenic contradictions. Minoan meets Poppa great scandal! Mionis meets Samaras, Mitaraki, Papastavrous and a businessman in 2013 based on the documents and testimonies of the Pre-inquiry for the Lagard list no scandal! Choose. The political leap, which is called Myonis, which is recorded, which has been a colloquium of almost all governments in recent times, when he meets the Pope, is a great scandal, but when he meets Samaras it is just daily. You have concluded - and this is a matter of justice, of moral value and the dimension of justice - in a preliminary investigation with a specified result. Is that what honors the Parliamentary Republic? You have condemned Mr. Papagelopoulos before the committee is finished. Of course, from this committee in seconds you can learn the sound between Mionis and Papapas, but you are too late to learn the three passages of Ms. Rykos for her husband, who is accused of causing damage of 1,7 million euros to the Greek public as a doctor. These turtle rhythms come out of pre-interrogative! You also confess to the credibility of Mr Angelis, who is also controlled. You're saying that Mrs. Toulupakis is in control. But Mr Angelis is also being checked for the same case, but we are not talking about this anywhere. You demolish the Prosecutor of Corruption, Ms. Toulupakis. However, she herself, when she filed the PANGAIA case with the 2.6 million in the Papastavrous account with the addressee Samaras, was a pure prosecutor, honest and impartial. Now Mrs Toulupakis is almost irony with the imprisonment for Mr Georgiadis to announce from 'ANT1', not even from a courtroom, to make an opposition to dress the judge! In this toxic delirium, of course, you refer to scandals and parastates. I really want you to point out, for the honesty and braveness of your speech, a case of all these glimpse of great scandals, which you are shocking, that you are shaking about what has been suffered by our democratic community, that is to say, a case where this paratrooper, based on all that you are discussing, has been favoured or been a money route. Because I can bring you a whole record, a movie book, whatever kind of sound you want, for scandals that have really stigmatized the Greek economy and the Greek society. And the biggest scandal, ladies and gentlemen, let us not hide is that in 2009 the country went bankrupt through a album, from a opacity pogrom in the management of public money. You forced the country, precisely because the scandal was your second nature. Not to mention "SIEMENS", stock exchange, etc. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need your tolerance for a while, Mr. President. In NOVARTIS, you must give a convincing answer. The 310 million granted to the US State on the basis of what unfair practices have arisen and through what 'NOVARTIS' profit process will be paid to the US State? Isn't that money at the expense of patients, funds and Greek citizens? In other words, you are suddenly indifferent to the fact that NOVARTIS gives it to America, we will now, after a year, begin procedures. For who? For Mrs. Ryku's husband, who is the main witness of the pre-examination - fiasco for Papagelopoulos? I can say a lot, but honestly you know, I feel bad, Minister, that we don't discuss the bill with the sanctity we need, but you are the main responsible. Why, while you have put with your dear expression in the "mushrooms" the moral automobile, the natural automobile of pre-review, Mr. Papagelopoulos, you do not have the guts to hit the supposed natural automobile, which is the former Prime Minister. Afraid. You're dreading, hiding behind rigged stories of wrongdoing husbands, because it's certain that you'll be ridiculed when you drive Mr. Papagelopoulos to the special court, much more if you dare realise your real goal Alexis Tsipras is. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that all that we are discussing, unfortunately your toxicity seriously harms society and the economy, because with all this you are trying to hide under the carpet your inability to protect citizens from the recession, unemployment and third bankruptcy in which you lead us with mathematical accuracy, the third bankruptcy that will be worse in intensity and economic sizes than that of 2009, '10, '11, '12 and '13. Your toxicity is seriously harming justice as well. Yes, Minister, you are due as a political person with such great experience to express an opinion. Can Adonis imprison Mrs Tulupaki and Georgiadis say 'I am not commenting'? Can I as Christos swear Mr. Janakopoulos and as Giannoulis say to him 'I respect you, Mr. Janakopoulos'? What's this? Where do you put these? What public sphere do we have to become Indians give them the mirror? This toxicity seriously harms democracy in the end. I would expect, Minister, even as a political person with the experience and respect you give to many of us, even if we are new Members, as you doubt us, that there was a view of you in public, political - it is a step by step, not just a legislative process - in the case of Georgia. I close by saying, if you give me poetic permission, because toxicity seriously harms democracy, that global literature, Thermandes in this particular case, has captured what Kyriakos Mitsotakis and Antonis Samaras now reminds us of. One in Don Quixote, a comedian and tragic hero at the same time, who thinks he is a knight and is not, and the second is Sancho Pancha, who tries to support Don Quixote, but actually undermines his work. Unfortunately, that's what you are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u117	I call on the New Democracy MP, Mr. Efstathios Constantinidis. Here, Mr. Constantinidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to confine myself to the drafting of the bill, but unfortunately I saw that colleagues who, not only did not refer to the provisions at all, but they did not even tell us if they voted for it or voted against it, that is, they did not take a position at the start of the bill. However, I did see them referring to issues which may be ignored in relation to the procedure, that is, the preliminary examination carried out by the committee responsible, without knowing - and that is for granted - the evidence put forward in the minds of this committee, to draw conclusions and to reach arbitrary crises. Unfortunately, people who have already been exempt from regular justice have not yet been judged by the competent bodies and have given them reproach for illegal acts. I will therefore avoid this challenge, but I will not avoid making reference to what they saw the light of publicity in the previous period, invoking precisely the cuts of the dialogues that demonstrate what had happened. "I will ask to bring Tulupaki herself," he allegedly said a political official, former Minister. "I will ask her to bring me the girl herself, I will say to her: Girl, do you understand what you're going to do?" "He has his own agenda, they make money, a lot of money. And that is what we can do as we have not seen." Make an outsourcing, but not a shop in shop, not a shop in our store. You can't, ladies and gentlemen of the Great Representation, make the honors of the rule of law. These issues must be decided first, and then you will move our hand. In the shadow of recent complaints about the action of para-state groups in the background of the previous coup d'état, to the echo of published dialogues between senior government officials in the same period testifying to fundamental democratic conquests such as this distinction of powers, at the expense of the revelations about the alleged existence of governmentists who applied autonomous powers and wealthy of them, it perhaps seems surrealistic to call on us today to vote for a bill that tends to speed up justice, to improve the terms of its award, to strengthen this top institution and its officials with modern instruments and tools. But today, as long as ever, it is necessary to shield and strengthen the institutions of justice in order to heal as quickly as possible the wounds that have left the body of Themida the events that have taken place in order to restore the sense of law in the consciousness of the citizens. It is therefore timely to discuss and to vote on this draft, since the above-mentioned objectives are, in particular, in the field of public law and the defence of the interests of the State, since its greater scope refers to the functioning of the Court of Auditors. A two-stage body with administrative and judicial powers to control public procurement and expenditure, to account against public accounting, but also to adjudicate on wages and pensions, as well as European aid cases. The individual provisions ensure the unification of the dash to date and make it easily accessible to citizens, civil servants and lawyers. Apart from the codified regulations for the Court of Auditors, however, the other provisions of the draft law, and in particular the provision of a service in the Ministry's establishment plan, which will be responsible for the recording of data from the functioning of the judiciary bodies, are of significant importance in order to enable the immediate determination of shortcomings and needs and thus to address them. In this respect, it was expressed that it might be sufficient to obtain data from other departments, such as ELSTAT. However, I think that the targeting of an internal service will be better and faster, as is the proposed one. A lot of discussion was also brought about with regard to the provision of Article 359 on the possibility of establishing sections to resolve disputes relating to the National and Union Law on electronic communications, energy and the protection of personal data in the political courts of Thessaloniki and Athens. In fact, in addition to any technical and operational reservations which have been expressed and which are, I think, excessive, it has been attempted to provide a part of the class mark for this arrangement in a way that is addressed on the basis of the prioritisation of some cases against others. But capitalism is not a crime, as it is alleged to conspire a major opposition official in a conversation that recently saw the light of publicity. Furthermore, it is obvious to non- dogmatics that the provision in question serves the specialization of judges and the speed in the administration of justice and through them the growth and creation of jobs in the country, i.e. society as a whole. Equally useful are the arrangements introduced by the amendments to be voted on, which resolve administrative organisational and operational loose ends. More specifically, I would like to make an amendment to the amendment allowing lawyers to issue attestations that will have a certificate of relocation of property and property claims, which would relieve the mortgages of a significant load of work, speed up the relevant procedures and facilitate citizens in the search for such information. There are indeed other procedures that could be executed by the law enforcement by exempting the administration from the burden in question and it would be good to look for them in cooperation with the legal associations of the country in order to adopt such arrangements. This draft law, like previous Law 4624/2019 on the protection of personal data, of Law 4637 of the same year on amendments to criminal codes, Law 4640/2019 on mediation and Law 4689/2020, which brought in important directives to the internal legal order, also obey the principles of good legal practice and, in particular, the rule of state continuity, thus strengthening legal certainty for officials and citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, today in the vote on this bill we are improving the conditions for the administration of justice in the country, while in our attitude in the coming days and in cases that afflict public life we are called upon to restore citizens' confidence in democratic functions and in the rule of law. Thank you very much for your attention!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr Constantinidis, for keeping time. I call on the Colleague of the Greek Solution, Mr Antony Mylonakis. Here, Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I was hoping that the Members of Parliament would be present at least at the plenary session. Once again, unfortunately, I see that ten, fifteen people are here today and the rest are playing MPs and doing well! It seems, Minister, that today we are discussing a bill codifying the diffuse laws and provisions of the Court of Auditors, particularly for the effective administration of justice. I wish that this bill would succeed, for which no one doubts that you and the partners have made a huge effort. The Greek Solution has some red lines for this bill, it has what our rapporteur, Mr Hetas, told you, but also our parliamentary representative, Vassilis Viliardos, has said. But what I cannot understand - and I say this sincerely, Minister - is whether the citizens taste the administration of justice. That is what is needed for all the politicians, because our job is to legislate on the substance. So, is there a matter? And I'm going to tell you two, three things that are constantly heard here. I am sorry that the Greek people are trapped between two urban parties, on the one hand in the New Democracy party and on the other hand in the SYRIZA party. Trapped, the Greek people hear what? That there are stores, I'd begging every time some government, a party gets the government. Yes, gentlemen of SYRIZA, there's a shop in Maximos! You don't know that? And today, and yesterday and yesterday and every day. And it will continue to exist. The first floor of Maximos, which is the Prime Minister's office, is the "magasy" and the upper floor, the second floor, is the "paramagasus", the outdated. Why, Mr. Giannoulis, are you first listening to this thing? Isn't that always possible? Also, Minister, what are we seeing in the last few years, making thousands of telephone conversations with the U.S.? What's that? One was talking to the other. Minister spoke with his wife and gave orders. Where did he give orders? Through the police and the prosecutor. In other words, we're talking about an unprecedented outrageous circuit. Really, isn't that something to worry about, gentlemen of SYRIZA? Minister, does anyone doubt that the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, which has become a construction for another reason, is a great scandal? No, of course not, Minister. Congratulations, because you know how much I appreciate you. You are one of the people I always say the best words about, because you are honest. It's not a construction, it's a scandal. But this scandal, who has been hit by it, Minister? The U.S. public. So it took the US public about 315m euros, why did it consult with NOVARTIS not to go to court, that is, an extrajudicial compromise, for why? Because all the complexity of corruption and the waste of money was Greek. The Greeks lost, the Greek people lost!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u121	We're moving the process too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u122	My Minister, please tell the microphone to be written in the Minutes. Move the process! The procedure should have been opened. It is your honour to say that you are moving the process for such a great scandal. I repeat that the process must be initiated immediately so that at least one euro can be plunged into the country. We've cut off the Greek! They took drugs 1, 2 or 3 euros and sold them 113, 143 and 1043 euros and the Greek people paid, Minister! So, then, we're talking about a scandal that took place, and on the other hand we have the scandal of the offense with Mioney. Who's the Mioney you made him, Minister, legend? Who? The Mioney! And one thinks that the serious state of Israel has Mionis for a long time and will make speeches for Mion! Nothing, it's all fun, Minister! You're kidding. All these businessmen are intertwined and corrupt, who are engaged with ministers. Why, gentlemen of SYRIZA, did this happen to Mr. Pappa? I was surprised. I wasn't expecting this thing from the Pope. Talking to Mioney, why? Didn't he get off the Lagard list to pay Mr. Mioney? Did the Greek state pay them? If he took it out on me, now I'd be in jail. Why did the Lagard list suddenly leave the scene? Did anyone pay?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u123	The Council of State ask!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u124	Yes, Mr. Janakopoulos, no one paid. Did anyone pay? A man.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u125	It's gone!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u126	Deleted, yes! Who is responsible for the limitation? Can you tell us? Am I responsible? Is the Greek solution responsible? Your governments aren't responsible? That's why I'm saying the Greek people are trapped between two parties. And he'll continue to be trapped if he doesn't change mentality if he doesn't mind. Because the Greek has to look at these. Today, I'm telling you, it's a pleasure to meet you. The newspaper “DIMMOCRATIA” writes: “In the details he won his own battle for feta.” This is the MEP of the Greek Solution, Mr Emmanuel Frangos! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] It forced the European Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, because this is what we have to do as MPs and as MEPs - the Icelandic company that used the name 'feta' to get it out of its logo. That's the truth! That's what we have to do! And, as he quite rightly said - and we thank him - many times also the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Lebanon, you have adopted too many positions and proposals of the Greek Solution. And congratulations on that, because you hear! Let me tell you another, Minister, which touched on me very much. I'll say it with heart pain. I didn't expect that. Yesterday I was invited to Loutraki and went to Mistrelli. I didn't know the people. I sat on a table - notice what I'll tell you right now - wait for people outside the sun at 14:00 at noon. The tables were all right, the world was fine. No problem. I was ahead and I saw them with my eyes. Because if I didn't see them with my eyes, I didn't even know the owners or anyone -- I'd say they're right. They suddenly go in - and I will tell Mr Bini, who is an honest man of the Transparency Authority - a pair of the Transparency Authority with two uniform police officers. They all froze. I'm asking what's going on. And they asked, Minister, to listen - hear the plan of the store, the squares, to see if the relevant means were based on squares. It was the only store, apparently, that worked, why the other shops were empty and it tells you "We're not finishing this? " Now you're listening to it all the time. They were, he says, twelve more people. He, he says, sixty-eight, and he had to have twelve less. Listen, 10,000 fine and fifteen days close the shop! Minister, this is the process, and I told both people. I told them what they're doing isn't serious. It's a good place. Nobody's next door to each other. And on the other hand, the SYRIZA - gentlemen of SYRIZA comes to notice it, because they are yours there -, who are assisted by SYRIZA of Constantine and calls on the Pakistani, the Congolese - and I don't know who else is here - and I don't know who else is here - the Afghans at a rally on Saturday afternoon with five hundred people - how many - and they were - and they were calling "We will deport Mitsotakis". What, isn't it, Minister? That's how you laugh. Are you laughing at this or should Constantine have been arrested, which urges foreigners to rise up? What are we laughing at? Gentlemen of SYRIZA, they are yours. They made an announcement. What are those things? "We will deport Mitsotakis" says the illegal immigrants, the poachers with Constantine of the ERCC. Who's the ERIC? Why this immunity? On the same day, Saturday night, fifty anarchists - I don't know what they are - barbies broke the shops in Ermos. Is that what you would change, gentlemen of the New Democracy, against SYRIZA? Minister, am I wrong? Didn't the stores break down? Who's gonna pay for the stores? Who? Same people. The Greek people vega. Half the work, half the money, and the other one goes and breaks his shop, and the other closes it for fifteen days. Is that our process? Congratulations! And we come here and legislate what? What? These things are unbelievable. What I would also like to say, unfortunately - and I will close - because my colleagues have said so very well about the bill, is that this wrongdoing has cost me four - five sues against me by the Minister of Defence at the time, which - and I am surprised, Minister - were all going to the police department for slandering. I don't know if you're using these divisions, the Civil Protection Department and the Extortion Department. Every time I was sued, I went to the Civil Protection Department. And when they came to arrest me - they thought they'd arrest me and chase me one night all over the "ART" - I was accused of jeopardizing the city from me. It's amazing. You will tell me "Come on, Mylonakis, and what happened?" Nothing happened for one thing, nothing happened for the other. Nothing happened. This is our dismay, and I am very, very sorry, honestly, that we are not all here to put them down, to legislate seriously, Minister, and to implement the law. To apply the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u127	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u128	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Minister, Mr. Chiaras wants to make some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Mr President. Very quickly I should like to reply to Mr Mylonakis that all we have heard may be about a real incident, which I imagine the competent services will check and know exactly what has happened and what has not been done. I would like to table a legislative improvement, which relates to the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Sport. It is made available to the House. The Secretary of Sport will be backed by the Secretary of Sports. I should like to tell you that the title of the bill with the addition of the amendments will also be added "and other provisions". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u131	I should now like to call the Member of Parliament from Mera25, Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou. Mrs. Adamopoulou, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we pointed out at the committee meeting, the draft law, once it is a codification of fragmented provisions, is in the right direction. However, since we have not seen any relevant amendments on the problem we have mentioned, it is worth repeating them. Article 309 It is still the cost of access to justice that is increased and, indeed, in cases which are the public opposition to the private, with the increase in offences, you are making it very difficult for the citizen to have access to justice, the citizen in a disadvantaged position vis-à-vis the public who is present free of charge. We now see that, by increasing offenders, the position of the individual is weakening even further. A characteristic case is the increase of infringements in positions on pension differences. There was no substantial justification on the part of the Ministry for increasing these costs as regards the fact that the burden on the individual is substantially passed on. It is a pretext for invoking the need to accelerate the administration of justice when you could have sought alternatives to speed up the award. You are therefore entitled to all of us who are talking about class justice for the few. In Article 343 you are promoting a provision which violates the principle of good legislature and also the principle of discrimination of powers, because you are, in fact, enabling the executive and, in particular, the government to indicate every time the annual audits to be carried out by the Court of Auditors. Even this addition that you have made, the correction that it can ask instead of order, does not mean that it brings about a substantial change. Because what is not guaranteed is whether, in the end, the Court of Auditors has the discretion to refuse to do so, the request made by the judiciary. Unfortunately, we are seeing regular unauthorised blocking of executive and judiciary in a country where the Union of Judges has recently been strong for attempting to manipulate the judiciary on the part of the executive. We are, of course, referring to the coup d'état which refuses to maintain the normal procedures for the election of the Bureau. We see that, in fact, a donor has been appointed, which unlawfully overturned the previous Bureau, which was set up in June 2018 in a legitimate way. A majority of the judges, 92% of the judges, have been refused a request for elections by a legal procedure, and their request has been expressed electronically. So we have a donor right now, the temporary administration, which actually perpetuates these practices. I am sure the argument that the previous government has done so is, in my personal assessment, at least childish. Because it is like depriving us of the responsibility we currently have as a government elected to perpetuate the pathogens, legitimise them, rather than try to remove them. With regard to Article 358 on the establishment of an Office for the Collection, Processing of Judicial Data, which will be a service directly under the Minister's office, the statistics are certainly very important tools to assess, evaluate situations and make relevant corrective interventions. However, our objections have to do with how this initiative is being promoted, because there is a problem of duplication of competence in relation to an already existing structure in the Ministry's establishment plan. And we're talking about the Department of Strategic Planning and Political Assessment. Also, there is no mention of the issues of staffing the new service. As the administrative judges themselves have told you, focusing explicitly on the cost of the procedure and quantifying the performance of each judicial unit, namely what is exported and imported, what is taking place in cases, what is being done by a judge, and what is being dealt with, is certainly a matter that has its own self-evidence, but does not complete the framework of the criteria which should govern justice. I am referring to your lack of mention in terms of quality and efficiency of justice. So you did not reply to what the Association of Judges has asked you about how statistical science can be exploited in order to combat polynomialism and dazzling legislation, how the bad practices of the administration that we often do not answer will be combated, how we combat the regularity of the public to deplete all the legal means, exhausting even more financially the citizen - it is what New Democracy's colleague'respecting taxpayer's money', not such practices - and, of course, how we plan through the statistics to achieve the legal response to the consistent case-law of the highest courts. Very important, serious, sliding is that you go under the newly established service that will process the statistical data directly into the Minister's office. It is a serious slip because it also leaves the shadows of manipulation of justice and its product by the executive. It is well known that all the Memorandum Governments have cooked the statistics in order to pave the way for the resolution of the memorandums. The so-called 'grek statistics' internationally we know that they have been identified is the synonym of unreliability. So we wonder why the space is being left to legalise such practices. It is much more correct that the new agency should be a decentralised department, an appendix essentially to ELSTAT and should be commissioned and accountable to ELSTAT itself and not directly to the Minister's office. As regards the specific parts of the courts in Articles 359 and 360, as the Union of Judges has once again pointed out, the need to establish new special chambers should result from an increase in cases. Such an increase in primary cases has not occurred in recent years. On the contrary, there is a significant reduction in the fact that this is the cost of accessing justice which makes access for citizens to justice dissuasive. The judges also considered that the introduction of a general and absolute prioritisation of certain cases should not be allowed, since procedurally there is already the possibility for the governor to apply for a preference. All these regulations create equality issues before justice, violate the principle of a natural judge and create a two-speed justice. Also, with arbitrary and vague criteria you distinguish between matters of development interest and the rest. And we ask ourselves: Where does it come from between similar assumptions that 'A' has development, while 'B' does not? Why, for example, are differences in private data from personal data rather than public projects? This is an example. In conclusion, we are seeing a bill, which, although moving in the right direction in certain provisions, is nonetheless in some of the other principles and values which are fundamental, which affect democracy, equality and the rule of law. These provisions do not stop putting a class mark at every opportunity. We could therefore have in front of us a piece of legislation which, yes, encoding and systemifying the Court of Auditors' procedural procedure, but in a productive way and not by provisions which are currently inviting us to place ourselves on the bad texts and to try to deal with bad attitudes that violate the principle of the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, too. He has asked for the floor, and I am giving him the floor, because the Rules of Procedure have said so to the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mr Clana Gregoriadis, for eight minutes. Mr Gregoriadis, you have the floor, because you also have a parliamentary obligation, immediately after the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing another bill of the Ministry of Justice. Minister, it is obvious, since we are voting for more than half of the articles that we do not find an extremely bad bill. He has his advantages. He's got good evidence. I'll stand here. The previous ones from the side of Mera25, our special speaker, Mrs Bakadama, but even more so our legality, Mrs Adamopoulou, told them with enough care and described our disagreements in detail. I'll be tempted to tell you a few. I am starting with what I think is the predominant issue. Mr Minister, we believe that this is a further class bill to be added to the class policy chosen by that government in the field of justice. Do not surprise you, ladies and gentlemen, and you, Minister, the term class politics. Because it is true that, otherwise, one can characterise the choices and practices of this government when it comes to this bill - and in particular Article 335-, the government makes up more than double increases in the paradoxes that citizens are forced to pay in order to apply to justice and to claim pension or salary rights. I will not go into each one. I've written it down. But I don't think that makes any sense. One thing I would say, however, is that in the case of appeals against debiting acts and appeals in cash, the citizen can actually pay 5,000 euros under certain conditions. And that's alarming. And it's not just alarming, it's something else. First of all, we must always remember that we are in the fourth memorandum and that the fifth is next. We think we'll clean up with SYRIZA's fourth memorial in 2060. It is clear that the fifth that you will vote on - which you have already voted on with the joint communiqué Stakouras, etc. last week - we'll probably go by 2100. Therefore, people really have no money for such expenses. In addition, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you are quite right to wonder what you really intend to do with salaries and pensions in the near future, so that it is absolutely essential for you to make group actions in the justice of wages and pensions completely available to the government, in order to claim their right to decent wages and pensions. You're probably preparing something that won't like the Greek people at all. In addition, in that draft law, the Government is to reduce the amount above which statutory control is to be carried out prior to the conclusion of a public contract financed either by national or Community resources. The work of the judiciary is further enacted by the executive. So I must say that the constitutional requirement for discrimination between powers is further perpetuated. We read in the explanatory memorandum to Rule 343: “The House will be able, when informing the President of the Court of Auditors of the annual control programme of the Court of Justice, to request that the audits planned be prioritised or to express interest in other checks on the subject of incomplete public management systems.” The provision in no way respects the principle of separation of powers, since it allows the government majority to effectively order the Court of Auditors at the request of the Court of Auditors. We are talking about a government majority and not about a strengthened consensus, precisely because nothing is said about this within this provision. And I ask you, Minister, directly: is the Parliament referred to in the order considered by the government a majority? Does that mean when the order says "the House"? Will the simple majority really suffice to control the Court of Auditors as a matter of priority or to start new checks on public management? If that is the case, do you not see, ladies and gentlemen, the risk of the Court of Auditors' political work from the governments concerned and the conversion of the judiciary into an executive micro-group, i.e. the government in question? You understand that times are wicked and we've heard a lot lately. There are various pre-reviews in progress, we hear things, we are appalled by what we hear. We're not judges. We refuse to take this role either of the judge or of the guilty party. We are politicians and our work is politically to judge what we hear and when we have a crystallined conclusion, we will judge it in a very sharp way. We always do. We're not avoiding it. But, indeed, times are lame for justice, and that one understands from the outside that one has to pass. He doesn't have to get in here. Now I will not avoid the temptation of my favorite questions to the government. Firstly, what about the primary surplus of 2021? I don't know if you heard. Last week Mr Stavros signed the Eurogroup's joint communiqué, which Eurogroup communiqué said - what else? - that "all right, this year was the coronary, it was difficult to find things and you'll have a primary deficit of 20%, 30%, 60%..." - I don't know how much we'll be able to have - "...but next year no more lies. Here I am and the leadership of the European Union will not have time - perhaps this year also has the so-called 'black' zero that is subtlely positive - 'You Greeks, who are you? You should have even a small primary surplus. So this is the primary surplus, because we are all here attending Jerusalem for many years and especially the last eleven memorials that you have brought, which all of you have brought, we know who they are paying and we know how. They always pay it, as you know better than I do, with wage cuts, pension cuts and tax increases. Prepare the Greek people slowly that they are coming from this time at the latest an increase in all their taxes, indirect taxes and direct taxes, and a reduction in their wages and pensions, because you will find them very bored I fear in front of you. What about HERAKLE? Do I need to ask? There's nothing going on. The government refuses to bring this famous act of legislation that will save the country from 12 billion, while a large part of the Greek people have already begun to starve. Also scandalous is that anyone responsible for answering us is refusing. You have been challenged by Mr Varoufakis, we have caused you all who speak from here to tell us that we are talking nonsense, tell us that they will not find a way for the predators to demand and be legally entitled to any favoured court on earth the 12 billion you have signed as guarantees. Tell us it won't happen. Tell us you're sure it won't happen. Tell us we're making a sterile opposition. You're not saying that. You know it's going to happen and it keeps hanging over us all the famous question why you don't. Trade unions hope you're not, but that your rightholders are being tied up, as I like to look like that, it's very obvious now, because it's not even the issue. I mean, no one's answering anything about it. Now what about the explosive development you expect - we expect no growth - of time? I would remind you that Greece's GDP in 2019 was 187,5 billion. This year, according to all the calculations, he'll be down to 160, at best, 164, 165. And I ask: if our country's GDP in 2021 is 166 and it was 165 this year, that is, if there is 1 billion more or half a billion more in 2021, will you consider that to be an explosive callous growth? Because I remind you it will be 18 billion less than 2019. From 2008, where you dragged this country into the terrifying adventure, an adventure that will probably be its final adventure, the successive memorials that never end because new memorials come with every pretext, all those who dragged it - were 50 billion more, not 50.85 billion more of our GDP. Then it was 245 billion of the country's GDP. It is therefore an extremely shrinking GDP. That's what we're saying. Greece doesn't make anything. This little shrimped shrimp again this year, because of the coronary and the time, perhaps, will you come here to triumph because it will have made such a rebound, will it have climbed 1 or 2 billion? You mustn't do that. It'll be extremely worrying. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will not be late, Mr President. Now what about the hospital "Papanikolaou". You know with Mr. Varoufakis I had the luck and the honor of representing the Mera25 last week in Thessaloniki and we went to the hospital "Papanikolaou". And I ask what is going on because that is where the doctors and, in particular, the department managers have informed us, not random doctors, people who are large and experienced in medicine, that from all the health and doctors at the "Panikolaos" Hospital at least 50% of them are at risk, they work safely. What does that mean? It means that they are subsidiary contract workers, meaning that a large part of them are rented doctors and health workers, rented workers and they are also various other things. Also, your heroes - I say scrupulously because your heroes, who were applauded by the ministers this morning and at night, have sprinkled them in the courtyard of "Evangelism" - have informed us that they have actually passed heroic days and weeks during the coronary, as they fought the coronary, as well as all other diseases that are facing the hospital, without even the appropriate masks. You know, the masks at the ICU aren't the masks we're wearing here. Some masks are more accurate and more appropriate. They didn't have them, and they didn't get them, they assured us throughout this four-month period. All this four-month period that you celebrated that, by the way of the coronary, you will shield health, these people at the "Panikolaos" ID didn't have masks that simple. Also, your natural therapists who work at the ICU informed us that they are not included in heavy and unhealthy. I've been among the heavy and unhealthy thirty-six years now that I'm an actor. Is it not that whoever's inside a coronary MD should rightfully be listed in there? I shall close immediately, Mr President, not to tire you. Finally, what about 'NOVARTIS'? I will tell you what is going on with NOVARTIS. We'll tell you, Mera25. In America, "NOVARTIS" pays $500 million, in Greece, "NOVARTIS" states he will not do it again. If you ask her, "never?" she will tell you that, yes, she will never do it again. I have heard the Minister - with hope I have to say interesting - that a procedure will be initiated. The question, Mr Minister, is why no procedure has been initiated so far. This scandal has been in court for years. Thank you very much for your tolerance and your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u135	And we thank Mr. Gregoriadis. Let's say a little bit about it. The two Ministers will be placed first by Mr.Austrias and then by Mr. Karamanlis and then immediately after that, the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr.Janakopoulou, and then, as requested, by the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Pafilis, will take the floor. Mr Aygeakis, you have the floor in order to develop the general number 374 and a specific 28 amendment. How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u136	Ten minutes I think it'll be enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u137	Not ten minutes. Ten minutes doesn't even take the minister with the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u138	All right, give me six minutes. I'll be quick.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u139	I'll give you six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a necessary reform in the context of the blockades of registration and restrictions on participation in sports clubs and associations. In other words, we put clear conditions on the way to raising new administrations in our country's sports federations, and we do so in good time so that all sports players can prepare themselves for their elections transparently, but above all with a view to making public all the rules of the game, to know in advance who has the hindrances, who is entitled to participate in the elections, and who is entitled to not. I am pleased to announce that tomorrow it will be discussed at the Ministerial Council in the next few days, the Bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sport entitled: "Reforming an institutional framework of the antiquities of the sporting bodies, distinguishing accompanies of athletes, setting up a national platform of sports integrity, Greek Olympic Committee, Greek Paralympic Committee and other provisions". We will discuss this more thoroughly in the next few months, so today I shall refer briefly to the main provisions of the draft law. With regard to antiquities, we regulate issues relating to the electoral procedures of sports federations, sports associations and sports clubs. After consulting all the sports actors, we implement the McColin Convention, the National Platform of Sport Integrity. With regard to distinguished athletes - accompanying HEIs, we recognise the crucial role of escorting athletes who are legally involved in the games of athletes with disabilities and provide for the reimbursement of benefits to distinguished athletes - accompanying HEIs. For the Hellenic Olympic Committee, we introduce amendments to the statutes of the EEEE in line with the demands of the EEEE itself, after its first period of operation as a legal entity under private law. We also regulate the issues of the representation of members in the administration of the Hellenic Paralympic Committee. Of course, these issues will be discussed in detail in the next few weeks both in the Committee on Forums and here in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u141	Then what are you doing with the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u142	Now, with regard to the amendment that we are debating today, Article 1 concerns blocks and restrictions. What do we change? In paragraph 1(b), in order that the person has now been referred back or sentenced irrevocably and not finally simply and, of course, the coin of the person received will last until the adoption of an acquittal decision, i.e. throughout the period, and in any case the coin will be retained contrary to the applicable provision to date. At the same time, we adjust the obstacles in the case of criminal offences in accordance with the new Criminal Code. Article 2 concerns obstacles and restrictions on participation in an institution of a sporting association. In other words, we facilitate the participation of people who are interested in participating, have experience and knowledge of the issues of the sporting union or federation. In particular, a candidate may be declared to be a member of the Board of Directors or of another institution of the sporting association who has been an sports association or federation, provided that at the time of his application he has elapsed at least one month before his resignation by an official of the association or at least two months if he is a federation official since the end of his employment relationship. At the same time it is possible to involve several candidates in this way by strengthening and strengthening democratic processes and, of course, administrative renewal. Of course, these time intervals follow the constitutional requirement put forward for the blockades of candidates. I hope that those who rushed to write or comment, before they were put back, read more carefully the provision that I mentioned just before. Ladies and gentlemen, as you have seen, there is no guidance, no service of interest, but above all no photographic provision. We are setting clear terms and transparently, but above all with integrity, so that everyone knows the rules of the game, but also those which are incompatible. At the same time, Heraklion, Crete, boils. The intention of the NGO, according to the public statements of Mr. Dede, Executive Secretary of the NGO, to withdraw the candidacy for organising the Global Stadium of the UEFA Final Conference League 2022 or 2023 has stirred up a storm of reactions and protests and exceptional displeasure of local society. The candidacy file of Heraklion in our country is complete, produced without a single cost, and the relevant UEFA evaluation committee sent in writing - recently, on 19 June - congratulations to the SGP and to the Municipality of Heraklion. The NCA and part of its administration are attempting to sabotage a national effort - if possible - and an honorary European finale. It is not only about the city of Heraklion or the county or Crete, but about all of Greece. In essence, that is to say, it is being strengthened by this award of economic and tourism to our country, but of course also by the level of prestige and recognition. And yet, for small-stakeholder football, blind, and possible blackmail to the government, some in the NDP are stirring up this effort. A short time ago, the productive operators, i.e. Heraklion Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Heraklion Hotel Association, the Association of Tourist and Travel Offices of Crete, the Association of Owners of Tourist Buses of Crete, Heraklion Commercial Association of Food and Entertainment Associations of Heraklion, Taxi Association, the Federation of Professionals of Craft Artists of Heraklion, the Association of Entrepreneurs of Rented Apartments of Heraklion, the Association of Car Rental and Diversities. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is worth the effort to introduce ourselves again because some - a few - of course - think that we are living in another period, at other times. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Let me remind you, Mr President, that we have a government of Mr Mitsotakis rather than Alexis Tsipras and that the seasons of extortion, shops and so on have passed. The State Secretary for Sports is not the George who claims to be invoked by Mr. Pappas in the dialogues that are published lately, but the alleged one. I say this because they have the impression that they will blackmail through the media or the journalistic guns that the government has for its decisions on the resolution and the household of sport. So I am right to say that our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and our Government are neither blackmailed nor owes any bills. Of course, it would be more useful if some were to speak vaguely and hypocritically in this Chamber or outside Athens, speaking by name, so as to show who are affected by our initiatives and not to hide behind barren and dark procedures, which the members of the ETUC know very well. For the government priority is sportsmen, the sports family and how we will help substantially to upgrade the country's sports ecosystem. Transparency and economics everywhere, and whoever is disturbed, let him go out and talk, and here we are giving him all the explanations that are needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, too. I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Kostas Karamanlis, in order to put it for the general number 375 and a special 29 amendment. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will try to be very brief. I am here to support the amendment by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport under a general number of 375 and a special 29. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is distinguished in two parts. The first relates to the destructive fires of 23 and 24 July 2018 in Matti and demolitions of buildings. What we have seen is that, because of the pandemic, the municipalities, as well as the Attica region, are often unable to cope with the most - the truth is - an increased volume of work. Therefore, in order to help the situation and not to waste any more time, we propose by means of Article 1 of the amendment that the services of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport should be defined as the responsibility for demolition. In order to explain this a little more simply to understand why those who are listening to us are quite sensitive - which I think you, Mr President, know very well - I will tell you that we have divided the buildings into what we call 'consistent repair' and 'uncomfortable repair'. With regard to ‘consumer repairs’, these are buildings with damages, i.e. with damages, which were initially assessed as repairable. Here it is re-examined by the relevant department of the Ministry, the IAEA, the extent and the cost of the repair, i.e. it is assessed whether the choice of repair or demolition is more advantageous and, in fact, what we are doing is choosing in some places to demolition these houses so that the beneficiaries can get compensation. In fact, to date, 50 three cases of buildings have been approved in the affected areas. So here, after these buildings have been demolished, the Greek state is actually coming and it pays off - it provides housing aid - with the sum of a thousand euros a square metre, with a maximum of 50 square meters. I therefore think that this will give a solution to a problem that concerns hundreds of our fellow citizens, who have suffered the consequences of this catastrophic fire two years ago. The second provision relates to the amendment of part of the Agency of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport with a view to reordering its services. In other words, we are focusing on these services of the Ministry of Transport and Public Works. In particular, we are reorganising the various Special Public Works Services, the so-called EEAS. Let's stress here that no one loses their job. Because we have been reading in social media lately and several things that do not really respond. These malfunctions of the services have an impact on the supervision of public works, and with this regulation, staff will be able to be staffed and with specific EEE stadiums on the ground in the works. The work of the OAS is also reinforced, a commitment that the Prime Minister himself has made in his programme statements, after conflicts have been lifted as a result of co-responsibility. Here we had the OAS and the EIF of Crete and the Dodecanese, which had the same object. So it was actually what was usually done in the Greek public: no one did his job properly. At the same time, I would like to stress that we are taking care to provide for two secondment of staff to the EEAS of Crete, with the full safeguard of labour rights and the appointment of the “ESC S.A.” as a body responsible for the payroll of the seconded personnel. That is what I have to say, Mr President, with regard to the initiatives and I would ask the Minister to accept them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Minister. I now give the floor to the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Dimitris Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u146	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I regret to note that the Members of the New Democracy, several of them rather than the Members of the New Democracy, did not follow you to this choice of maintaining a level in a debate which is both technical and political in that it forms a new landscape in the Court of Auditors, which is part of an effort - in which I think we all agree - to speed up the administration of justice, but also the more effective functioning of the courts. I will not insist on these issues, however, Minister, because unfortunately another tone has been given to the debate by a number of colleagues and, as I have said before, by Mr Aygeakis. Because they chose to insist on reproducing and supplying a constructed account of paradoxes, interventions in justice, a narrative that has drawn together and continues to rally all those powers today, few-governments, mediators, representatives of multinationals, owners of football teams or other groups, who have literally given the battle against SYRIZA not only because they have much to hide, but also because they want to do so, they want, and today they want to do so, to return to 'old good practices'. 'Old good practices' are today made by a panoramic of speech or history or by an ironic, if you like, of the situation and of life appallingly opportune with the disgraceful amendment tabled by Mr Augarians. Inappropriately, "photographic" and deeply condemned as logical and political insight into the consciousness of Greek citizens. What is Mr. Avgenakis doing that he has come here from the Step of the House to present himself as an honorer of the principles of justice and transparency? It allows, with this amendment, convicted last resorts of sport to return to the administration of clubs, to return to employment with sport until the court has decided or the adjourn that refers them to an irrevocable trial. Who are you photographing here, Mr. Ausgeakis? Do you have the political will to tell us who you are illustrating with this amendment, to say the names of those convicted, those who have been sentenced to court and those who have final judgments condemning them for fraud, extortion, torture and torture, who will return from tomorrow to the administration of sports clubs? Who are they? Why don't you have the courage to name them here? ‘Old Good Practices’, described also in the US government’s extrajudicial compromise with ‘NOVARTIS’. What are we reading there? Because in the end, we'll forget what we knew. That Greek officials had an unfair practical influence on the Greek Government - paragraph 42 of the extrajudicial compromise, I refer you directly - to make decisions in favour of the company. And we have various journalists, journalists, political executives, and even ministers, who come with a great deal of courage, say that the US state's out-of-court compromise with "NOVARTIS" also vindicates them politically and that there is building. These are unprecedented things in Greek public life. And not only is that, but it is also a diversion that all of us together, who themselves, take back the worst traditions of the neo-democratic regime in the period 1990-1993. And I am sorry, Minister, that you are not taking a position on the question that has been asked in connection with the use of illegal material, but you are choosing to bypass the debate by reference to the 2015 regulation on the legalisation of evidence. But you're making a very big mistake and you're involved in issues that are strictly legal, and the Justice Minister should be more careful. And what do I mean? You're wrong in all your analysis. Because the 2015 provision was intended to assist the work of prosecutors of corruption and economic prosecutors in the fight against economic crime and did not concern matters that, if you like, could be done by producers and impression manufacturers to produce correlations in the political game. If you wish, I can explain this further, that this provision provided for specific conditions and even if that provision were to apply today, the material to which you are all referring would again be illegal. Therefore, your answer is unsuccessful, absolutely, and more. What would happen if that arrangement were in place? Surely it would not legalise para-state methods to become a political game aimed at impressing, even a political distraction against what? Not only in the existing "NOVARTIS" scandals, for which the company is currently being inhabited, only for what happened in Greece in the period 2012-2015. And it is no accident to refer the extrajudicial compromise to this particular period. It does not accidentally coincide with the governance of Samaras and with the Minister of certain political officials who are today playing a central role in the New Democracy, such as Mr Georgiadis who also has the political courage to go as a citizen, as Mr Petsas said, to threaten in practice a supreme judicial officer to put her in prison. And you blame SYRIZA for para-state methods, for para-state? Do you have such a political nerve? Politician, then, diversion game against what? I repeat, not only in the real - factually and with the boulder - scandals, but also in a grim economic situation, with a constant slump in wages - the process of lowering the wages in the private sector began by 20% - with mass redundancies, with the necroction of the real economic activity for which you did absolutely nothing, but you did not act by waiting for full restructuring of the Greek economy to be mobilised for the benefit of the interests you serve. But you'll find all this in front of you. And I urge you to have less arrogance, less self- admiration for how well you have done, because all of this will be in front of you in the next few months. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u147	Mr Aygeakis has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u148	If we hadn't known Mr. Janakopoulos, we'd say he was a spokesperson for another government and not Alexis Tsipras with Nikos Papapas and the others. But come on, remember. It has not been too many years, but only a few months. I would suggest you, dear Mr. Janakopoulos, read, in addition to "AGE" and left.gr, and the provisions because you did not know what you were saying before. I repeat and please listen very carefully. I am sure you will review what you said earlier. Article 1 shall apply to restrictions on registration and restrictions. And what do we modify, Mr. Janakopoulos? In paragraph 1(b): ‘the person must have been irrevocably or irrevocably convicted’ and not simply finalised in paragraph 1(b).
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u149	Hey, that's what I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u150	Listen to me. I heard you very carefully. And, of course, the coma of the omitted will last until the extradition if an acquittal decision is adopted. For the whole time, he'll be forbidden.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u151	That's self-evident!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u152	Listen to me, don't rush. Easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u153	Ask a lawyer!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, I do not understand now! If you cannot stand the dialogue, go and revolt your way out of Halloween. Hold your nerves, colleague. It's still early. We have time ahead of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u155	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u156	So, since the honourable Member allows us to speak, the natural tide of the omission will last until the adoption of an acquittal decision, and in the event of a convicting decision, the coma will be maintained contrary to the current ones. At the same time, we are adjusting the obstacles in the case of criminal offences in accordance with the new Criminal Code. These are for those colleagues who probably did not understand or even read 'HAY' and 'Left.gr' alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Minister. The Minister for Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiaras, has the floor to present a legislative improvement, followed by the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Theodoros Lebanon.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President, we are tabling a legislative improvement on this amendment so that this House can be kept informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u159	Mr Levanière, you have the floor to defend the amendment by a general number of 372 and a special 26.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the relevant amendment by the Ministry of Interior, which we tabled in this House in due course, is intended to regulate certain urgent matters, on the basis of certain deadlines which expire tomorrow 30 June. The important thing in these amendments is that first of all, an extension is granted for the adaptation of nurseries to the provisions of Presidential Decree 99/2017 to 31-8-2021, with the exception of - and it is the legal improvement that Mr Tsiaras, the Minister for Justice - has just tabled - the issues of active fire safety, where the deadline is 31-10-2020. So we shorten the deadline at least for the piece of active fire safety at the children's stations. This story has been a long time. There are extensions, there are indeed some problems which also relate to the use of land operated by children's stations. We will do everything in cooperation with the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece, in order to directly regulate this issue in the interests of security, particularly of hospitality. The second large package of provisions relates to the extension of the declarations for the correction of square metres to the electronic application developed by the Ministry of Interior and the CEDEFOP. With recent figures up to an hour ago, about sixteen thousand-seven-seven-seven applications have been submitted to the fourteen-three-and-a-half-half-three months ago, to say another fourteen-and-a-half kilometres of undeclared surfaces, all these years have not been declared, with loss of either the local government agencies - the municipalities - to be deprived of an important piece of revenue which, in the midst of about EUR 1 square feet, is about EUR 15 million annual loss of revenue, but also the citizens themselves being forced by this change, to pay superfluous retroactive debts. Also, by way of legislation submitted a short time ago, it is extended to 31-8-2020 and the possibility of declaring the unused property. This has started since July 2018. We are in two years' time that this regulation is running and on this very spirit, so that there is no misunderstanding and no surprise among the citizens, we are also giving a short two-month extension. I stress that the two procedures are completely independent. Other square metres and differences in declared square metres and a statement of blanks, non-electrical real estate. As I said before, one runs about two years, the other about four months. We are also giving an extension briefly - and I think it will be the last one to be given - on the notorious administrative support of the municipalities up to 31-10-2020. The truth is that we have been about ten years running this measure which, based on intentions, was correct in its mind, but it has had a condition that has not been complied with, that the technical services and the three hundred and thirty-two municipalities of the country are properly staffed. This, and because of the constraints on the budgets that were in existence, has not been possible. The result is that the vast majority of the old counties - prefecture seats support administratively small neighbouring municipalities. We have taken an important step in this direction with No4674 and with the development agencies, bearing in mind one thing, which I think also concerns all sides of the House: how can we speed up projects, absorb resources and even small municipalities can do supervision of their own projects. That is why we also supported the EBRD, the town networks and various other bodies in the wider public sector, and that is why we also made the innovative solution of development agencies so that all municipalities can have staffed services. The administrative support of the building services is also being extended until the same time, bearing in mind that we are in constant contact with the Ministry of the Environment and its political leadership and Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Economou, in order to find the best solution for the service of citizens. It is characteristic that an important part of growth and an important part of new jobs will also come based on building activity. That is why we need to speed up the procedures for issuing building permits. Arrangements are being prepared and processed where building permits can be further simplified, at least for small-scale construction, prepared by the Ministry of the Environment. And we believe that on 1 November we will be able to have functional building services everywhere in the whole of the country's municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u161	And we thank the Minister. I call on the Joint Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, Mr Athanasio Pafili.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, I would like to ask questions...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u163	Now I've got the floor. You can talk about it later. A little respect doesn't hurt. He's given me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Spirtzi, Mr. Pafilis has now gone to Step. To which Minister do you want to ask questions?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u165	The Minister for the Interior and Infrastructure and Transport.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u166	You were gone. Mr. Spirtzi, we have to put some things in place. When the speech of the ministers before you, as you have seen, Mr. Janakopoulos referred to Mr. Augiakis. He was given the floor. Reply, it's over. No one asked for the floor for Mr Karamanlis. And you come now and ask for the floor. For Mr. Livano you will take the floor immediately after Mr. Pafile's place. Mr. Paphie, I'm sorry. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u167	Although we are discussing a bill from the Ministry of Justice, the political menu has already been formed. And it's shaped like this, because when you want to hide the strategic deal, you're fighting the individual. This is happening and it's a thousand-dollar project and we've seen it. What does "menu" say? "NOVARTIS", "Monor and list of Pechas, the basics. So let's see this "menu" how it shapes and gives the opportunity for classic "cross-fighting", not to say a lot of talk. ‘NOVARTIS’. Both of them and PASOK inside, KINAL. Tell us. Didn't you - Mr. Spirtzi, will I start from you - everything to ensure that the NOVARTIS scandal is not investigated in depth? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u168	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u169	You did everything. You have denied the proposal we have made on several occasions and played, as are others - better or worse - a political game. You'll hear them then. You of the New Democracy, why are you yelling? You focused "NOVARTIS" on Papaggiopoulou finally, as was the case with "SIEMENS", where with "SIEMENS" they were all responsible, the seven responsible were three, one of which was Mandelis. That's how it turned out. We're talking about the people, not about you. You know very well what's going on. What's the extrajudicial compromise? It's just a photocopy of what happened and what's happening in general when they're supposed to be making such scandals at the forefront. And they don't come out of government investigations, but they come out of great controversy between states and companies, which in fact also hide the extent and the real responsibility for the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, which is the commercialisation of the drug, the intangible, enormous competition of companies. And now you're both entitled to. How did the ‘SIEMENS’ agreement come to an end? I'm going to go back to this because it was considered the biggest scandal of the century. How did it close? He concluded with an agreement signed by the Government of New Democracy - PASOK with SIEMENS that he would invest in Greece and help us, he says, hit corruption. Thu, Lord, put my mouth in jail! SIEMENS will help us! One hundred and twenty countries were involved. SYRIZA had then come out in the "keramides" that "I will terminate this agreement and it is unacceptable". And he just came to the government, he applied it just fine. So now with 'NOVARTIS'. Second, the Mioney case. What does that mean for the people - give the governments, all governments, with the business groups and take it - give it to the states? I'm asking you, and the Greek people are listening. Did Mioney record the conversation? Yes or no? Well, are these your allies? Don't you have allies? Israel has it 'God'. And SYRIZA. You're fighting who upgraded the deal and the relationships with a killer state. And he taped you on top of it. That's why no one's gonna talk? SYRIZA doesn't talk either. SYRIZA says: 'They are legal?'. What legal? To raise a question of protesting in the State of Israel. Because by government order came, with "Bibby", Netanyahu, which you notified immediately. Why isn't the New Democracy talking about it? Why does the government not take a step forward that it is an unacceptable economic factor that has come to Greece - if what is true - to record Greek government minister? Why don't you all talk? Nobody's talking about it. It's data. With them you make deals, of course at the expense of the people. Incidentally, since 2017, Mr. Spirtzi and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we have reported hearings and attendances of the offices of the Central Committee of the JRC. What did you do? There's evidence. Indifferently, AIA is aware that it is from fourteen countries. He knows it's from Great Britain, the United States of America, etc. Silence, rehearsal! It was the humiliation that justice said that we cannot investigate it because we do not have the protocol number. And we had to publish it. So why are you talking, anyway? Let's go down. Third issue, the Pecha list, the Poppa list, or I don't know who. Yes, sir! You're saying he gave money in secret. There's everything. Question: Why don't you take the JRC's amendment? Mr. Chiara? Mr. Spirtzi? From PASOK the same. What do we say? First. Messages from the Ministry of Health and other public bodies to prevent, deal with diseases, epidemics, vaccinations free of charge from all mass media. Where do you disagree? Tell us. Where do you disagree? Is it possible for people and them to die to make money and, indeed, state from the workers' pockets? What barbarity is this and inhumanity? And they seemed now in the coronary crisis. Why did you give them that kind of money? Apologise to the Greek people, the dead, the sick, the suffering. So why don't you accept that? Two. What do you say? Detailed publication on the website of the General Secretariat of Information on who and how much it takes. Where do you disagree, you who have made transparency'significant', while we say that fraud is transparency? Why don't you take it? What do you all have to hide from your rulers in this country? Third. How are the sums given? If there are objective criteria. If they are not respected, we say they should be cancelled and the money should be turned back. And if there's a lack of publicity, there's a criminal prosecution. Tell us. Where do you disagree with that? What are you afraid of? You say we don't know the "games" you all play at the expense of the people, who are dirty? With all the media? With no website? With the "giants" of the information, who are also shipowners, who are manufacturers and anything else and you are tormenting them in money from the Greek people? Where do you disagree? When you go and ask, tell people why you don't want to. Fourth. And here is the "jumi". In the last ten years, all the information and all the "workers" have been given on their bench. And New Democracy and SYRIZA and PASOK. Where do you disagree? What are you afraid of? What are you going to say to a "bloody blood" employee? That you gave 15 million for advertising - for presenting, as you say - about what people should do to avoid dying? What are you gonna tell him, really? We'll show it and see. The main thing, of course, as you say - and that is correct in one respect, we do not object or be petty - is what he said, the Court of Auditors' procedural procedure, although we have some serious disagreements in this regard. However, that's the basic thing. But the articles added...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u170	Not from us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u171	What about the investment courts?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u172	That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u173	Oh, that's another matter. Is that the case of the Court of Auditors, Mr. Chiara? Is that the Court of Auditors' case?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u174	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u175	Oh, good. The articles you have added together are very serious. And that's not it, and that's where we focus without underestimating some other things. What are you doing? Investment Courts. You are talking about justice for everyone, we have two speeds, we have the elite, which pushes the full investments - and SYRIZA votes 'at present', because he doesn't dare, he does the same and he puts it supposedly not good preconditions. That's what you said, that's what I heard here and that doesn't change. He doesn't raise the strategic issue. So what do we have? Two speeds, the investor, who can't pay good lawyers, who can't push, and he has a luxury court, like the Korydalus cells to make a likeance, while the people in the tail. Why don't you do the same for the work affairs that the other one doesn't have to eat, that doesn't give him the pension, that owes him thousands of euros and that lives in poverty and misery and others you keep pushing them all the time? That's why it's classic, beyond everything else. Those who produce their wealth have been thrown away. For those who are supposed to bring growth, once again from the work and the stealing of workers' sweat, especially courts, which, beyond all else, will weaken the courts by staff and by the whole of them. Here too, since you tell us that justice is for everyone, the JRC has tabled an amendment, which says who takes the lead, to say it simply in words to make people know about it in the event of auctions of businesses. The dilemma is who precedes, workers or banks? Banks are investing, granting loans, supported by subsidies from the Greek people, money from the Greek people, with the European Union's programmes, which are also European citizens. And of course they're screwed, let's say it. Let's call it that. But good, aren't you with capitalism? It's a business risk, isn't it? Who's gonna pay? The workers, then, with their sweats, have been offering their labor power over the years, and they are last on the list. Who's coming first? The banks. How much did they get from recapitalisation? Billions. How much? Of all governments over the years. What are you? What "travel" are you telling us? Barbaric is this political, barbaric class, cruel, inhumane. Do not tell us that the banks are more important than the workers who worked in industry and everywhere, and that for various reasons, apart from exceptions, the various entrepreneurs and investors have closed them down or been bankrupt. If the workers stop working, does anything work? They produced the wealth. So you, who have given their sweat, throw them away, literally throw them away. And SYRIZA what he did was middle-season, six months and so forth, to ease it. For the rest, protection of profits. When it comes to the time the people take, banks that may also be shareholders, not to mention the example of "Larco" and are condemned. So who are you all with? And let's do whatever you want. You are with capital, with bankers, and not with the overwhelming majority of the people. Now let us leave 'justice for everyone'. Justice is seen by the laws which apply, first and foremost by the amendments made. It's tough class justice. The people must not forgive them. We invite him to draw conclusions from these examples. They are hundreds of thousands of people who will see the bankers take the money first and the workers not to take it at all, because they are not enough. Understanding where it is in the interest to erase the delusionalities of those who have fooled them - although we have not been fooled - for a more human capitalism and bow for a power, for a society that will belong to them and that will not steal their sweat.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u176	Mr Spirtzi, you only have the floor on the subject of the amendment, because then you are a speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u177	Yes, on the subject of the amendment and why Mr Pafilis also mentioned my name. Dear Thanasis, if I knew before you spoke what to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u178	Did I talk to you on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Spirtzi, these when you take the floor. You will not speak on another point.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, on personal grounds I asked for the floor because he mentioned my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u181	I didn't see any staff, and I'm in charge of judging it. If you want to talk to the Minister and ask what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u182	Minister, today, fifty amendments to the law of the state of staff and forty of local government have been closed since the day you are government. In the amendment you bring, you have five more. In the first article - you did not develop these in your place, so we are asking - you are late to put the ministerial secretaries of the ministries, who are involved in the heads' selection boards. Why, one year now, do you not have them put up and bring an amendment to participate in the party-general secretaries you have appointed and when do you predict that you will place them, to fulfill your own law, not ours? In the next paragraph we have again pointed out to many tons, and we have again made amendments to the respective laws - indeed the draft strategic development perspective of local authorities, when it had been discussed - and we have told you about mobility that it will be delayed and the amendments that you have made at the time that they will not be implemented. Today you come and tell us because of a coronary. What because of a coronary? Is that because of a coronary again? In the next, in Article 3 - the others we will talk about in our position - you have the third extension for children and nurseries, the third. What do you do a year? And you anticipate for the public. For the private, will you predict something? They're getting voucher right now. The kids who go there will be able to go from September? You're doing the same for the electrodones. You've left uncovered the buildings that aren't electrical. But where it's really outrageous is in Article 4. Article 4 provides for all municipalities to activate the construction services which had the right to do so and had not done so. And you come and tell us now that this is to be done through development. Is that possible? Is it possible to tell us that we're going to do three hundred forty-forty-fixing services with zero staff? Will it sign the building permits for private individuals from development? Well, I would ask you very much to make it clear that the compulsory start of construction services in all municipalities is not accompanied by their privatisation in the ways you have foreseen, because this is also unconstitutional and illegal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u183	Minister, you have the floor to answer Mr Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u184	Let's start with the first. The secretaries, in the vast majority of the Ministries, have been posted and their place is completed. It is a cheque of Law 4622, this law applies, the crises proceeded and, in the midst of the first corndovirus restrictive measures, and the procedure was completed. If there is a Ministry where it is not completed, which I do not know at this time, it will be placed. However, most of the secretaries have taken up their duties, they have an important role and a position of responsibility according to what is provided for in the law and the procedure goes on. Second, mobility. For three months a large part of the administrative directorates had not been working, were subordinated because of a coronary. Because there are exclusive deadlines and in order not to subject these people to the suffering of re-applying and further delaying the mobility process, we are giving a last short extension. As far as squares are concerned, I said it before. I guess you didn't hear that. The electrodes are already covered by 31 August with a legislative improvement that we submitted this morning. This is so that there is no surprise, I say it again and I will say it again. Fourthly and more importantly. You yourself as a government in Law 4555 had predicted that each municipality would be able to set up building services and a number of tools were introduced, including inter-universal cooperation, and the continuation of administrative presence, which should continue to work. We want towns to work. We want the municipalities to cooperate with each other in order to be able to serve and serve anyone who wants to issue building permits. What I said - and I say again - is that in the very near future there is also regulation in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment as an expedited Ministry in which you will see that there will be even greater simplifications in the process of issuing town permits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u185	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Zoe Raptis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u186	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, following the thorough preparation of the bill in the committees that were before us, but also after the debate before us, I think most of my colleagues admit that this is going in the right direction and has a clear direction, the consolidation of the procedural provisions and the codification of the existing legislation on the Court of Auditors - which we have said many times - is very important for us to have an effective function of the Court of Auditors - to speed up the administration of justice by setting up pilots of the special sections of the case in the major primary courts and appeals of the country, but also in the functioning of the independent statistical directorate at the Ministry of Justice. Here too, I would like to congratulate the Minister and to emphasise his always willingness to examine fully all the claims made by colleagues, the claims made by the Vice-Presidents and, of course, does not hesitate to adopt those of them who are moving in the right direction towards improving the draft law in the interests of society and the Greek citizens. And in this bill there was convergence, convergence of views on the creation of such a necessary independent statistical service. This service will also be created by the consolidation of the other addresses of the Ministry, according to the labelling of opposition colleagues. In addition, this draft law has a clear direction towards improving the transparency of the operation of the Greek State. That is why it provides for new powers to be delegated to the Court of Auditors, with precedence to carry out those targeted controls, provided that a broad political consensus is reached by the majority of the House to this effect. Finally, I think we all agree with the digital reforms that this draft law introduces into the area of justice for the use of electronic means and new technologies, which, of course, also echo the consistent position of our Government on the digital transformation of the state. Ladies and gentlemen, the attempt to modernise and clarify the way in which justice operates is 'conditio sine qua non' in a modern rule of law. And despite the fact that it is not in this debate - as the Minister rightly pointed out - it is not about what has been distributed to the Committee of Inquiry in this House, I cannot comment on what has been said in public, but also here in Parliament by colleagues from anti-Population. Because, as our people say: 'Where we were owed, we were taken with the ox.' They therefore argued before us that the government has been attempting to cover the 'NOVARTIS' scandal by turning it into a Papagelopoulos. However, the story of "NOVARTIS" leaves SYRIZA himself not only because he has set up a structure for the spiral of his political opponents, but also because he has done nothing at all to reveal those who have really harmed the Greek state. All that was interested in SYRIZA's leadership was to control the joints of power. And, of course, a response should also be given to the citizens who believe that you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, have intervened in justice during your governance. I will also present a recent survey of Nayteborg. It is therefore necessary, on the one hand, to reveal those responsible for this process and, on the other hand, to bring about a sooner or later the conclusion of the preliminary inquiry committee for the information of the House and, on the other, to make a decision on whether or not to refer those concerned to justice and, on the other hand, to continue its work so that those who have damaged the Greek public can be punished and, on the other hand, 'NOVARTIS' has remedied the damage caused to the public and the Greek citizens. Why, watch what happened in our country. While the unfair practices of "NOVARTIS" were investigated by justice in more than fifteen countries, focusing on research, a scandal involving, above all, methods of promoting drugs, a global scandal in Greece over SYRIZA, instead of ensuring the interests of the public by identifying the responsible state officials and individuals in the drug and advertising cycle, the case was used politically to hit political opponents, without finding out any of the responsible ones who damaged the public and, of course, without seeking any compensation, as was done in America. Unfortunately, the closure of the case with economic compromise between the US public and the company has shown the truth. In other words, the fine ‘NOVARTIS’ was imposed on private providers, clinics and hospitals. There is no reference to any political person for price manipulation, only overwriting and directed prescription. It has also been shown that there was no investigation in the United States of civil offences. Finally, the biggest scandal of paying the Greek state closed off-court, noting only the involvement of health professionals and - most importantly - the compensation of the US government by the company with many millions of euros. On the contrary, in Greece of SYRIZA zero in the Greek public funds! I have not heard any research in the direction of finding the costs, and none of the requirements have been put forward and no compensation has been received by the company. Therefore, the opposites erected by SYRIZA are another attempt to make news, distortion and falsification of reality. It is therefore precisely for this purpose that, in the case of claims against the company and other persons involved, the Government immediately undertakes the initiative to investigate all appropriate ways to compensate the Greek State by triggering the state mechanism and the Legal Council of State. Ladies and gentlemen, every legislative effort that moves towards the effective functioning of justice is in any case more than necessary. Citizens expect the state and justice to work quickly and transparently with us, to always defend the interests of the Greek public and Greek citizens by legislating. This draft law also works in this direction. And that is why I invite you all to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u187	We are also grateful for the implementation of the consistency of time. Please prepare the Step. My fellow Member from the Change Movement Mr Dimitris Konstantopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u188	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, you will allow me to begin with the national issues and national events which are the major one for all of us, in order to promote the events, as was said by the late Charilaos Florakis. So we should be convening the Political Heads of State yesterday, as we have repeatedly asked for by our President, Mr Fofi Gennimata. This is also a matter of national consultation, so that a national line can finally be decided on which Turkey every day proposes and demands. Because we are living in Turkey's delicacy with the falsified Libyan pact. And it is clear to all of us that our national sovereign rights are unnegotiable. However, it is clear to everyone that the immediate decision to delimit the EEZ is taken and use our right to expand the continental shelf to twelve miles. That's all for now. And I come to the bill. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, today in plenary, about the Law of the Ministry of Justice with a core of the legislation governing the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors, one of the three highest courts in our country, has an important role to play both in judicial powers and in the control of public spending. It is the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, which ensures transparency, accountability and impartiality in public finances. However, today there is a fragmentation of the rules for the Court of Auditors in various legislation. It is therefore necessary to rationalise the institutional framework even today. Ladies and gentlemen, the reform and modernisation of the legislation of the Court of Auditors and the codification of the provisions contained in the bill have been processed by the Committee on Legal Affairs and by the Court of Auditors' plenary. The regulations, therefore, have been encrypted legally in order to meet the current needs of the court. Our rapporteur, Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou, has referred in detail to them, where she has tabled concrete proposals. Mr Minister, at this point I would say that you will accept them. However, I will focus on specific remarks concerning pre-contractual control of works and supplies contracts. According to the bill, the limit is EUR 300,000 of the EUR 500,000 that is today and we regard it as a positive regulation. But here, Minister, you could also consider the further reduction of this limit, given that preventive expenditure control has been abolished. It is also planned to set up special chambers in the country's political and administrative courts. The aim is to speed up the administration of justice. For example, the special sections of the political courts will be subject to energy cases, e-service cases and personal data protection. And here, of course, Minister, some questions arise. How have these objects been selected, under which criteria, in which consultation? So, how is it decided what case is more important than another? And what do we answer the citizens who have been waiting for years for their cases to be dealt with? Has it also been ensured that these chambers are staffed with judges and judges, so that we do not fall short of the existing departments and agencies? And these are questions. Finally, with regard to the creation of an office for collecting statistical data, I should like to point out here, Minister, that it is a basic principle for us to fight bureaucracy, to strengthen the effectiveness of the state mechanism and, of course, to rapidly award justice. That is why we are not negative in collecting and analysing statistics, which will help to improve the functioning of our courts and will ultimately facilitate citizens' access to justice. However, we expect to see, Minister, how this office will operate in practice, how it will fulfil the objectives set out in the bill. I close my reference to the Court of Auditors with the basic problem facing the citizens today. And that's the government's compliance with the court's decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments to the legislation are never enough unless we create the conditions and the diagrams to ensure the effective implementation and implementation of the decisions of the audit conference. By who? First of all from the public. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to pass on to the amendment by the Minister of Culture and Sport, in which the blockades are redefined. Changes are coming and I would even say significant changes, but with photographic references and provisions. Now, in terms of blocking of participation, due to the involvement of criminal offences, the condition of the irrevocable sentence or reference to a trial and not a final sentence is laid down. Here I can say that this is a regulation that depends on the presumption of innocence. You brought me legal. However, the substance of the barrier is maintained. It's just, since last year's service, where are we going? To the irrevocable. That's the reality. I come to the referees and, indeed, to the matter concerning the arbitrators. The coma, ladies and gentlemen, is limited to the current referees and not to the wrestlers. However, it is a oxymomile that there is no corresponding prediction for athletes who have to wait for one year from their last participation in an official race in order to participate in a sports club. And I ask: is that fair to athletes? Further with the amendment, Minister, you are abolishing as anachronistic obstacles to sports dealers and license holders of prognostic competitions. However, these obstacles were aimed at safeguarding transparency and preventing vertical economic relations in sport. The regulation that comes, therefore, creates a risk of privatising and marketing sport. The reactions are a lot of them, and we disagree. Let me note that an exception could be provided for our Olympics. You bring the legislative technique at the same time as the original form of the amendment. You have disconnected the coma - I would say - because of participation in the OPCW and other betting companies from certain percentages. Now with the legislature, reset 15%. We must finally determine what you mean. Finally, Article 2 of the amendment removes the emblem for workers in the initial associations and federations who wish to be declared candidates for the administration of the sport union. This is because of the fact that they have of course resigned from their position in a comparable period of time. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] However, there is no corresponding provision for the staff of sports clubs, which under Article 3 of the sport law have to wait a year from the end of their employment relationship to be able to be candidates. So what do we see here? Two yards and two weights. Ladies and gentlemen, we support open inclusive procedures. It is not possible for our athletes to be restricted by their participation in electoral procedures for bureaucratic and non-essential reasons. After all, the space of sport is not a field of personal pursuit and party intervention. Reliability, dignity, merit, equivalency and equivalency are required for all. Any change in the institutional framework must be done with full awareness of the specificities of the space and of the international legal order and this, of course, with dialogue and consultation and not with the Minister, with surprises. Mr Minister, as the amendment comes, I would say, with a smack of regulations and where we agree, we cannot vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement supports the modernisation of legislation and the optimal administration of justice for the benefit of many, for the benefit of citizens, as appropriate in a favoured state. In closing, however, I cannot comment on the developments that we have been experiencing in the field of justice in recent days, with underground routes and images that do not honor parliamentary life, images that have taken place for days of government SYRIZA - ANEL. I have one word to say: shame, shame, shame, to talk about 'the dirty '89', who? Mr. Kouvelis and his company, one of the strands of war against Andreas Papandreou in '89. So take your conclusions. The Change Movement, PASOK, with its autonomy every day is vindicated. And he tells you this, someone who's a centre-left, and he's a centre-left man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, too. Mr. Spirtzis has the floor from the Radical Left Coalition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. Both our rapporteurs and my fellow SYRIZA Members have spoken adequately about the draft law. I have one question, Minister, to ask you, in relation to the draft law, not the amendments. I shall speak in particular about the amendments. Why do you not abolish the individual provisions bypassing the audit of the Court of Auditors, because of the coronary? Tourism opens, the country opens. You have passed - not you - the other Ministries - tens of provisions that circumvent the Court of Auditors' control. Why don't you remove them? Why don't you put an addition to the amendments, that all of them - which is because of the fact that there is a party in the municipalities, regions and other bodies - are abolishing them and passing through the Court of Auditors' control? One is that. The second is that they confuse the Court of Auditors with EFSA. I'll tell you later. I shall therefore refer to the amendments tabled. Unfortunately, you will listen to them. It is not your fault, but you accepted the amendments. It comes to a conclusion that the government is a government of the coronary, direct awards of projects and supplies because of the coronary, but even in the common sense that they are made because of coronary and, of course, to the individual beans that turn us back a lot - many years back in the public sector and the awards of projects and studies. We're talking about pandemic. To give an example that concerns half Greece from the outside, the 'big walk', the so-called 'big walk'. Because it is not the "big walk" of the unification of the archaeological sites, what Melina and other ministers have envisioned in the past. Because of the coronary, this work is also done, without transport studies, without legal procedures, without democratic planning and consultation, but by justifying the project as an urgent need for a coronary. The so-called 'big walk'. I heard the answer from the Municipality of Athens. That is why I said not to confuse the Court of Auditors with EFSA. They have not gone to EFSA to make use of the negotiation article, and even without publication. I therefore believe that these are beans, which really do not benefit neither Parliament nor the country, nor the citizens, and we live with them every day. And, in fact, it is tragic that such a visionary plan of unification of the archaeological sites and the "big walk" is thus criminalised in the conscience of the Greek people and the Athenians, when the "big walk" is based on public transport, which, because of a coronary, we say, is not used by citizens. These things are tragic. But let's go to the second puppy of the so-called 'big walk'. The second spoon is that this afternoon the government tables the draft law on strikes and marches. Are we asking whether this project is coordinated with the Municipality of Athens and whether - as a result of a coronary - the so-called 'big walk' is for the marches in the centre of the city? It's tragic what you're doing! We shall now proceed to the amendments tabled. Hasn't the government been bored of disobeying himself? Amendment of the Ministry of Digital Governance in August 2019 with Law 4623/2019, with a number of provisions relating to the Ministry of Digital Governance and the operation of its units. You're voting for the law. Presidential Decree 40/2020 was issued, which is the body of the Ministry in question. The Presidential Decree sees it as the Council of State, it is the other procedures that are heavier. You are coming today with an amendment and you are changing the organization. It is planned to set up sixty new organic staff, posted officials, at a cost of EUR 1.5 million in relation to what you voted in August. Another amendment from the Ministry of Interior. I said it before in my question. Fifty amendments to articles by the final state, forty amendments to the draft law on local government. Today is another five for one sector and another five, I think, for the other. The Minister said in his reply that most of the General Secretaries of the Ministries, the secretaries, who are involved in the selection boards of heads, have been posted. Why do you bring the amendment back then, not to involve those following the procedure of the law, but to some who are now? Because of a coronary again. In other words, the secretary-general has not been posted for a two-month period. The next article. Because of a coronary, mobility did not take place. We've been seeing each other since. The whole Opposition said that the deadlines are not correct, you will not prevent, and so on, because of the coronary we have an extension. Okay, what you're doing for the CFS, I think a number has to go in. So, can't a member of the CFSF retire and have predicted participation in, for example, seven hundred committees? Put a number on it, after retiring, to help the Greek State in three, four, five committees, but not in infinitely, as foreseen here. Extension of time limits. We've been through it. Okay, it's the third extension. It does not provide for private stations. That's also the issue of the Ministry of Labour. It's logical that we should deal with it. But there, where things are tragic, they are in construction services. It's unbelievable. Municipalities that do not have one engineer, two engineers, must make them set up a building service, with the alibi supposedly covering them. Crazy! All building permits will come out voids. We shall now proceed to the amendment of the Ministry of Infrastructure. It's too bad that Costas Karamanlis is gone and I haven't had time to ask him, but some things are out of every logic and justification. Because of the pandemic, it says, the municipalities and the district have not been able to demolition. But demolition from the fire is not in the municipalities and the district. Have you forgotten? It was at the Ministry of Infrastructure. We left you competitions, Karamanlis signed them. In fact, they were finished, they were signed by Mr Karamanlis and you came with that communication storm and you made the great company "MYXANA", which so far has done nothing. Zero, not a single euro! "MY DAY"! Don't you remember them? One, he says, that's what he justified. He does not say the failure of "MY NEED". Let's go to second. He's backing up, he says, OAS's work. Lies! Because there were, he says, the same responsibilities as the Greek National Agency for Crete. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. There's no bigger lie. The OAS was used by New Democracy as the Rushphetological Shop in Crete for a number of projects. Let me remind you of some northern Crete road. Decades hadn't even studied. Five miles here, gossip, three there, two elsewhere. We've been looking for two years to find out what they had done from studies. Hamezio Bridge, the acropolis of public works. Twelve years had made half the bridge, which had a static problem. Twelve years. Messaras road network. Sixteen years. Okay. Strengthen the Oak by abolishing the NSA. Guves - Hersonissos. From 2012 to 2015, not a single euro has been absorbed and we said in cooperation with the region, municipalities and all other actors in Crete that we do not have a conflict of competence. The road network belonging to the region belongs to the region. The road network, which is interregional, between the prefectures, that is, BOAK, belongs to the Ministry and we did EEAS throughout Greece. Where does the minister's lie look? That for all the rest of the EEAS which abolishes, their competences are transferred to the EEAS which merges or to the Ministry's address, except for the Crete Development Agency, which neither the region wants to have road responsibilities nor any other body, except the New Republic of Chania. Watch out, not Heraklion. If you go to Heraklion, you'll find disagreements there. Of course, they are still ringing in both the ears of the citizens and our congratulations of the Prime Minister to the structures of the government a month ago and we see how you honour the public and the building services, but also the abolition of the EEAS throughout Greece. Couldn't the NSA Thrace, say, help the local government, which is subordinated, but do we remove it and take it to Thessaloniki? Same for the continent. Could not the other NPCIs, who bring them back to Athens, play a role, help other decentralised bodies?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u191	Mr. Spirtzi, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u192	I'm done, Mr. President. It is simply not possible in the Chamber to hear explanations from the Ministers, which do not even apply to anything. And one last word about my friend, the JRC Parliamentary Representative, Thanasis Paphie. For us, the confrontation room with the JRC is not Parliament. This is where we are confronted with the neoliberal pogrom, which is being done in the country by New Democracy. With the JRC, whenever they want, we have a public or private dialogue to see who has responsibilities or not. This is not the line that goes hand in hand with the protection of democracy and the progressive world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Kegeroglu, because Mr. Javaras wants to argue in favour of his amendment and keep it in mind...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u194	It is a precedent, Mr President. For many reasons!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u195	Good. Here you go, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u196	Thank you very much. In this very successful piece of legislation, which is currently brought to Parliament by the Minister of Justice, I and I have had the initiative to add a regulation in the form of an amendment tabled since 23 June and with various and successive legislative improvements which have been the product of my cooperation with the Minister's chosen advisers to find the best form of this regulation. I have come to see you today, ladies and gentlemen, and ask you to adopt a regulation which is essentially in line with the spirit of the provision in Article 308 of this draft law. This provision of Article 308 renders the very spirit of the legislature, in which cases are not formally tried and the legal remedies and legal means of appeal are not rejected for insignificant reasons, but the legislature always wants to have a judicial judgement by the competent state bodies. That is why, in the case in which a request for judicial protection has been rejected for formal reasons, namely that the offence should not be lodged, in the administrative court proceedings, I propose that a further period should be granted to those who had not obtained any success of the time limit given by the legislator of Law 4509/2017 in accordance with Article 25, where, after the amendment of the provision of Article 287 and Article 139a of the Code of Administrative Procedure, those who had not submitted the paradox in the final administrative court, after being notified, should still be given the opportunity to ask for their case to be decided on the substance. So, with this amendment, I would ask for this opportunity to be given to any lawyers or parties who had not been present properly or at all during the trial in the second instance and in that sense, once they had paid the paradox, to be given the opportunity to decide on the substance of their case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, too. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Kegeroglu, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] On the occasion of Mr Spirtzi's report on opponents, I would like to say that we, the Change Movement, have, as our main opponents, the problems experienced by society, the problems experienced by the country and conducive to these problems as rivals and those who either act to resolve them or invest in failure to find solutions in order to benefit parties. This is our priority, and this is how we do it. All this time of the crisis, of course, with regard to the measures taken and also to those which need to be taken to relaunch the economy, we find with regret that the government has not given priority to dealing with the deep recession, which will also be the result of the inaction with which we will deal with it. It is not certain that the recession will be a certain percentage. It will depend on whether we are going to take advantage of the country's domestic capabilities, which are not in the situation of 2009 with huge deficits, but also whether we are going to take advantage of the support of the European Union. So it is a matter that will concern us in the next period and we must all focus on dealing with the problems and our opponents, as I have said, should only be those and those who support them or fuel them for party purposes. I now come to the issues relating to the amendments. Mr Spirtzis has also mentioned the northern road axis and I have to make a point that the 50 to 60 km that have been implemented as parts of the BOAK have all been done with the main responsibility of the PASOK governments. I have to tell you this with full knowledge, because 2012 was the latest parts auctions of the BOAK that took place. Since '12, there hasn't been any auctions since. It is disgraceful eight years that a BOAK section has not been auctioned. And of course, since 1913, there has been the Development Agency of Crete. And of course there was the cooperation government, the SYRIZA government five years. Is there anyone who has no responsibility? But here we have to see how problems and inertia are recycled. So while there were ripe sections and there was a design, Mr. Spirtzi was selected in 2015 a new method that he wants to apply. This new method basically rocked the time and reached 2019-2020 to have done nothing. New Democracy's coming. What's he doing a year now? Nothing. He's investing in a new model. So he first told us in the programming statements. And this new model will take time and come after a significant time to say nothing has happened. However, we do not see the new model coming, but with an amendment, which is politically appropriate, comes to make a different arrangement for the Ministry's organization in Crete than it does in the rest of the country. And while in the rest of the country it says and has, let us say, a recital - whether or not we agree - that I am abolishing the special services but that I do on the project site to oversee the works of the Ministry of Infrastructure, in Crete their employees are sending them to the OPC, which is an anonymous company, which could and can - have the potential - to assist the Ministry's work through a programming contract, but cannot replace the public. It's just things: OAS can play a decisive role in the development of Crete, but as a partner, not as a substitute for the Ministry and the State. This is completely wrong, completely outside our logic. We also say that today we cannot, for example, hold a meeting of the OECD City Council and determine public matters. These are decided by public bodies, public authorities. We therefore have an opposition and a political and organisational one, but - as I analysed this morning - and legislation. They cannot declare good legislation as the supreme advantage of the governance that would come from the New Democracy in discussing the draft law and then not apply what they have voted on. Where and until there is an amendment to the Agency of the Ministry of Infrastructure not by a Presidential Decree or an amendment to the Presidential Decree, as provided for in the Act, in order to pass through the Council of State and is it by means of an amendment of late, without consultation, to an unrelated bill which has not come to the committee to be discussed? All this is more than suspicious. And I don't stop being suspicious. I am well aware of the intentions and we will show how they will be unfolded and with specific interests that they want to serve through this new provision that they propose. The same applies to the provision of Mr Aygeakis, who has not spoken to the Iraqi people about the provision of the Ministry of Infrastructure. Does he agree with the provision of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which degrades Heraklion and sends it to the tartars, or is it in exchange for going through the amendment he wants? To come and answer us, because the amendment tabled by Mr Aggenakis concerns major issues which must of course be discussed, but that must be done within the framework of the rules which should also apply in an unsuspecting period, not before some elections or before certain decisions to amend the laws. Inadmissible! We are voting against both amendments. Both amendments express the political perception that does not want political and government decisions to be taken under the laws, as required by the Constitution. It is in the - within introductory - 'new', if I can say so, a perception that comes back and says that the laws are adapted to the preconceived decisions. That's what this is! Some decisions are taken and when they conflict with laws and regularity, with the regime, we amend the regime in force, the normality and the legislative provision. These things cannot be accepted by us under no circumstances. And, of course, I come to the amendment that we have tabled, which concerns the fair treatment of workers. It is unacceptable that since 2015, the workers are not primary beneficiaries of the property of the company in which they have been working, which they are due to and to which they are unpaid. It is unacceptable that the banks that have insisted and forced them to be first-timers should be privatised. The Minister must accept at least today - and regardless of what is to be decided on as a permanent status in the Banking Code, regardless of what will come next - the end of the amendment, the known provision, which says that the priority status of employees is applicable in cases where the procedure was initiated during the period when the legally unequivocal primary beneficiaries of the liquidation were workers. So we're talking about the period before 2015. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This, Minister, has no reason to refer it to the code. You must accept it and include it in this bill as a fair treatment for workers. Finally, I have to say that the two amendments, which are too late, contain important provisions which have been consulted and communicated, and in this sense we are entering the debate and which we consider to be political in terms of content. They're completely different than the others. In the morning I made a position in relation to developments. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that developments will follow us in the next few months. What we need to do is to example from the positive examples and not to go on with the negative ones. Here too, in the debate on this bill you must withdraw, Minister, both amendments and do not accept them. There must be someone to say 'Mr. Ministers, a bill is coming'. Mr. Aggenakis has announced a bill for the next few days. So why not this? And so is the Ministry of Infrastructure. One must say 'until here'. In the light of the reform, of course, it is difficult to hear a Minister say so, and it is not his responsibility. Because it is indeed the responsible institutions, such as the Secretary-General of the Government or others. But it is not possible to continue this whole situation, to pass laws on good law and then to break them coldly in the spirit and in the context of the service of political purposes. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Before we move on to the speakers and to complete the bill, I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, if any of the rapporteurs want to give a second thought.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u200	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u201	He spoke many times, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u202	All right, Mr. Heta. I imagine that the rest of the rapporteurs will now be asked to speak. Minister, would you like to place yourself before I give the floor to the next speaker?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u203	Yes, Mr. President. For the economy of the debate and for the information of the honourable rapporteurs and Members of the House, I would like to inform you of the amendments which will be accepted. You are aware, therefore, that the ministerial amendments are accepted. With regard to the amendments tabled and which have some similar content, I have to say: on the one hand, an amendment was tabled from the Change Movement, from Mrs Giannakopoulou, Mr Katrin, Mr Mulkiotis, Mr Kastanides, who is about the same on the other side as Mr Pafile, Mrs Konnaka and Mr Katsoti. So as far as these amendments are concerned, I think that Mr Kegeroglu gave the answer earlier. There is an imminent reform of the Banking Code with regard to the specific issue on which you focus the debate. You, Mr Kegeroglu, know that just a few days ago I answered a timely question from the MP of Mera25 Mr Arsenis and more or less the views have been formulated. However, you realise that such a legislative initiative must obviously be in line with any changes to the bankruptcy code, which will come very soon. As far as the other amendment is concerned, the amendment under a general number 373 and a specialist 27 tabled by the JRC's colleagues is concerned, it concerns another ministry. You realise that the debate will be postponed there. I would like to say that due to the fact that a great deal of consultation was held on Mr Javarra's amendment, and we believe that he is right on the basis and on her request, it is accepted. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Minister. Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis has the floor now from the Radical Left coalition. Here, Mr. Saraciotis, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u205	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand and respect the willingness not to deviate from the debate on the bill, as the House and the Minister called for during the debate on 25 June. I fear, however, that this kind of admonition should be directed primarily to the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Adoni Georgiades, who, after all, from this Step last Monday in a timely debate of seven SYRIZA Members, stressed that the House should not be removed from the agenda. Therefore, I too, being so motivated by the saying of my colleague, Mr Minister, but above all by the need for the House to safeguard its justice and officials from the ombudsman in other respects of the fundamental principles and values of Western European civilization, in which he sometimes swears, I cannot fail to place myself on it. A threat to an official of justice in a favoured country would constitute not only a complete violation of all concepts of independence of justice, but also a threat to the universal reaction of the defendant to the face of the judiciary and, indeed, when this is done by a representative of the executive, a minister of government, who unannounces threats to the imprisonment of a prosecutor and even a public prosecutor who has been elected twice to his post and handles the most serious cases of scandal and the break-up of public money that have cost the Greek people millions of euros. It seems, however, that there is now a tradition of intervention in the work of judges on the part of the ministers of the New Democracy. Another order of intervention, I would remind you, has recently been taken by the State Secretary of State at Prime Minister Scorcho, when she criticised the appeal of the main prosecutor in the trial of the murder of Topalude, just hours before the decision was adopted, and has even left her insinuation of legal populism and without forgetting to file complaints with prosecutors by politicians and their systematic confiscation by specific media. Without a distinction of powers, as I heard a colleague from the New Democracy, society is turning towards totalitarianity. That is a view to which I can only go. Except that familiarity with the Montesquieu authorities must be started by the ministers of the New Democracy. The above are incidents that create an explosive atmosphere and an unpleasant political environment that revives the most bad days of your story. They are incidents which need strong intervention primarily on the part of the Ministry of Justice's political leadership and therefore on the part of all Parliament's wings, since all Members' positions and speeches have concluded that justice must be safeguarded by everyone as an eyewitness. And you have a duty, Minister, to do so, as your predecessors have already done. I am reading points from the article by the former Minister of Justice, Mr Rupakiotis, in the "EFYMERIDA of the STATUS" on 26 June and mentioning, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the former Minister of the Tripartite Government: "Those that I am trying to highlight, in fact, is the unprecedented climate of zombies with successive threats, even by tabling presses, pressing and slandering comments by politicians and actors - known media - at the expense of the Prosecutor of Eleni Tuloupakis, elected by value by the competent judicial body and co-workers of the Prosecutors." And it continues: "This problem is not small and let it not be avoided by judicial associations, lawyers, academics, lawyers and journalists. It is not only infringing - if it were the first time - the shattered independence of justice, but they are literally catching a prosecutor from the neck, because he is able to withstand and exclusively on the basis of the law, he is investigating a grievous and multi-faceted case. Ladies and gentlemen, I, but above all the officials of justice, expect the Minister of Justice's clear disapproval of these statements. Any other reaction will exacerbate already maximised reflection and at least recommend political ostrichism. Let us stop creating feelings of revulsion for citizens towards politics and let us all take the blame. Another issue affecting the public about the legal sense is the question of money directed through opaque procedures and without the existence of objective criteria for the media. It is a question of democracy, which concerns public opinion, as it hears of glossy sums which have been directed at friends who are close to the media government, while society itself experiences the first unfavourable economic consequences of pandemic, which, it seems, will worsen the next time. And if you are not moved and dislike the criticism you are being made by the citizens and the Opportunities for these opaque procedures by which you distribute public money, respond to the objections of your friendly media, such as "KATHMERINI", which constantly asks you not to make the amounts given public. Of course, the same newspaper has revealed days ago and classified documents which give rise to serious evidence of mismanagement and possible financial irregularities in projects carried out by the Ministry of Migration Policy, following on from what is stated in the report by the National Public Procurement Authority, namely that the use of acts of legislative content constitutes a fragmentary legal regime, which undermines the transparency of public procurement. It seems that issues of transparency and the maintenance of legality are not a priority for the Ministry of Justice. The bill now. I would be unfair if I were not to mention the effort that it had started over the previous government, in 2018 and is continuing today and to which the plenary of the Court of Auditors has contributed. And when the High Court's plenary with this highly qualified opinion, it is essential that its proposals be effectively drafted by the political system. I will not go any further into the background of the broad consensus that characterised the debate at all stages of the process before, since the Minister responsible first welcomed the attitude of the opposition parties and the Civilian Opposition Party. In conclusion, I should like to stress once again that we must all stand up to the circumstances, always remembering the reason why the citizens trusted us, doing the role of institutional guarantor of the democratic culture, while at the same time preserving the credibility of the political system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr. Saraciotis. Mr. Kamines has the floor on the side of the Change Movement for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days it has been like living in some of the worst moments of our political system of the post-multiple era. A conversation between a Minister and a private entrepreneur came in the light of publicity days ago, and we are told that the businessman is being blackmailed by a minister. Speaking with the other Minister abroad, he intercepts the conversation. This Minister is committed to calling the prosecutor for corruption - and with an unacceptable language - to tell her what to do. And during the conversation it exchanges messages rather with factors of justice and information is provided from files, which are normally covered by the secrecy of the process. That is a first dose of this possibly to be informed in the future. Now I mention it because you're the Minister of Justice. You are the one who, on behalf of the executive, has a duty to be vigilant in order to ensure that the conclusions which will sometime be drawn are able to take some legislative amendments, as far as possible, to heal what is happening. I will once again insist on mediation, Minister. You brought it here months ago. It was a very important first step. I fear, however, that mediation has even been introduced in the small area that has been established, but is not being implemented. You should, Minister, publish the mediation. Citizens should learn that they can just resort to this process and save money, mental suffering and time. There you should find imaginable ways to inform the public of this alternative way of resolving disputes. I would like to highlight some of the issues raised by the legislation. In the last three years we have been repeatedly condemned by the Court of Justice in Strasbourg not for the bad conditions in prisons - we are avoiding convictions, because the process of friendly settlement is being followed and the state is simply paying - we are condemned for the lack of effective legal aid for the restoration and lifting of the insulting rights of detainees who have been subject to bad conditions. This, in cooperation with the relevant Ministry of Civil Protection, must be immediately regulated, Minister. There's a study at your Ministry. I have pointed this out to the committee responsible for monitoring the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Justice. You are setting up special chambers for civil and administrative courts in order to ensure that the courts are disintegrated as far as possible. But there is also the problem of prison congestion, which concerns you. What are we going to do with the institution of social work, Minister? You inhibited him on the grounds that it was not correctly applied. I think that almost a year after the suspension you should bring us a bill where we will see it implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u208	I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u209	All right, we'll wait for it. I'll be talking again about the prisons. There is a ministerial decision of 2016 by one of your predecessors - I don't know who it was - on the subject of the financial control of detention stores by Commissioners of the Court of Auditors. Commissioners were appointed to carry out regular and extraordinary checks in the detention stores in the country. It never was - never - in prisons. There have been few checks, and from there on, nothing else. The detention shops are black holes with regard to the financial situation and what happens in there. You have the tool to do that now. Statistical service is also established in the Ministry of Justice. It is an important step. But the figures should not only be numerical, but also quantitative. I'll get you some examples. In the case of criminal courts, public prosecutors and judges, it would be crucial to keep records of the type of convictions re-issued, for the amount of penalties, the nature of the offences, the application of the institution of electronic surveillance, the rate of the imposition of provisional detention, the number of re-issued persons, so that there is also a size for recurring. You should - I think - look much more, much better at the elements you keep and see how you can enrich them, so that we have a more effective anti-crime policy. Finally, I would like to plead for the role of the Independent Public Procurement Authority as an amicus curiae. The truth is that in its founding law, the independent authority in other words contains the opportunity to intervene. That's right. I think the Court of Auditors wanted it to be in its own law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u210	You say the self-evident thing that we're trying to convince this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u211	Let's repeat it. That is the least we can do, because the institution of amicus curiae is of great importance. I will conclude with one comment. You are talking about Parliament's ability, in fact, to ask the Court of Auditors to prioritise some of the checks it is planning for next year. Of course, a provision should be incorporated into the Rules of Procedure of the House because of the autonomy of the House. But we must also take care of the phrase here. The House can't ask. When the House asks, we're talking about a system of ruling parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u212	We changed it. He's suggesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u213	I'm glad to hear that. I hope the bill containing a lot of positive things is a good idea. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr. Kamine. In the parliamentary order, the rapporteurs and the special speakers will start for four minutes each. Mr. Kyranakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. I think that, in conclusion with the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Justice on the Court of Auditors, the first conclusion is that the majority of the provisions have received a positive response and a broad acceptance. And we are not afraid to recognise that the majority of the provisions which come from the Legislative Committee, which was created by Mr Sarma's previous government of President-in-Office, who is the current President of the Court of Auditors, are in the right direction. From there on, much was said about the proper legislature, about the good legislature and the principles of good legislature, which were applied to a large extent by the Minister and his staff in the original form of the bill. In fact, we are very pleased that the bill has been successfully passed by the new CEN. We believe, Minister, that we should not be satisfied with this practice of the unrelated amendments, which continue and come. And I say this as a representative of the majority with full knowledge of the technical difficulties and needs that arise from time to time and know that it is not your responsibility. In fact, you have been apologised several times to colleagues, rapporteurs and special speakers from the other parties for not coming in time. That is why I would like, Minister, to reinstate a proposal which I have made - I think, Mr President, you were present - to the Committee on Constitutional Revision, which in a very simple way, in a simple way, can allow us as a Parliament to discuss and vote for amendments to an existing law on its own, that is to say, to stop bringing in provisions in texts of laws which have other objects, in compliance with the letter of the Constitution and the prohibition of Articles 73 and 74 that do not allow inappropriate amendments to come and be tabled. All governments and all parties have done this practice. I think that the political support we want to give as a majority in this bill should not be seen as acceptance of such practices. So when an appropriate time and ground is found, Minister, I invite you as Minister of Justice to take an initiative with the President of Parliament and to make some changes to the Rules of Procedure of the House so that we can discuss the substance of the changes, the substance of the amendments. Because every time, even if an appropriate amendment comes, which regulates something fair, which concerns society and calls for a solution, we take as parties, whether majority or minority, only to the types, whether it has come in due course, whether it has come as an unrelated amendment, whether it has come under the right procedure or not. For example, today, there have been legislative improvements of 11 of which concerned the amendment of the Ministry of Sports. This does not allow the Members of all the parties, but also the people who are watching us, to be fully aware of what is changing and how. I urge you, Minister, to take the initiative in this regard and to be able at last to move towards a transparent parliamentary dialogue. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President, with two brief references to the NOVARTIS case, to which the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Xanthopoulou, referred in his prototype, although it is not the subject of our bill. Mr Xanthopoulou - and I refer to your colleagues in the SYRIZA - I agree with you that after the outcome of American justice, following the extrajudicial compromise, Greece must also claim the amount involved in it. In the fifth paragraph, Greece does not say what you said. It does not say what your colleagues from SYRIZA have said. It describes exactly what it means by the phrase 'foresign officials' and refers to workers and staff of hospitals and clinics. So, with the conclusion of American justice, there is absolutely no reference to politicians. What else must be done to accept in this Chamber, so that we can accept in this House that we cannot hunt witches? There is not a single word in the U.S. junction, which states nothing at all about politicians. The corruption prosecutor, instead, here in Greece, instead of investigating exactly what you said and what your colleagues tell SYRIZA and other parties say, instead of investigating three prosecutors, who have been investigating the case for three and a half years instead of investigating the officials of the clinics and hospital staff and doctors and all the recipients of a feeder account of EUR 218,000 from Switzerland, continue and are referring to political opponents. Instead of chasing people who have proved to have transferred to their account and could make money to the Greek State, so that the Greek citizen knows, who sees us that even partly justice was attributed to them, bad practices which are reflected in the finding did nothing at all. You again blame the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u216	Mr. Cyranaki, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u217	I shall conclude, Mr President, by repeating what I said at the first plenary session. Clearance is needed in the field of justice. In order to be clear, the Justice Ministers must do exactly what Mr Tsiaras has done. When you abdicate him again and again, asking answers to questions he doesn't know and doesn't have to know, the Minister of Justice takes distances. These distances by being away from the judges and prosecutors, we are close by supporting their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u218	On behalf of SYRIZA, Mr. Xanthiopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u219	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I apologise to my fellow Members for being out of line with the parliamentary order beforehand. I was annoyed, but I was upset because right now we are going to engrave a Civic Opposition and a government to translate paragraph 5 of the practical compromise of the US State with "NOVARTIS" if the word "office" means the governmental or rural doctor of the health centre or health centre. That's why we're fighting now. The time will come when responsibilities will be shared. As far as the substance of the meeting is concerned, Minister, we spoke with Mr Kastanidis's speech on 343 and said that the House would ask the Court of Auditors to investigate certain cases and, indeed, it is useful that there should be an increased majority in decisions not to be considered as a government majority marking the Court of Auditors' actions. That's not what we heard, and it has to be in the Ministry's sights and scanner. Secondly, we had objected to the provision of 363, which basically holds, as was not due, the judges of military justice active. It is not convincing to hear from the Minister that for so long the law has not been implemented, and that is exactly what gives us the right to think about photography. And with this reference I come to the amendment by Mr Aygeakis, who comes to the National Representation and tells us that 'I in a week or ten days, will bring in a law on the sports issues of the country', bringing an amendment, which includes very specific issues. Are we entitled to be suspicious? We have to be suspicious, not rightful. We have to be suspicious and I will be very specific. It says it in the rapporteur's report: 'It broadens, increases the degree of procedural maturity of the referral and others'. In other words, a man who had a coma with the irrevocable charge gives him the opportunity to get the finale, which for non-legislatives means that he will be referred back, to the Arena Ice with an unknown time of integration, this man, although convicted to two degrees, will be able to be in the administration of sports clubs. Who is covered by Mr Augorakis and by the silence of whom is the Minister forced to cover? Is it possible to extend this loose end and these people can go and run the unions? There's a coma with the referees. In other words, it is not possible for the arbitrator, who seeks to mix trade unions, to continue to arbitrate. These are basic assumptions. It's a greenhouse of fair trade. What Mr. Aeggeakis is coming and suggesting is things that the sports community has devoured and, on the contrary, Mr. Aiggeakis insists on bringing them back to the forefront. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'll be very brief. It makes an improvement and adds to the archery and sea skiing of the airstrikes. We will have no objections, but this problem is a mismanagement. And in the next arrangement, what does he actually do? Those who are merchants, those who live, that is, from the marketing and manufacture of sports goods, enable them to get into the game. I mean, the one who sells out-of-carriers will run a sea ski club. Do you understand what things we're talking about? So, should we not set a limit? You're liberal. Good. The money's going to be released. Good. But it's illegal, that thing. It is not possible in the name of money circulation to destroy any rule, to destroy any limit. In Article 2, what would that say if it were a month ago and two months ago before he could participate in the administration? Isn't it right that our minds go to colleges? Isn't it right that our minds go to consensuals under the table? Don't you photograph people who are ready to take the next step for the administration of federations? In other words, all this amendment must be withdrawn, firstly, for reasons of respect for the legislative initiative which the government itself is going to take. It's an emblematic solution. She's shouting, so that she serves specific options and you have to withdraw it. Secondly, these arrangements have found the whole of counterpopulation. Mr President, I should like to conclude by saying that the legislative initiative you have taken with regard to the proposals for the plenary session of the lawyers, Mr President, speaks of an unpaid mortgage. I remind you - you know - that the unpaid are about forty, the rest are three hundred fifty. In other words, the large volume of lawyers is practically left out of this arrangement, because the essentials which are unpaid public property are managed and you have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u220	Renewals are to be paid. You understand that. That's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u221	Yes, that's right. I understand that very well, but this is also a equality between colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u222	Mr. Blondopoulos, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u223	I'm done, Mr. President. As regards the amendments by Mr Karamanlis and Mr Lebanon, we are voting against them, as it is clear. You've recommended them and we're across the street. And finally, Mr President, what about the abolition of the special provisions for coronary products? So we live in a parallel universe? We live in a parallel legal situation? If the country comes back, you must abolish these provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, too. Ms. Giannakopoulou, on behalf of the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u225	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in my second speech, I will not talk about the body, about the substance of the bill. I think we've placed ourselves thoroughly. Of course, we have said in every way that we are in favour of the codification and optimisation of legislation, concerning the administration of justice and the functioning of the Court of Auditors. There will, of course, be an exception which we spoke about both at the committee meeting and on Article 363. I have to say, Minister, that we are not convinced of your answer. This extension, which is well given by evil, does not help the fact that it concerns very specific persons and creates reasonable questions. You will allow me to speak in the time of my secondary speech on the issue of amendments, except for the amendment you bring to the Ministry of Justice, which has something to do with the Ministry of Justice and the bill after all. There's relevance. So there is a relevance and, yes, it is positive, as I said to you, it is upon consensus and is actually making acceptable requests to the plenary of the lawyers of all of Greece, reasonable requests and we are positive. However, all the other amendments - there is a slight exception to the amendment by the Ministry of the Interior that is in the short term - are actually being tampered with - and the way in which you bring them and you are the depositary, Mr Minister, of good legislation - that is the concept of an official state. You introduced it into the concept of good legislation. You went out - not personally, your Government - the New Democracy was out on transparent grounds and denounced the way the previous government operated. Will you finally stop it? It is to the credit of Mr Kyranakis, who said in essence and confessed that this logic is not in the right direction, and we have all understood and understood yours, if you like, embarrassed at this kind of logic. If we really want to be honest, yes, coming late and pointless amendments is a timeless, political crime, if you like. But will it ever stop, Minister? Will you stop it? So as far as the long-term amendment of the Ministry of the Interior is concerned, we are essentially positive about the provisions and what it wants to solve. Of course, we must admit that, rather than actually force the ministers to place the secretaries in their Ministries in good time, you prefer to change the legislative framework which provides for the existence of a secretary responsible for selecting heads. You understand the objections are very reasonable here. For the amendment concerning the Ministry of Sport, I think it was clear that our parliamentary representative, Mr Kegeroglu, and clearly we are telling you that this amendment is a surprise, latent, unrelated to the specific draft law brought by the Ministry of Justice, and the Minister himself today came and confessed to the Greek Parliament that a bill will come shortly! What's the precursor, Minister? No convincing answer was given. As far as the subject of the amendment concerning the Ministry of Public Works is concerned, the Ministry of Public Works, and here there has been no dialogue, as has been the case over time. There has been no substantiated recommendation from the department of the Ministry responsible, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. The explanatory statement on such a significant change, if you wish, as it concerns a very significant change in the establishment plan, which will affect both quantitatively and qualitatively the functioning of the Ministry, is exhausted in four lines. That is the explanatory statement, Minister. That's the good legacy. This is what this government is, unfortunately, doing. And, of course, there are gaps with adverse results both on employment issues and on an operational level. These are very serious and we are, of course, negative in this amendment too. And I'll close by insisting. The Change Movement will take the lead and insist, until finally your Government implements it and do it. We tabled an amendment, which essentially relates to the case of the employees of "ELEVROTYPIA", the amendment of the relevant provisions that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government had brought in 2015 and 2018 and which makes it difficult for workers and their families to be classified as regards the Banking Code. In other words, workers are being put after the public and mainly after the banks. That's what we told you, we told you and we won't stop telling you. It is unfair, inhuman, unacceptable, anti-grassroots and you must change it. You cannot, Minister, because it concerns your ministry and the substance of justice, essentially wash your hands against such a wrong provision. It should therefore be changed. Here we will also be in the debate on the bankruptcy code to fight to change this unacceptable provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. On behalf of the Communist Party of Greece Mrs Konnakka has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think you will allow me to begin with the incomplete explanation that you have made of the rejection of the JRC's amendments and, above all, of the fact that, in the Ministry of Justice bill, we are still talking about the unacceptable amendment made by the Ministry of Sports, which unbundling letters from those involved in the management of professional sport. I think you throw the ball at the platform and avoid discussing and putting yourself in essence on the issue that has been very busy and this debate. Of course, there were no other parties that were cut and many representatives of the other parties dedicated much of their speeches to the famous list of Petsa and to transparency and corruption. It seems that what is scary is to get the laundry of all the governments out in the forum, and that is why you are avoiding being placed in the essence of whether or not there should be control over these costs and, of course, what I think all of you are, that is to say, whether these messages relating to the protection of public health should be reproduced for free or whether they should also be traded. You didn't place yourself. We will come back to this issue. Similarly, for the amendment concerning employee employees, it is a very unfair provision that has come and has not been corrected by the SYRIZA Government and remains. We do not think that this should remain and cover only the cases of workers who have claims before 2016, but in total this unjust situation, which has left workers exposed to being satisfied after the banks, must be restored. You understand that there is no possibility of protecting them. Mr Minister, with regard to the other amendments, I will be brief. It is not possible, of course, to cover everything in the Sports Ministry's amendment. I'm not going to talk about it. Our spokesman Manolis Synthrakis was mentioned in detail. We agree that he should retire. The amendment by the Ministry of Interior to a large extent concerns issues that have been created in the municipalities with KALIKARATIS, but above all with the policy that has been pursued over recent years, in order to effectively mock the state funding to the municipalities. So, what are you doing? You are taking responsibility for the municipalities, without there being the corresponding funds to enable these issues to be dealt with adequately. From this point of view, and the extension of time limits for children's stations does not solve the problem if they are not accompanied by an increase in funding on the part of the State, and if they are not actually supported by the State itself, in order to resolve these serious issues, which are of course also about the suitability of the buildings of children's stations. As long as you leave these, you open streets to close children’s stations, opening a splendid field for the private sector. Similarly, for the construction services of municipalities, you do not make decisions to provide permanent staff with the technical services, but with the well-known pattern that subscribing does not allow for the proper treatment of the works, you are able to make a decision by the mayor if it is found that the failure to cover these services - which is to be seen with the existing subscribing - is to be given to the various development tools, to the public limited companies. It's a well-known project. The same logic is the amendment of the Ministry of Infrastructure, since they essentially confer on the public limited liability company the status of civil servants with a dowry, without actually guaranteeing their subsequent work. Our MP Manolis Synthrakis referred to it, and I don't have the time to say about it. We shall vote against it because we do not agree with this provision. You open up various roads, Minister, the possibility of sub-funding the private sector, and you put this essentially on the issues of the Ministry of Justice. We disagree with the question that it is actually possible for PPPs to proceed with building judicial buildings and, indeed, allowing the use of the projecter, the project contractor, for a longer period of time. We consider it problematic. I am sure that the creation of legal buildings will have to go ahead, but not through the granting of these to the private sector. And I close with the article, which I mentioned in my protagonist on the dangerous road, in our view, which you are opening up with the question of workers to non-profit legal persons dealing with culture and the environment as you say. For us it is unacceptable to consider, if you wish, that workers should be allowed to remain unpaid and that there should be no effective means of pressure - because a weapon in the hands of the workers, a means of pressure is the refuge in the criminal courts - and all that is said to be in the interests of culture. I do not know which culture tolerates workers' payout, but we are concerned and, in particular, it has made us an astonishing impression that SYRIZA's rapporteur has actually come to say that it is all right, let us finally finish with such openness in labour disputes, that they are referred to the criminal courts, while it is a civil dispute, showing and what your intentions are, that what is bothering you is that the workers should have in their hands to press, claim their self-defence, their entrepreneurial claims, their claims towards the ever-increasing employers who are able to blackmail them and be drawn to pay off. That is why it is clear from your work that a justice which is hostile to the workers and the peoples is being shaped in every way, while you are caring for business groups in every way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u228	Mr. Hetas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u229	Thank you very much, Mr President. You know that I have a great desire to deal with other issues that have been heard today, but I promise I will deal only with the bill and the amendments. Besides, it is almost daily our contact, communication and speeches at the National Representation, so we will have a chance to talk about them in the next few days. So I will not go into anything that is irrelevant, although I really want to get into this, but I will not, Mr President. I promise. Minister, you will not answer, nor will you be justified, nor will you give an explanation, but I ask you one question. I do not understand exactly what part it serves or what part it plays within that government. You will allow me as a man I have served twenty-seven years in the field of sport to have a particular sensitivity to this part. You must understand - and you, Minister, or your Government - that Mr Augakis is the Deputy Minister of Sports of Greece, does not serve any specific interests, does not serve any specific groups, and he should understand that he has succeeded within this period of running Greek sport to turn everyone - other than a particular group - against him, with great success. In other words, today, the Deputy Minister of Sport in an unrelated bill - we are talking about the Court of Auditors and about justice - has come to say that it is an expression - like the thief to pass an amendment on matters that are very serious, which should normally be tabled to the 'DIAGY', to put down a bill, to discuss and vote or to vote against it, rather than to bring it to an amendment, for which, Minister, I have learned that it has come to the very high levels of government, not just the party, and that they have been very disturbed by what Mr Augarians has brought. So what? Convicted actors, Mr President - so it started - those who have been convicted to be able to run groups until this decision is irrevocable. Awesome! So until he goes to stage three, Ice Arrow. And, of course, after the racing he got up, he had to get it back or improve it somehow. Because, Mr President and Minister, it was clearly said here - thank God that we should read - that it should be irrevocable and not final as required by the current provision. In other words, a person who had been convicted and, secondly, continues to be in command, Mr President, a group and will have the right to run a group or to be a group. We're not doing this, we're challenging society. Then we have no doubt or wonder why we have violence on the part of sport, because we are causing the world to suffer from these inequality. He then came to tell us "sent" about the felony - again well! - that is, it does not even have to go to trial, Mr President, with irrevocable will it stops having any contact, but the flood - and I address you, Minister, and your partners - leaves it open. And for the flood it says “to the extent of a crime by irrevocable judgment.” There we will wait, in the flood, and we know very well that many of the heavy cases that afflict Greek sport are going through as a misdemeanor. And we come today to say this thing in the House and people hear! And it comes, of course, and says 'until an exonerating decision is adopted' in its legislative systems, Mr President, and it is something that saves it 'until an exoneration decision'. These are not serious things, Mr President: neither the attempt to get us to sleep by being able to convicted - if any, the justice of those who are saying - continue in their duties and run teams, but not by a flood. I don't understand that. And how? In the thieves, in the zuca, with an amendment I come to the House, I get five minutes and I'm leaving! We don't legislate like that. As regards, Minister, the other amendments to make a reference to your Ministry of Justice. Lawyers will issue certificates for property? You're substituting civil servants, that is, if I understand. And who would be responsible if there were any mistakes? Who will be responsible for this matter? And what's that for? Because the banks are in a hurry, so can we hurry up and help the lawyers? No, you say. My mind's gonna go there, too. You also exclude the criminal liability of those representing legal persons of a non-profit nature who do not pay the wages of their employees. Why are you doing this? Of course, we do not agree with that, but answer us. As far as the Transport Ministry's amendment is concerned, I shall only make one comment, Mr President, and I shall end. You remove public works services in regions that are very critical. That is why I say that what we are doing is also to relate to the topical and urgent subject. We are now abolishing the region in Evros, leaving the region in its luck, making it difficult to build projects in the most sensitive areas, in Evros and in the northern and southern Aegean. That's from us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u230	Thank you. Mrs Bakadima has the floor on behalf of Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are called upon to put on late-term amendments, with the exception of your amendment, Minister, on which you have already informed us during the committee's meetings - you have told us that there will also be a number of amendments - and the Ministry of the Interior which was in time, even though they are not related to the subject matter. The others have just been tabled at the last minute, with the exception of the parliamentary amendment by Mr Javarra, which also concerns part of the Ministry of Justice, although it concerns your own Ministry, so it is related to the bill. The other two, however, were tabled at the last minute and we sincerely wonder what purposes they come to serve and cover. Of the four amendments I will be voting for very briefly, to be within the time too, in the amendment by the Ministry of Sports, Mr Aygeakis, and particularly in relation to the obstacles. We read - the hindrances for shareholders of a sports anonymous company only if they are sentenced to an irrevocable judgment. That is what my colleagues have said before me. For the period until the final judgment has been delivered and there is a final conviction that nothing really changes, as far as I understand it. It shall continue and remain in place of the shareholder who is being examined. Unfortunately, we also consider that we are talking about a "photography" and completely unclear amendment, which comes to favour once again the domestic oligarchy that engenders Greek sport by turning purely fanatical groups into a fan army. That is why we are going to vote against it. We wonder why Augeias who admitted he would come in the next time bill of his own jurisdiction, was raped so much and could not wait to testify in his own bill. Very briefly, I should also like to talk about the amendment from the Ministry of Infrastructure. With this we have the abolition of special public works services, on the grounds once again of the Ministry of Infrastructure the malfunction due to subsidization. We believe that it is a matter which cannot be legislated in the form of an amendment, let alone an unrelated draft law. We all know that it is expected that a bill on the planning of the Ministry of Infrastructure will come next year. Mr Karamanlis could expect to bring it back then so that we can discuss it and decide which of us would like to support it. We shall vote against this amendment. To conclude, I too should like to point out that we cannot continue and agree, although it is a bad practice that has been implemented and all the previous years, to legislate with amendments that come last minute on such serious issues without having the opportunity to discuss their substance and eventually pass on to the press and to what we can do in the short time we have to mention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, too. Mr. Chiaras has the floor, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u233	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I am very much at the Step in my final speech just before the end of the vote by this House on a bill that enabled us to discuss thoroughly and, of course, listen to many different opinions. I do not have much to say in relation to all that, I think, have had the opportunity and the opportunity to analyse in previous speeches. However, the intensity with which a criticism is being made of good legislature, I think it is excessive. Firstly, because this draft law is the first of which has passed all the right procedures for the good legislature that is essentially approved, and indeed the credits of the new CENE and, of course, because all the time and time limits and all the procedures laid down by the good legislature have been respected. The fact that there were some amendments at the last minute, as you say, is well founded. But do you want to remember what was happening in the recent past, Mr. Blondopoulos? I think we're wronging ourselves when this conversation is going on with that tension. I will not talk about whether the political content and, more generally, the content of the amendments is acceptable to the House or not, but I will tell you about the comparison that each of us has to make with a procedure which was given up to the recent past and which we know more or less of what logic was moving and what issues it has raised. This draft law, in addition to its adoption, is the first draft law that even gets the best possible rating, the 'congratulations' by the committee for the assessment of the quality of the legislation. It has been approved by the Court of Auditors and has been approved by the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State. On Thursday, which passed us, it was approved by the Ice Bay plenary on the special sections. Of course, they are talking about cases of the multi-stakeholder over two hundred and fifty thousand, which is right, but still this comment in a way could play no role and have no significance, because the conditions and conditions of the establishment of these new sections are left to the administrations of the courts. So it's a completely internal matter. From there, however, ladies and gentlemen, I think that even in the part of the amendments, for which I have apologized for the delay in tabling our amendment, this House has been aware almost at the very first moment, that is to say, of the fact that I have informed you. Indeed, the specific arrangements, for one of which Mr Hetas criticised earlier, are decisions of the plenary session of the lawyers. The certificate that will be issued, to say otherwise, needs to be made aware of how facilitated the procedure and operation of the mortgages and how much time we will shorten. If you knew what the reality is in many mortgages in the country, where the citizens are waiting for weeks or months to get a certificate, I imagine that with far greater ease you would come to support this regulation. Of course, the Plenary Assembly of the Bar Associations has also proposed other provisions and other amendments. I am personally committed to this, and I say it from the Step of the Greek Parliament that in the next bill we will see to it that we adopt them, incorporate them so that they can be voted on. Just for reasons of pure economics and not to table an amendment with unlimited articles, we had to limit ourselves to a reasonable number which at the moment gave us the opportunity to take this legislative initiative. There's a review of the special sections. I do not know how many times I have to say the same or perhaps repeat the same thing. Ladies and gentlemen, the special sections will help at this particular moment in time in the country's effort to regain its credibility, strengthen competition and initiate procedures more quickly. I respect the different ideological viewpoint. I get it, I get it. It has nothing to do with what some people claim we want to quantify them, some want to help them and we do not help Greek citizens. All this in an imaginary logic and not in the logic adopted by anyone, in my opinion, who comes to govern the country with the people's mandate. And I say it once again, because, Mr Xanthopoulou, it has been repeated by your colleagues. And I don't really know, do I have to say the same thing again? In 2018 with Law 4529 the previous government for the whole country made a single section specialising in competition law, Athens, the Athens Court of First Instance. We come to where most of the cases, in Athens and Thessaloniki, come to the courts and tribunals to make special classes, since the administrations of the courts decide. It's not mandatory. It's possible. Why did we stay in these departments and not in others? Because on the basis of what is essentially the 'Doing Business', Mr Heta, and the 'European Justice Scoreboard', the establishment of these departments increases the quality of justice in the country and strengthens competition. There was no other kind of criterion. Greece will benefit from the potential functioning of these departments and at a real level, since it will strengthen competition, by sending out a message of seriousness both inside and outside, but also at institutional European level, because the quality and the way justice works in Greece will be upgraded. So there was no such thing as that either. I want to assure you, Mr. Xanthopoulou and Mrs. Giannakopoulou, why you insist on Article 363, that there is nothing photography. I absolutely assure you. It is the non-completion of an article that was revised in the Constitutional Review, since we do not yet have the law implementing, which must enable the military judges and the political judges to actually be able to do so at the same time. There's nothing hidden, there's nothing photographic, it's not about any completely nominal human or human beings. I want to assure you of that. And don't tell me it was a lot of time, because the constitutional review did not take place last year. You understand what I mean, it's just a matter of months. It's been a couple of months. And usually in these cases, because it is not the Ministry of Justice essentially the expeditious one, but the Ministry of National Defence, which is why this particular stiffness has been, so that we do not even have the applicable law today. Finally, I want to say this. I was surprised that Janakopoulos came back to use the evidence. Because if he really wanted to see how he actually came, he came back, he was excluded and that particular provision came back, he will see that both in 2015 and in 2019 in June - and in the end, if I remember correctly, he must have been with the PPP - and in 2019 in November he returned, it is exactly the same wording. I did not judge how independent Greek justice would be called upon to judge whether and whether the specific means of proof can be used. But the provisions are exactly the same in all three cases. I want to put it in the Minutes, in case there is distrust, at least you can look around and see that it is self-sufficient the same deposit, the same withdrawal and the same redeposit of this provision. [[At this point the Minister for Justice, Mr. Tsiaras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] That is what I think I have no more to add. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat that in spite of the different views and despite what we can discuss in this Chamber, the fact that, in a spirit of culture and in a spirit of serious expression of arguments or of a different opinion, at least we are establishing a different model of discussion and that is something that gives me great pleasure. I really want to thank my partners at the Justice Department. This bill was a product of very tough, very systematic and very painful work, and it is the result, if you like, of the consistency and, more so, of the mood that all of my colleagues in the Ministry prove daily when we are actually called upon to make a great effort to put before the House the Greek Parliament bills, which, in our opinion, have a structured and comprehensive picture, to prove to the matter and, of course, to a very large extent, to be assessed by the large number of Members of the Greek Parliament. It is time, ladies and gentlemen, that we have to return to a page and we have to do it together. I have said and repeat that justice must not and cannot be the area of our micro-political conflicts. We must give Greek citizens a real sense of independence, of the serious institutional way Greek justice operates. It is the least we have to do, essentially inspiring the whole of Greek society to feel security. I understand that political or party practices often lead us to a statement of views that are said simply to be said, which are simply said to be confronted. From that point on, however, we must all understand that, in the near future, we are prepared to take all steps and take all those initiatives that will cure pathogens in the field of justice, regain the prestige and independence of justice and give the last Greek citizen the feeling that justice works through the measures, terms and rules he wishes and wishes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement. The Ministers for Civil Protection, Finance, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Justice, Home Affairs, Migration and Asylum, Maritime and Island Policy and State tabled a draft law on 29-6-2020: ‘Public outdoor meetings and other provisions’. The debate on the principle and articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice is closed: "The Single Code of Procedure for the Court of Auditors, an integrated legislative framework for pre-contractual control, amendments to the Code of Law on the Court of Auditors and provisions on the effective administration of justice and other provisions". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes three hundred and sixty three articles, five amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u235	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u236	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u237	Therefore, following the conclusion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘The Single Code of Procedure for the Court of Auditors, an integrated legislative framework for pre-contractual audit, amendments to the Code of Law on the Court of Auditors, provisions on the effective administration of justice and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u238	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u239	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S1-commons.u240	With the agreement of this House at 17.00 hours the sitting is closed for today, Monday 29 June 2020 at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
