ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: "The Single Code of Procedure for the Court of Auditors, a comprehensive legislative framework for pre-contractual control, amendments to the Code of Laws on the Court of Auditors and provisions on the effective administration of justice". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 19 June 2020 to discuss the draft law at two meetings. Today's sitting will be discussed and the bill will be passed in principle. The meeting on 29 June 2020 will discuss and vote on the articles of the bill as one section, the amendments, and the entire bill. In today's debate, the rapporteurs and the special speakers will be present for 15 minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives for twelve minutes, the speakers on the list for seven minutes and the Minister responsible for eighteen minutes in accordance with Rules 64, 96 and 97 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I therefore propose that the parties be represented in proportion to their parliamentary power with a circle of forty speakers as follows: Twenty-two speakers from New Democracy, twelve speakers from SYRIZA, three speakers from the Change Movement, two speakers from the Communist Party of Greece and one speaker from the Greek Solution and the Mera25 respectively. Speaking time will be seven minutes. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u2	The House agreed. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Konstantinos Kyranakis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at committee meetings last days with the positions of the opposition parties and bodies I think we have managed to reach a significant degree of consensus on the main points of this bill. After all, this is what we have to recognise that the effort for this bill was launched by the previous government in a committee chaired by the current President of the Court of Auditors. There are provisions - and these are most important - which speed up the administration of justice, and I think that for everyone in this Chamber these provisions are very positive and important for different reasons, from a different ideological starting point for everyone. Who are these? With the institution of the Judge-Rapporteur, who will have the case ready for trial, that is to say, he will have a brief report with the history of the dispute and the necessary documents for decision-making, as described in Article 89, the greatest speed in the decision-making is achieved. Furthermore, by facilitating the dismissal of the party from the application for judicial protection, the court will be relieved of cases where the applicant himself does not show interest. This is described in Article 81(1). There is also the key role of the President of the Court and, in the interpretation of the President of the Chamber, to ensure more rapid judgment in a reasonable time either by categorising the cases per thematic category or by bringing together, as described in Articles 90 to 93. In addition, when the request for suspension is heard not at the audience but by a three-member board, as described in Article 98, we are able to speed up the administration of justice. Another important regulation is that in Article 339, in which the Court of Auditors and its seven departments are effectively reorganised, we achieve a better distribution of the judicial material of the departments in order to make it more flexible and effective. So the parts which have so far had a much larger volume of work will be reduced and those which had less will be able to have a more balanced volume in cases that they manage and avenge. A very important change is also provided for in Article 360 by which special sections can now be created to deal with specific categories of administrative disputes. This will be done at the administrative courts of Athens and Thessaloniki. So the cases will be dealt with much faster than judges who have in the past gained a great deal of experience in any specific legislation. So there will be no delays due to the need for some judges to look for all the evidence that helps them better understand a case and therefore make a decision. I think, Mr President, that with this whole framework of measures, an overall objective is achieved for the government to speed up the administration of justice at all levels and with this draft law on the Court of Auditors and the administrative courts. In order to be able to measure precisely the purpose of this, but also of previous bills, there is a great innovation. Who's that? It is that for the first time a statistical office is introduced, a statistical service that will measure and value the work of Greek justice with quantitative and qualitative elements, so that the political leadership understands exactly how the courts are operating throughout the country, what the needs are, what the requirements are, and so that we can measure our policy and the reforms that are being implemented, but above all their result. This has also been discussed in committees. I think that now there is a significant degree of consensus and it is a measure that will benefit both the present and the next governments in their work and in the reforms planned in Greek justice. Mr President, there are also several regulations providing for electronic procedures. Who are these? The use of electronic means by the court and the parties for conducting the proceedings, Article 17, the exercise of legal aid or media in a digital signature, Article 55, the drawing up of an electronic performance report, Articles 65 and 67, the submission of relevant documents using an electronic signature or an authorised electronic stamp, Articles 255 and 257. This whole framework of measures also helps to speed but also helps to modernise Greek justice, something that lawyers across the country have also demanded and the citizens themselves too, who often see being troubled by unnecessarily necessary bureaucracy, which can be electronically transferred. Also, a significant change in this bill is the temporary regulation of a situation. What happened to this day? To date a person to whom a sum of money had been charged could bring an action against the debit, but the judgment was made two or three years later. This request will now be accepted if it is likely that someone is in danger of being punished or treated inhuman or degrading, which is prohibited by Article 3 of the ECHR, and so we solve a very big problem which is mainly about our weak fellow citizens, extreme cases. For example, we had a pension difference, and while the pensioner did not have any other income, he could not be made a living in another way, he could not have been able to obtain that pension even temporarily. So we come and give a solution to this problem, and I think that all parties in this Chamber should welcome this provision. Articles 118 to 129 also stipulate that a specific procedure shall be laid down for the application for the award, normally carried out by the Commissioner-General of the State, to the Court of Auditors, to the detriment of civil servants. For example - and I think we have all heard such examples - town planning refuses to grant permission. Annulment of the refusal means compensation for the injured for all the years in which an undertaking has been closed, for example, in which a public officer in the town has refused to grant the licence in question illegally. With this possibility set out in Articles 118 to 129, these civil servants who have infringed the law by harming the State will now be invited to pay the damage. So the burden is now shifting in a more concrete way, in a clearer way both to the state itself and to the civil servants themselves who do not do their job properly and businesses can thus feel greater legal certainty. There was quite a debate on Rule 343 at committee meetings. It is good, I think, that Parliament will now be able to ask the Court of Auditors for priority checks, it will also be able to propose up to three checks for public management shortcomings by the Court of Auditors and the legislative improvements that we are waiting to see, Minister, I think we will be able to reach a broad consensus on this provision as well. All in all, let me say, Mr Minister, that it is a bill which is very much about investment in our country and it is important, although, as I have said before, there are ideological differences, to realise that everyone wins this. Everyone wins if an investment from foreign capital or Greek capital comes to the country, creates jobs, creates incomes, creates profits, because that is the only way our fellow citizens can find jobs. There are no workers without employers, there are no incomes without a company being able to earn in this country and Greek justice, always on the basis of its constitutional role, must make the life of a person who wants to invest his money for a good purpose and always within legal frameworks. The delays observed in several courts I think that with the new regulation on the JustStat service, this statistical office that we have discussed in detail, they can now be measured, we will be able to assess the work of the courts and where there are shortcomings in correcting them. This is the basic innovation. Now, Minister, I would like, in closing, to express a thought on what we have been hearing in the last few days about the area of Greek justice and certainly all the things that we are discussing here consensually - and it is important that all parties agree on the main objective set by the bill - it is important. It is also important that citizens feel toward them that they have a justice which is not a shop and is not a shop for any government. So the clearance that has to be done, without wishing to enter any nomenclature in the debate on this bill, is necessary, not for us, not for the Members of this Parliament, not for the political system, but for the ordinary citizen, who sees all that is heard, in audio, all that is written and said by former ministers and feels that his case in Greek justice is not a priority, that the agendas of different stores may be the priority of different ministers, ministers who are colluding with governments, internally, externally or otherwise. What matters to us is that the ordinary citizen feels that he can go to a court and find his point. And this today, Minister, cannot feel it with all that has been revealed in recent days and with some former ministers calling governments and Greek justice as a shop, which makes a lot of money. No minister has the right to refer to prosecutors as "a simple girl", which should come to explain. No minister has the right to ask for legal proceedings. No minister has the right to order by'so I want' investigations to incriminate innocent people. All this must be over, Minister, and I think we will have the opportunity to discuss it in detail in this plenary debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u4	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. The rapporteur of SYRIZA, Mr Theophilos Xanthiopoulos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with the epilogue of the position of the majority rapporteur, Mr Kyranakis, and say that the essential concept of all of us is an independent, unarmed and functioning justice. I would therefore say in this Chamber that we are very careful, as I said yesterday, because precisely. We are the legislative body of the country, and we must not tirelessly adopt and reproduce things that are written and spoken. There's an issue with an illegally-built conversation. It will be judged whether this is a stitching product or not, it will be decided whether it can be evidence or not, and by then we must have very low tones. Sotto voce, ladies and gentlemen. Do not retreat, do not open topics by pressing a board hole. I would remind you that, as many times as the history of the preliminary committee on the responsibilities of Mr Papagelopoulos has gone to independent justice, the majority suffered political and legal defeat. When it comes to matters of majority and minority in committee, you decide according to the principle with the partnership of the Change Movement, when Greek justice decides, you are subject to what is imposed by law and legality. So, today that we have an institutional framework for the Court of Auditors, let us remain in this, let us not replicate what is being done in the corridors, in the discussions in public and in secret, and it is happening many times, because we will find it before us. It is not possible for this House to be involved in such a meeting of material which has been illegally obtained, which we do not know whether it is actually in line with the reality and, in fact, to question the foundations of our legal culture. As far as she is concerned on today's agenda is concerned, we are in fact discussing the Court of Auditors' Code, a code which the former SYRIZA government has been working on in its overwhelming part. It is a code among many institutional efforts that we have made as SYRIZA, because we have very high the idea of justice, we have very high autonomy, independence and, above all, the function of society as a whole. I have said so in the previous debates in plenary. It is a basic ideological and political difference that we have. We are not only seeing justice as a lever for growth and recompense. First of all, we see it as an individual and political right for every citizen and as a promoted society, whether it concerns the elaboration of the small and medium-sized TEVEtzis or the big case of wind turbines or personal data, as the new parts go. So that was our concept of bringing this code. This code has received a thorough and detailed treatment from the Court of Auditors' plenary and essentially comes to the House. And this code is one of the many codes that we have worked on and voted on during the SYRIZA governance, precisely because for us the codes are the boulevard of justice and the outdated legislation that existed during the previous period did not help in this direction. Reminding that we brought the Code of Civil Procedure, we brought the Criminal Code, we brought the Code of Criminal Procedure. We've prepared the Code of the Judiciary. He's ready, Minister. We've prepared the Code of Judiciary. He's ready, Minister, to bring him in and solve institutional problems of justice. In this code, of course, we are positive. It is also our work and the Chamber throughout the previous period seemed to be converging in very important parts. We had expressed a reservation for the amicus curiae, for the National Public Procurement Authority as to how it participates in the extradition of justice. We have lifted these reservations, precisely because we have found the convergence points through a sound, fruitful and creative dialogue and this part is therefore a point of convergence. There remains our reservation and our objection to the creation of departments. Firstly, because on the basis of what the Minister has brought forward and tabled, we are essentially legislating to serve different interests. This is a first reservation. Secondly, because it has not been clarified whether the new Chambers of First Instances and Appeals will have judges, who will be recruited or seconded from the rest, thereby significantly restricting the functioning of the other Chambers. And this will not only be a limitation on the functioning of the remaining sections, it will be a further reduction in the already too slow speed of justice. So there is one point here, which we will have the opportunity to discuss, how they will be served, how long these sections will be served, and that is our one reservation. Our other reservation is the phenomenon of the neck of the bottle, i.e. two new sections will be created in Thessaloniki and Athens, the country will be divided into two, all the cases of half the country in Thessaloniki, the other half in Athens, will be accumulated, resulting in substantially further delays. Apart from the fact that there is a matter of transferring the parties, that is, transferring the citizen, for example from Rhodes to Athens to trial or from Crete to Athens, there will be a cumulation of these three categories of cases in these departments. We express very serious reservations as to whether this can be an acceleration or actually blocked, stopped, slowed down such cases. It is a matter that needs further investigation. We are here to see this, we are waiting for the clarification of the Secretary-General's proposals. We have also expressed a reservation about the need to create a service from the outset that will be involved in the statistics of the Ministry of Justice. I would like to say this once again to make it clear to everyone, to the whole Chamber and to all citizens. It is obvious in our view that justice without statistics is on the way to the gap. It was a good example that the Minister mentioned, practically we do not know how many court rooms we have throughout Greece. So I, in my experience at the audiences, am able to strengthen this view and I can even contribute further to the formulation of this view, as I have done. Our reservation, therefore, was that it was practical to create a new service and not to mention, not to have a point of reference to ELSTAT. A convergence point was found with the Change Movement as well as with the Minister. So we repeat that, yes, the four addresses and the six sections that exist in the Ministry of Justice need to be consolidated, a single service must be made, a statistician, because they are the most competent ones, the ones who have the know-how to go ahead with this story. And we also said that quality parameters should be introduced into the operation of the statistical authority. Only slowing down or accelerating justice is half true and half the truth is a lie. They must therefore enter quality parameters, for example, how many cases from the highly indebted households are rejected due to fraudulent origin under a condition of inability to pay, how many are rejected due to vagueness or how many of those who come to the interrogator are released on restrictive terms and how many follow the path of temporary detention. It is evidence that will allow us at regular intervals to adjust the course of our legal system, to have this feedback, the feedback we are saying, so that we can actually formulate a policy. We have proposed to the Minister - and we expect his commitment - that there will be a consultation every one year, every three years, it is at his discretion and we are discussing it, a body consisting of the technocrats of the Ministry of Justice, the plenary of the Presidents of the Bar Associations, the association of the Greek judges, so that we can put the goals of the next period of time and know what we will call for next time and how we manage this very big part of the justice that is essentially about the entire Greek society. Why not never leave our minds, ladies and gentlemen, justice is the function of the state in which everyone looks forward, and it is essentially the last dismantling of the citizen, but also the limit of state, public intervention and public arbitrary. I conclude by saying, Minister, that we are waiting for amendments. It's a competitivity of the system. We're four meetings here. That is what I think is the fifth and we are discussing the amendments. No amendments have been made. The amendments must come in order to discuss them as well and to make the best arrangement and the best composition on the amendments too. I think that in this way we are giving a sample of consensus, we are giving a sample of cooperation on how we in SYRIZA contribute, we are, in common, putting back, we are promoting joint solutions to the problems of society, we have the ownership, in the common sense, of the code of conduct of the Court of Auditors, of the additional issues that have arisen with the Minister's suggestion and with the draft law, and in this direction we will continue to go ahead with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u6	I shall now give the floor to the Special Rapporteur of the Change Movement, Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary a bill on the modernisation of justice, when we have been in a week when our justice, but also our institutions, are constantly shaken by the revelations that are seen in the light of the news. I think we need to look at the whole picture very carefully because, unfortunately, the present situation is the least it can do. As you can see, for some time now, an outrageous, para-state large abscess has been created, which in turn creates a very great abstention in Greek society, a very great abstention towards politics, politicians, towards the institutions themselves. Our institutions are being affected. Our democracy is being hurt with all this, and that is why we in the Change Movement say it needs to be plentiful light everywhere. It is necessary for justice to do its job undignified and we declare our trust, our absolute trust, in Greek justice and the knife to reach the bone. So it is appropriate, and that is why we say that all these major changes and reforms in the area of justice must be made, so that the chronic pathogens can be solved, which are agitated and which are also agitated by Greek citizens and the very needs of them, we must listen and we must resolve. As it is our first debate in plenary and perhaps our colleagues who have not taken part in previous meetings, I shall refer in summary to the very basic issues of this draft law, which essentially includes codification in a single procedural document, which concerns the administration of justice by the Court of Auditors, which had already been prepared since 2018, by the then government and by the legislative committee of the Court of Auditors, which was then set up with the chairman of the current President of the Court of Auditors, and which was also drafted by the Court of Justice, which contains amendments to the Court of Justice Code proposed by the Court of Auditors itself, the adoption of a comprehensive legislative framework for pre-contractual audit, which the Court of Auditors exercises and provisions for the processing of statistical data of specific sections in civil, administrative and, of course, other provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors is a body of historical memory and dynamics. This institution has flowed the entire Greek history from ancient times, and this is important to remind you, Minister. The institutional framework for financial control was already in Athenian democracy and it had been described in detail, if you like, the principles that Aristotle had to govern. According to Stagiris philosopher, financial control is carried out by persons clearly distinguished from the other authorities. Who were those faces? The responsible, Minister, who was a hybrid if you would like the institution of the modern audit bodies to be accountable to the chief public treasure managers. The importance of the existence and the good functioning of these control mechanisms was such in Athenian democracy, which was essentially their defeat by the Laekenimonians was largely attributed to relaxing the efficiency of financial control. And Plato, in his latest work in the laws, proposes to reform the institution of those responsible at the time of the audit. In our modern history, the Court of Auditors was founded in 1833 in the model of the French court as the highest of the administrative audit authority. And what was it for? For the poor management of the first foreign loans and the country's first bankruptcy. During his years he has been assigned a series of new responsibilities, and today, as we all know, within this Chamber, he is a two-tier body, whose powers are now laid down in Article 98 of the Constitution, which is essentially about transparency, accountability and efficiency in the area of public spending. In other words, the role of the Court of Auditors has to do with the very concept of good administration, good governance, and that is why, Minister, we have said so in the committee debate - the introduction of provisions of a single procedural text on the functioning of the Court of Auditors is in the right direction. For what? Because complex, dazzling, archaic, if you like, institutions, regulations, which were in place very much made access to the Court of Auditors difficult, and at the same time you are adopting serious regulations that improve, even cowardly in some cases, but improve regulations where there is a gap. If we want to get into some of the elements of the bill now, I would like to point out first of all that if we want to speak frankly, first of all we should admit that, contrary to Article 11, and I told the committees too, Mr Minister, that the parties to the bill are equal before the Court of Auditors, this is not true when the party is the Greek State. This assumption, Minister, is very important in order to be able to understand the improvements we need to make and the direction in which we must move about with regard to the legislation relating to the Court of Auditors. The State is therefore not an equal party. He is a privileged party and, as I have said, he must rightly be a privileged party, but with limits. Why? For the Greek state of course we are all, in fact, the Greek citizens of nothing except the Greek State, but under no circumstances can the rights of Greek citizens be trampled over. In no case can the Constitution be dissatisfied and, of course, the laws must be respected primarily, not just by everyone, but by the Greek public above all. Ladies and gentlemen, I have mentioned to the committees what, as we know from our legal experience, the two most serious problems involved in the operation of the Court of Auditors. One is the delays in the judgment of cases - hence the administration of justice - and the second is the non-implementation of judgments. I would like to stress once again that in terms of the first biggest problem, namely the time to deal with cases, there are times when the Court of Auditors almost touches on the limits of the veto. I mentioned to you the example of the citizen, who wants to make a pension difference to the Court of Auditors, where it takes at least five years to determine his case in the section in pension disputes, as I have told you, and over a year to make a decision that in most cases this issue, the issue of the citizen's pension, has already been solved by decisions of the Court of Justice. If his case is brought to the plenary, until a decision has been taken and a decision has been taken three or four years, so that we have what I have said to you, essentially a veto, which - I think you are well aware - has led to multiple convictions in our country in the European courts. The second biggest problem is the non-compliance of the Greek State with the decisions of the Court of Auditors. With regard to this non-compliance, therefore, it is not understood, Minister, that a favoured state in which one authority does not fulfil the decisions of the other. Where is the constitutional distinction of powers? Where's their parity? Minister, this issue must finally be resolved, which is referred to in Article 304, which refers to Law 3068/2002; the PASOK Act, Minister, on the implementation by the State of judgments. I think it is obvious and undeniable to all of us that the most important part of a fair trial is the execution, that is, the application of a judicial decision, and this issue should have been self-evident and under no circumstances a request. And I would like you to tell me paragraph 3 of Article 304, where it refers to the personal responsibility of the offender, the public servant, that is to say, who does not carry out the decision, beyond the criminal responsibility of Article 259 of the Criminal Code, in the end, Minister, who is a breacher. Is he the Minister of Finance? Is he the Minister of Labour and Social Security? Is there another Minister, or are he the officials responsible for the FBI? Or are all these people together or the relevant officials of the institution to whom they are addressed? I think there needs to be a very clear answer because, as it stands, it is suffering from vagueness and, although - and I stress that, Minister - it wants this bill to show only civil servants as violators, then it is clearly in the wrong direction. This is because no civil servant will ever execute any decision unless a minister is ordered. In the area of special sections, I must say, Minister, that unfortunately the questions we have raised to you are not convinced and we have not received the necessary answers. Of course, we say this clearly - we are absolutely positive about the creation of special sections, which will be able to support, with the speedier administration of justice, the resumption of the development process in our country, because we all know very well that legal precariousness and slowness in the administration of justice are deterrent factors for investment in our country. But, as I have repeatedly explained to you, in particular with regard to regular justice, to serving the special chambers with judges and officials by removing them from the other chambers, you realise that this will lead to incredible delays in all other cases of regular justice. I am afraid, then, that in the way this bill proposes in the end there will be much more problems than the ones it wants to solve, and in the end, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot have the justice of two and three speeds. Citizens' rights and claims cannot enter the balance. What can we do, Minister? So you must, in the same way as you are concerned about the process of development more quickly, in the same way that you must show a similar sensitivity to all other differences, to labour, to the vast majority of Greek citizens and to the Greek justice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm gonna need a minute. With regard to the creation of the autonomous Collection and Processing of Statistics, Minister, you are facing open doors. All this was the creation and work of the PASOK governments, the work of Harry Kastanidis when he was Minister of Justice, which was continued by Miltiades Papaioannou and other ministers, and of course we are absolutely positive about something, which we first as PASOK have established and brought to Greek justice. We need statistics - and they certainly need to - and you need to take a little more, if you want, your attention not only to the cost statistics and to the quantitative performance of each judicial unit, but above all to those reasons which lead to the delay in the administration of justice, which have to do with the well-known reasons we have mentioned many times. For pre-contractual audits we have been placed and have said that it is of course important that the amount of pre-contractual control be reduced to EUR 300,000 in the works and supply and service contracts from EUR 500,000 that were before, given that the cost-prevention audit has been abolished. But we have asked you that, because we believe that this amount is already quite high, there should be a further reduction in it. I conclude, Mr President, with some specific proposals which I think should be heard and which have to do with further improvements and additions, with regard to the role of the Court of Auditors itself. Because of course, steps are being taken with this bill, but as I told you, it could have been much braver. I therefore consider, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that the Court of Auditors' audit should be fully harmonised, fully harmonised and with international auditing standards and should include not only the control of the legality of public revenue and expenditure, but also the verification of sound or non-management. It is a much deeper concept, Minister, than simply control over the legality of revenue. In addition, pre-contractual monitoring of public procurement must be made even more timely and more substantial, without exceptions, Minister, that the rules on healthy competition can also be checked, that the economics and efficiency of each competitive process can be assessed. Finally, I would suggest - and I think, Minister, that we should take this seriously - that the Members responsible and judges should be given the sole responsibility of the Court of Auditors with the validity of this principle. And finally, something that you are already doing, the auditing of the balance sheet and the State's accounts will be carried out in an even closer cooperation between the Court of Auditors and Parliament, in accordance with the French model. Insert some of these settings, but they need to be much braver.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u8	My colleague, you've reached nineteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u9	We therefore want transparency, Mr President, we want more rapid administration of justice, we want modernisation of the country's procedural system, and we can achieve it in terms of good legislation. First of all, we are positive about this bill, Minister, no matter how much we think that some proposals could be much better formulated and much more brave. Because, you know, we in the Change Movement have no blindfolds or taboo. We stand positively on any bill that solves problems, even partially. And I wish, ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber, we could reach agreement on many more issues, on many more issues, because I think that in this way we could help even further the credibility of the political system, the credibility of all of us. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u10	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakas, is now called in Stepma. Here, Ms. Konnakka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. If, in fact, the draft law was limited to coding the existing scattered legislation governing the operation of the Court of Auditors, first of all, there would be no good reason to oppose it. However, what finally gives the signal to the bill is the introduction of a number of new reactive provisions, in order to adapt the operation of the Court of Auditors to governmental pursuits for easier and more easily than the above-controlled decisions, but also for procedures that serve an even more classic, unambiguously, we would say, now classic, that is to say, a more friendly and effective justice for business groups, better suited to the needs of their profitability, but more hostile and unreserved to the workers, the low-grade pensioners, the popular strata for which are constantly blocking access to justice. So this is the basic philosophy of the bill and this is another step in the direction that the government has taken, continuing from where SYRIZA left the thread, for justice even more reactionary and manipulative than the government in question and for great interests through its multi-formal privatization, as has already happened with the compulsory mediation in civil and commercial matters that has begun to apply. Today's bill is only a sign of the reactionary vision recently presented at the so-called Delphi Forum by the Minister of Justice and by the Vice-President of the Government, Mr. Pikramemos, who reflects his intention of such a justice, a justice better controlled, more vulnerable to the diverse pressures, with the separation of judges into regular and on duty, with a substantial abolition of the constitutional provision for equilibrium, with constant examinations of ordinary judges, with the abolition of the year-end, but also with the reduction of their number through the so-called 'Kallikratis' judiciary, the abolition of certain courts. Besides, this was repeated by the Vice-President and in an interview with a well-known pro-government newspaper on the weekend. In fact, you do not hide that in this direction the new Justice Statistics Office first set up with the bill will be exploited. These reactionary targets you want to serve as an alibi the data that will be extracted and not, of course, the improvement in the functioning of justice for the benefit of workers and people. For example, the reduction in the flow of cases, which may occur in some categories as a result of the increase in access costs to justice, will be used as an argument for the abolition of courts, which is considered to be inconsistent and difficult to serve, especially in the province, by making access, among others, even more precise and difficult. And you know, already such difficulties are experienced by many people in the province, especially the islands, who may need to spend a week on ships and hotels for a hearing, for example, to the prosecutor. It is characteristic that the Association of Administrative Judges itself pointed out the danger of reading the statistical data when the provision focuses on the cost and quantitative performance of each judicial unit, as if we were talking about tool yields, while omissioning to consider the reasons why they delayed the administration of justice, reasons for endorsing chronic subsistence problems or unnecessary exhaustion from the administration of the media or other reasons mainly due to government choices. In other words, as a commodity, you also face justice in terms of cost-benefit and when it is judged to be inconsistent, this must be curtailed. A number of provisions also strengthen the possibility of intervention by both the Minister for Justice or the General Commissioner of the Court of Auditors and the Presidents of the Chambers in the examination of the progress of cases. With the adoption of the reactionary procedure, the so-called'standard or pilot trial', the Court of Auditors' most centralised and non-transparent function is achieved in order to better control its decisions, while making it easier to refer a number of cases to the Council, thus limiting the principle of openness. As a problem we have also highlighted the provision which enables the House itself to define the priorities of the Court of Auditors in carrying out the audits. Even more revealing of the reactive nature of the relevant provisions introduced is the one in Article 301 which ensures that the Court of Auditors' plenary is able to determine the results of its decision in a time after the adoption or the execution of the contested act or omission of the administration. In that way, the court may give time to the illegality of the administration, and this, as it provokes in the bill, for reasons of public interest. In other words, an illegal action by the public will bring about potential harmful effects, which cannot be retroactively corrected. You have learned the know-how from the relevant decisions of the Council of State for pensioners. In this particular debate, we will be more detailed and a number of other provisions which clearly make this nature of the draft law. Of course, all of this is accompanied by an increase in the offences in court, even in pension cases, so as to put additional obstacles to access to the most economically weak. Of course, justice for some is a little more fair, more accessible, faster, more effective. It is really challenging to establish special departments with experienced judges and accelerated procedures for cases that bring together lively investment interest in major business groups, while all kinds of people's affairs, including workers, pensions and others, put up and go back to court. However, even more provocative are the anthems that have been heard in this Chamber from all sides about the need for justice to serve investment. In fact, this has been repeated by both the Minister and the government majority, but in this case both SYRIZA and the Change Movement, who have virtually not been disturbed by the provocative creation of luxurious fast-track investment divisions, have voiced their anxiety in some cases, because these are limited to energy, electronic communications and the protection of personal data and do not extend to other cases relating to the construction sector, for example. An auction was made in this Chamber for business groups’ facilities. On the other hand, the government has her ears closed tightly in every voice not only from the workers and the people, but also in every voice from the judges and the legal world that does not consent to a justice fully subordinate to the great business interests and the government pursuits that serve them. If nothing else, it was very convenient and not accidentally for the government to promote this kind of reactionary change, free of the annoying counterpart that knew that there was the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, the country's largest judiciary. It also condemns the credit for its support, despite the opposing and not convincing assurances from the Minister in our view, in the unacceptable methods of overthrowing the democratically elected majority of the Bureau and replacing it with an interim administration with only the task of holding elections. Bolear silence in the face of the announced serious overthrows in the field of justice. It is characteristic that we are discussing a draft law on justice with no absence of consultation of the directly concerned about the procedure. So it is assured that you are aiming at a fair, as you said, friendly, in entrepreneurship that will not stand in the way of investment. And that concern, of course, is shared by all of you. You are jointly serving the objective of facilitating the great business interests, but you are making the people out of them every time the dirty water flows from such facilities. Because the recent episodes of rot and corruption, which are literally disgusted once again by the people, are eroding directly from the sources of the system that you all serve. He's the firstborn child of the capitalist system. And what you would probably all sign up to from the contested talks is the cynical statement that capitalism is not a criminal offence. Do not do, then, as if you discovered America, because all the parties you have governed have written episodes in this sirial, common denominator of which is the sepsis of a system that at its core has exactly the service of business interests - for which you are giving rapid-collected tests - of course the constant undermining of popular needs. As a JRC, of course, we have no delusion that these phenomena may be eliminated as long as the system that produces them is maintained. However, we call for measures to be taken to limit such provocative conditions to trade. That is why the amendment tabled by the JRC for the free and compulsory transmission of messages about public health by all the media, but also public advertising, public-law legal persons and legal persons in the wider public sector, from printed and electronic media in terms of publicity and sanctions in the event of their breach. The unacceptable attitude of the New Democracy Government not to make public the list of instruments channelled by the state funding of EUR 20 million in the midst of a pandemic raises huge questions and leaves it at least exposed. This, of course, in no way acquits previous governments following similar practices and using the same instruments. So, trying to deal with these issues, the JRC has tabled the relevant amendment, which we specifically ask for: Messages related to the protection of public health, especially to tackle a pandemic, should be broadcast and registered in all the media - broadcasters, electronics and forms - for free of charge and not in terms of advertising campaigns. We also had this position in the debate on the vote on the relevant funds brought by the government in legislative terms. In all other cases, where, in order to promote the Ministries, the public sector bodies and the former ECHO, there needs to be expenditure on advertising media, the competent body should, within 10 days, submit to the relevant Committee on Institutions and Transparency of Parliament the list of the media which have been financed, in order to check whether the rules on equal treatment have been complied with on the basis of objective criteria, without, of course, unacceptable exclusion and without subsidisation of any non-existent instruments, methods referring to suspicious transactions. In the event of non-compliance with the conditions of transparency, the contract should be cancelled and the money paid to the media should be reimbursed. Of course, the omission of publicity and transparency in the distribution of public advertising expenditure, as well as the avoidance of the search for the sums paid in the event of the cancellation of the contracts concerned, also entail the criminal prosecution of those responsible for natural persons by threatening prison sentences of up to one year. Finally, the amendment provides for the obligation by the competent bodies to submit information on how the Greek people's money has been spent over the last 10 years to promote public advertising, to check the methods followed by the previous governments in similar cases. We therefore call on the government to take a stand on this amendment, but also on the other parties that swear for transparency as long as they are in opposition, but forget to follow such methods during their governance. We will also return to the debate on this amendment. In conclusion, in relation to the draft law under discussion, the JRC has made it clear that it will not consent to a bill that legalises the justice of two speeds and substantially strengthens the means for it to be increasingly controlled on the basis of the specific governmental pursuits, a justice that is friendly to business groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. The special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr Konstantinos Hetas, has the floor. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is the subject of our committee and of the bills you have carried from time to time that need a lot of study, a lot of preparation. And while I'm a man who speaks of breasts because that's how it comes out, he often needs preparation. Today I am not hiding from you that I have done quite a good preparation, Minister, but you know, this morning when I got up and I was kind of, I had run away - to tell you just like that - I said not to look at any of the things I wrote. For we have gathered together, Minister, today in this Chamber to talk about justice, about a rule of law, about a prosperous state, about new bills, about the organization of the Court of Auditors, about the codification of the Court of Auditors, about things, and I feel that we are in a glass - as here is a good time - but not just me, all of us here in Parliament and we do not have a sense of what is going on in society and we have come here today. I am a political being, too, Minister, not a politician, a political being, a man of violin, of everyday life. A life like this we work for most of the Greek Solutions so we are, by our President, but also all the rest, people of life and everyday life. And now I say, what rule of law are we talking about, Minister, what favoured state are we talking about here and we are being called today to discuss here, when a few hours ago - and that is now an example that has come to the surface and publicity - are they fainting children, Minister? They faint young children in schools from hunger, poverty, poverty! For what favoured state to talk about and what rule of law, when in a few months, in a few days, do you know very well that Greek citizens are about to lose their homes? And we'll talk about a rule of law here today! Greeks who have worked a life, have not been able to respond and have been ready to lose their homes when we live in a country, Minister, whose market is dead. We live in a country, Minister, in a favoured state, a rule of law, where unemployment has risen. We distribute money to the media to advertise the self-evident thing, which should be done free of charge as a social message. And instead of being politicians to offer this money to vulnerable groups, to families living below the poverty line, so that they do not faint children - and that is our responsibility, Minister, and let us not rule, I also put myself in - you share the money right and left. There is no care, Minister, for Greek citizens. We are a favoured state and a rule of law which has the Greek poor and, at the same time, Mr Minister - and you know it very well - distributes money to illegal and illegal immigrants who enter our country and live happily. This little girl passed out. She didn't have to eat, with a mother, single-parent family, raise her children. At the same time, outside of where I live, Minister, I went to shop last night in the showers of various Pakistani and Afghans outside an ATM in Eurobank to get their money, because it is time to pay. What rule of law is that addressed to Greek citizens, to understand? The economy is falling apart, Minister, and all you care about as a government, instead of telling the truth to the world, what the Greek Solution proposes is that you place emphasis on the real economy, on primary production, you want to look good and tell us that it is good. I heard this morning from a New Democracy colleague to compare faintings! Don't tell us, gentlemen of SYRIZA, that he fainted a little girl, because in 2017 he had fainted a little girl. And I turned off the TV, Minister! That is not an argument, that is, they were fainting, and then they are fainting and now, so '1-1' is a tie and we are doing everything right! There is one other thing to say in your bill, Minister, which is related to it. It is the rule of law that we are talking about and I think you agree with that. Every time you bring a bill, miserable crimes occur in society. As if the universe conspires every time a bill of justice is being discussed here in the House, there are things going on in society. And we have said a lot about paedophiles and all of them, like lifelong and strict penalties. You can't hear us or for some reason you can't do it. I don't know why. And if you want to talk about our country and the Court of Auditors, I will tell you, Minister, that the maids in general are not well, because our country is a few centimeters from the state of a state that may belong to the jungle. And I'll prove it to you. You know very well that I always come up to you, and I present you and - and you do - very often serious investigations into the issues we are talking about. To gather here and say "What a good thing to do and what a good piece of legislation we have made", but that does not reflect out in society and does not help improve the efficiency of justice, speed and quality, we do nothing, Minister. I shall therefore speak to you about a report from the Council of Europe on the effectiveness of justice in the Member States. So, according to the figures, in order not to get far, our country spends less money per capita on the operation of the judiciary than the European average. In Greece in 2010, although the number of judges has increased, the number of prosecutors has increased, but they are still much less than the other European countries. Mr Chiara, we have one of the smallest percentages of judges who serve to the first degree from all the countries of Europe. We have one of the worst ratios of judges per judge, one of the largest numbers of lawyers and one of the largest number of courts. In our country, Minister, the resolution of disputes in civil courts takes more days than in any other European Union country. Finally, the country's primary administrative courts have more outstanding cases than any other European Union country. This is our Greece. So what is the result of this? We have to draw a conclusion, we have to agree somewhere here today. It appears that neither the many judges, Mr Minister, nor the many courts are the solution to the inefficiency of our judicial system. The problem is - and you know it well - the rationalisation of human resources and the proper functioning of our logistics infrastructure. I'll ask you now about something and I'd like you to answer us later. I would really like you to mention what I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, because when the politician loses his contact with society, Mr Chiara, something is wrong. We must listen to society. Things out there are very difficult for Greek citizens because they live a great injustice. It is not the rule of law that the Greek citizen lives outside. It's a state of injustice. Really, let's go and see what justice is, as I thought, and I recorded it on a glue. I'll report to you five, six points. It is the national legal order, the national law as formed by the legislature, the parliament, what we are doing today. It's citizens' easy access to justice. It must be easy to access. It is the equality of all against the laws, the right and rapid administration of justice and fair trial, the satisfaction of the rightful feeling. And that's a huge matter. Can I tell you what's in our country? They are all the things I described previously in society, but I have also brought you some examples of the performance of our country at a pan-European level. We want the financial support of our country. As a movement, as a party, as a Greek Solution, we have told you many times that we want the financial support of our country, by right means, in right ways. However, the already difficult situation that has been created, has made it difficult for some other things, Minister. I will mention some key points in your bill, with which we disagree, to make it clear at first once again today and to hear and understand people. The already difficult situation therefore makes it even more difficult to deal with such issues as illegal immigration, the provision of privileges and facilities to foreigners - because this is unfortunately the case - illegal, irregular, who are benefiting from the mere Greek citizen of everyday life. Programmes, NGOs, various benefits are burdened with the state budget and we have proved it too many times here in practice, with papers, answers from your Ministries to questions from the Greek Solution that say that the state budget is being burdened with all these privileges of this new order of things that you are trying to barely incorporate into Greek society and to entice them, while society and we, of course, do not want them and have proposed thousands of solutions to you. Every bill you bring here, one way or another, has inside illegal immigration, dentistry, NGOs, privileges, benefits. He's got all this. He's been carrying them, Minister, decades ago and you're bringing them here because that's what you told me. You told me, "I'm not doing anything. So I take the Criminal Code, I make it a body at the Court of Auditors and we move on, we go with it." Of course! And you're referring to some non-profit companies, to non-governmental organisations, which ten years ago, Minister, may have been a football club, may have been a retired club or a team dealing with the stars and collecting these people, etc. Yes, but after ten years, if you turn a little bit out and take a walk together in any city in Greece you want, you will see that we are filled with illegal immigrants. And this is a huge problem not of the Greek Solution, but of Greece, of our country, of Greek citizens. There's a feeling of insecurity. Crime has been detonated at heights. Our country is in danger of losing its social fabric. We're in danger from them. It's a problem now. It's now a danger. It's not a phenomenon. It's not a matter of jaming them. It's about getting them out of here. So it reflects any NGOs in something different and not what we had ten years ago and you need to be harmonized in today's era. The Greek Solution cannot vote 'in favour', however technical this bill is today, Mr Chiara, when there are such provisions. Can't you drop it? Put another provision in it and say that these NGOs are imperfect, but those who deal with illegal immigrants are excluded from the law. Put that in there, let's talk about it. We can't, unfortunately. I know that you want to have a lot of participation and a lot of 'yes' from today's bill, but from us you will not get it as structured here. Until when, Mr Chiara, we will forget as a state - why are we doing - all the Greek citizens who have sacrificed all these years and finally saved our national economy? To conclude, there are some privileged provisions in the bill for a few. I mean, you're trying to promote some specific cases. I won't say if it's good or bad. It can also be good, because these cases concern the economic development of Greece. However, the large volume of outstanding cases, Mr Minister, is not just those cases. You bring provisions providing special courts with special provisions to quickly proceed to specific provisions that will make our country more attractive to investors. All this is good, but we are also talking about cases of people in danger of losing their property. And I'm talking again. there is the large volume and there you should lean up and give a solution. Whether from family loans they are in danger of losing their property or from outstanding pensions - there are even cases of funeral expenses. This is the large volume of cases. Why don't you remove the paradoxes and the judiciary in all pension cases? Remove it. As far as pensions are concerned, remove the misunderstandings and make it easier for these people. Make a rule, Minister, suspend execution when the Greek retired person is in danger of losing his property until his decision is finalised. Make that rule. Act the promise that you are legislating on the basis of the needs of Greek citizens! I'm now going to state spending control. It is a huge issue and we live in a country where we have many long-haired people. It has been shown from the years to date that there have been too many long-hauled government spendings. What can we do now? So move on to measures that protect and control state spending. To strengthen the pre-contractual audit of the Court of Auditors on public expenditure and not to leave it to its luck. Mr Minister, I really have nothing else to say to you, because we have had a long discussion with the committees too. We've been through one, two, three. We also have the debate on the articles. However, because it is a bill of the Ministry of Justice, and because I have heard that justice is the intent of our society by our colleague of the Officer's Representation, we must look at these joints of society that determines them if they are a little rotten, if they are corrosive, if they are dirty. They want a replacement, they want care, they want a sculpture. Because, Mr. Chiara, it is well in our microcosm that we are here to legislate. However, we should see whether it reflects and whether this reflects out there to the Greek citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u14	Mrs Fotini Bakadima is now called to Step 25. The President of the Greek Solution will then take the floor, Mr. Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's first day of discussion of a bill proposed by the Ministry of Justice concerning the Court of Auditors. I too think that, within the committee's meetings, it has become an extensive and detailed debate on all aspects. Therefore, today I will be content with mentioning only some of the main points which in our view fully reflect the spirit of the bill and on Monday, in the debate we shall have on the articles, I shall go further than the provisions we consider to be problematic. Perhaps at first sight this legislation will appear to be a technical draft law, as it is to its greatest extent. However, it also contains several more political provisions. Honestly, I do not think anyone could argue that we had in our hands, and if we were talking today about a text which was simply codifying the diffuse provisions relating to the Court of Auditors and which are now in scorpions in the Code of Law on the Court of Auditors, the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Administrative Procedure. Such a process of codification would be and is absolutely legitimate, as it would ultimately help to bring about quicker justice and would help make the citizen easier access to it. However, the draft law we have in our hands does not only seek to codify the provisions relating to the Court of Auditors. Since the first meeting we have been on some specific points. First and foremost, the issue of offenders. When I put it at first reading, the Minister commented on the fact that, as a MERA25, only one side of the coin, he overlooked the fact that, for a large category of differences, the paradox is falling. Thank you for your explanations today, Minister. We'll see them in depth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u16	That's a lot, and that's why they can't answer from the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u17	Yeah, yeah. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u18	We'll do it for all parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u19	I know. I just thank you for the answers we received. It is certainly useful to have written all our responses to the issues that we have raised in its place now. Therefore, we will carefully look at the answers we have received. However, I will come back to the issue of offenders. We do not think that access to justice should not be restricted to stumbling off citizens from claiming their right. What the bill now says, however, about the part of the offenders that is increasing, because there are little accusations: For inflicting pensions on pensions and debiting operations at the expense of wages or pensioners related to their salaries or pensions, a paradox of EUR 50 from the EUR 20 currently being. For appeals against fraudulent acts and offences with a financial object of 1% of the amount in question without any incremental surcharges, this analogous paradox may not be less than EUR 50 or more than EUR 5,000. If the amount of EUR 1,500 exceeds that amount, and the additional paradox due shall be charged by the decision, in the event that a partial acceptance of the aid or instrument is refused or is made only partially. For appeals to the differences in the general pension differences in EUR 150. In other cases EUR 350. For requests for fair satisfaction of 100 euros, for execution opposings, too. We are therefore talking about increasing the level of offenders for most of the trainees and means, appeal, arrest, appeal and many other cases. For example, for appeals to pension differences it is increasing to EUR 150 from EUR 70 today. We are talking about an increase of 114%, while in the case of opposition to administrative executions it is increasing from EUR 100 to EUR 350, an increase of 250%. At the same time, the court, as provided for in Article 310, may, according to the circumstances, even order the wrongdoing when the appeal is dismissed. We do not think there should be any paradox. We believe that access to justice should be uninterrupted, that all citizens should be able to take a decision, seek their right. Another point to which we have stood since the first moment - and not just us - critically is the creation of an independent data collection and processing agency with Article 358. And here I agree with what you said, Minister, on Friday, namely that the creation of this service is an absolute political decision. Our difference is a difference in understanding the reasons that have led to this decision. We believe that this is a first step which, in a second year, can lead to the abolition of non-productive courts. You insist, in fact, by blaming me at the last meeting that I see things where there are no, that the only reason is to collect data with a view to monitoring the correct and rapid performance of justice. Let me and let us keep our doubts and reservations. After all, we will be here to see the space after the creation of the service what will finally apply. I wish I was wrong. Believe me, if you do deny me, I will not hesitate to admit that you were right and I was wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u20	Respectful.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u21	I move on to another point that has given food for extensive debate and it is no longer Article 343. According to this, at the hearing of the President of the Court of Auditors, the House, as laid down in its Rules of Procedure, may request that priority be given to some of the checks planned. It may also express interest in other controls, in addition to planned, up to three a year, in particular with regard to weaknesses in public management systems. In other words, Parliament has the opportunity to use the Court of Auditors as its pawn and to order audits. You mentioned, Minister, yesterday - and it is also in the answers that we have received today's clarification - that the Court of Auditors will be able to refuse control. But the text I read above is the exact wording of the article in the bill as it has been posted on the website of the Parliament. The possibility of refusing control personally did not find it mentioned in the text. If there has been a mistake between the text you have and the text that has been uploaded on the website of this House, I cannot know that. According to what is currently in place and with this wording, the provision in no way respects the principle of separation of powers, as the government majority is given the opportunity to order control at the will of the Court of Auditors. And I am talking about the governmental majority, not about a qualified majority, because that is not exactly what this is about in the order. The House is referring to it vaguely without any further clarification. So when we report the House, we're talking about the government majority? Are we talking about a consensual majority? Will the simple majority be sufficient to control the Court of Auditors as a matter of priority or to start new checks on public management? And if this is the case, is it not - unfortunately - that is to say, the risk of a tool being used by the government in order to transform judicial power into a small-party body of the executive, namely the government in question and, unfortunately, it is unfortunately legitimised in the worst way once again, the division of powers which, unfortunately, many people have seen happening? Ladies and gentlemen, I will close with a brief reference to the pre-contractual audit. We consider the EUR 5 million reduction positive for projects co-financed by EUR 10 million today. As far as the limits on the budget expenditure on pre-contractual control under Article 324, which starts with the sum of EUR 300 are concerned, we believe that we should add an additional amount - and by Tuesday you will receive some specific proposals for what we consider to be an insurance policy - to reduce the number of contracts, namely to try to limit as far as possible the possibility of allocating the amounts of projects in such a way as to escape pre-contractual control. I will come back with more detail on the subject of pre-contractual control - and not only - on Tuesday, so that the views of Mera25 can be put to the debate and the debate on concrete amounts and that you have your views in general on the matter of pre-contractual control and all the relevant provisions. I must conclude by saying that unfortunately governmental law-making is still under way with a range of positive and toxic provisions. For example, in today's draft law, the Government brings down the amount over which legal control is enforced before the conclusion of a public contract financed either by national or Community resources, but at the same time also brings in provisions demonstrating the deep class concept of justice which the ruling court has. This draft law is the continuation of toxic governmental policy in the field of justice. On the one hand, it institutionalises the further work of judiciary by the executive, while on the other it gives even deeper class features to accessibility to justice, making it a constitutional check and an institutionalised right for all citizens to a privilege for a few who will ultimately have the economic potential to resort to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u22	What are the toxic provisions? I want you to tell me really.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u23	I think I've already made a reference in my speech. I shall come back to an article on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u24	I really want you to tell me what the toxic provisions are. And I'll fix them if you tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u25	However, because we always want to put forward proposals, you will soon receive - if not today, until Monday or next - a proposal of our own on the subject. We are a European country and we should try to integrate, in general, the pan-European framework. There are - and you know this better than I do - points and provisions which apply at the respective European audit conference, which have not yet passed on to Greece. It's something we're working on. You will shortly receive our proposals and here we will be, if we agree, adopted by all of us. After all of this - and to close with it - as Mera25 we will vote against the bill at first, while nevertheless supporting all of the individual articles that we consider to be positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. The President of the Greek Solution Mr Velopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a difficulty. For me, Mr. Tsiaras is perhaps the most sympathetic Minister of the New Democracy. I've known him for years. He's a very good man and an excellent scientist. But it's ruining my life today. It's ruining my ass again! He's ruining me with the non-governmental organizations. Why is he ruining it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u28	Nobody's perfect!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u29	No one's perfect. Clearly. But one is Chiaras! Let's talk about it. Let's go a little bit and talk about justice. Minister, I will read something from Kazantzakis, if we all think a little bit about it: 'Good is justice. But for the angels. The poor man cannot stand, he will be merciful." I'm starting this way because I want to report to a nine-year-old girl. A few minutes ago, I talked to the girl's mother, who passed out because she couldn't afford to buy a coup. I spoke with her an hour ago. She's a decent lady who worked a seasonal employee at a hotel and her child for a month couldn't eat properly. Nor did he ask for any money or he said 'Help me'. The Greeks are asking for a job. To produce wealth, to produce Greece not to faint nine-year-old children. Some may seem, my child, a little remote from our minds, but they happen every day, Minister, next to us what I'm telling you. I'm afraid so. And in front of her, I'm too young for the dignity that this woman showed. Decent. But I wonder, Minister, what I can tell her when your government gives every illegal immigrant 25,000 euros to yesterday's bill. You give EUR 25,000 if you open up a small business to every illegal immigrant who seeks asylum. He has the right to take 25,000 euros when a nine-year-old girl can't get a coup and fainted. [[Noise in the Chamber]] What you're listening to, Mr. Comrade. In yesterday's bill you weren't here, my colleague. There's a provision for 25,000 euros for asylum seekers to do business. Are we serious? And I won't tell about these images here. Minister, look at them. Mitaris sends money and the Muslims throw away food in Moria or anywhere, because they don't like it. They're dumping the food. And the Greek is hungry. And what does he want? He doesn't want charity. I was surprised by the woman. The Greek directly, he says, he doesn't need any help. He didn't even ask for 1 euro. Well, Mrs. Maria's well wherever she is, no matter where she is. I say this, and I hope there are no more Marias like Mrs Maria and the nine-year-old little girl, that the government will do something to stop giving from here and there allowances and direct assignments and millions of euros, and I do not know what else. Now listen. Open the program "EXTIA" to open the houses and host illegal immigrants and close the houses of the Greeks. These are incredible things. I thought the New Democracy would have a different attitude, because you also have a lot of people in there on the people's right. You're not all celebrities. You are not all in favour of'slapping out everything and giving it all for free'. Did you hear the news from the United States? Let me tell you now. Yesterday's publication 'GUARDIAN', Minister. You've heard. Americans lose their homes because they cannot pay the water that was privatized. Did you hear that? And you guys go sell the water. Don't you see them? Yesterday 'GUARDIAN'. Mr. Mitsotakis won't allow you to read international press? Only in the sale, can we say 'yes'? I'm telling you, because they're gonna be here in a few years. Then we may not be in here most of us. I may not be here, or you. They will be some others and they will say "these vicious, strange to blame" of the New Democracy or SYRIZA or the Movement of Change or any other party. Don't allow it, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Don't do it. Water is good. I do not say that 'leaving'. It's good, it's not a product, it's not a merchandise. Now let's go to the rest. Let's go to the Mioney, and I'll say that with disgust, Minister. I'm sick of talking about a man who was a tax man. It's disgusting. I have been checked by the ADAE for fifteen years and irregularly to some extent, but it did well. In 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 didn't find anything for me. This guy we found with millions of dollars owed to the tax office and went to Cyprus Minister of the Greek Government to chat with him. Do you understand that? We're talking about a tax collector. In America, Al Capone was caught for tax evasion. He was now an equal interlocutor of a government. It's disgusting. How do you talk to him and he's intercepting you? We're talking about a disgraceful talker's behavior, not to say a folklore. To speak with him privately? It's unbelievable. And where? In Cyprus. Now I'm starting to suspect that this story might be a little weird. In Cyprus, there is a law that forbids you from intercepting and making public. You'll tell me: "What are you looking for, Velopoulou?" Here the pre-inquiry is hidden and then the MPs come out of the pre-inquiry and make waiters to the journalists and we hear what one has said, what another has said. Is that a Parliament? Is that a preliminary question when everything's wrong? It is disgraceful that the Congressman should make the chess, the waiter of the publisher and journalists. It is shameful that a pre-inquiry will be done to summon him later and write his name, what a good thing the MP is. Honestly, I am sorry to wonder: does it turn out that if we go to elections in October, is Mr Pappa's offence not being recorded or recorded, if he has any offence? One election, two elections, law-based limitations, as far as I know. I am not a legal person and you are not a legal person, but as far as I know, the offence, no matter what happens, if there are elections soon. Two elections. So this whole set-up scene, why are you doing it? Explain to me, too. Is the Greek interested? Mrs. Maria from Rhodes, with her nine-year-old little girl, is interested in Mionis, the millionaire, the man who was on the Lagard lists, who no one paid for the millions of euros that were eaten, among us surnamed people in there? It is an honor to me that Harris Kastanides is here, the only one to fight for "SIEMENS", for which you have a great responsibility in the New Democracy for leaving Christoforikos free. The only Minister in the Greek Parliament who fought for "SIEMENS" and paid for it personally. Do you understand what you're doing with Mioney? Who's that man? A speculator, not to say a glue called "air"? That's Mioney, a taximan who should be in prison - if he has escaped tax provenly - and you're making him your interlocutor? Mioney said so, and they are in trouble and Mossad is in trouble with Israel. Countries are involved, Americans, FBI. Guys, people are hungry. Leave the FBI out. Finally, how many scandals did we not hear just before the elections go out weird and go to a pre-election period with scandals on the back? The gentlemen did this to you with Novartis. You were set up in New Democracy with the "NOVARTIS" elections. Didn't they set you up in the election? You did the same. You're the same, son, you're nothing different. Body from the body, flesh from the flesh, rotten to the medulla. These are not behaviors. I'm telling you, Minister, because you're a serious man and you have serious people, but at some point it has to stop this here. I don't believe in justice, Minister. Unfortunately justice is a tool of every government in Greece. Here's what we say: American model. That's it. There's no other way. The judge cannot pass through your own control, Minister, to be judge in the Areo Ice. That's not right, it's not compatible with logic. Let go of justice. Let it work properly. Of course, what I say to you was Plato in 430 B.C.E. What did he say? "The righteous, not what, or the carnivores', are." A performance in the simple Greek is: ‘Law is nothing but the interest of the mighty’. That's it. That's what's happening now, that's why people don't believe in justice. Worst? What are you doing? Each government brings ten justice bills. Multi-corruption leads to lawlessness. He wants simple laws. Cicero was saying - I imagine you know it - that pluralism leads to lawlessness, that it's not legislation. It creates 'bricks'. I honestly wonder if you've understood what we're doing here as a political system. I sometimes invoke numbers. I've got numbers in front of me, answering the Justice Department. It's off. Inmates in Greece. The Minister's reply: Of the eleven thousand fourteen fourteen prisoners, the fourteen thousand seventy-seven are Greeks, 41%. So you're telling me that 60 percent of the serious felonies and offenses are foreign.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u30	The Citizen's Department is answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u31	No matter who's answering. Is that true? It's true. Very good. Sixty percent. How many illegal immigrants does Greece or immigrants have, as you say them? One and a half million, two? The rest of them are Greek. If, therefore, 60% of prisoners are foreigners, that means that you are making Greece a man of crime by importing illegal immigrants. Just numbers. Pakistanis eight hundred twenty-three, Afghans four hundred twenty-three, Syrians four hundred eighty-three, Turks three hundred forty-two. Christ and God bless you! Send them back. Let them get out of here. Do we keep them and feed them and water them in our prisons? I'm telling you things to understand, because things are much harder than they seem. Now we're going to the most serious thing. Today I'm very happy. I won't say why. I have heard in the Foreign Affairs Council that the news is not good in relation to Egypt, but the government is not determined to go to a reduced influence. That's good. I'm talking about Kastelorizo. It's good. It means you're listening, and you're slowly braining that you're not going to the traps yourself. Of course, this is the occasion of Egypt's reaction. However, I cannot understand how the New Democracy colleagues tolerate a Doko being a Prime Minister's national security counselor and coming out publicly and saying: "We had to support Sarajevo and the Islamics. We poorly supported Haftar." Let the security adviser of the Greek Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy - to SKAI, please - say that we have wrongly supported Haftar, but did we have to support Saraj, who is Turkish-born, Turkish-friendly to his medulla? That's what Dokos says. Worst? We'll have to live with the Turklove Memorandum. He's this guy who talked about collapsing. Of course, there are many guys who talk about collapsing and speaking at times and walking in here now. My colleague, Mr Yiannis Loverdos, was also talking about a co-existence in his programmes, so that we do not forget. Many others were talking about co-existence. All this proves something very simple. So let's go to Mr. Dendia. Dendias on 1 June 2020: ‘Turkey illegal acts do not produce legal effects’. Dokos now tells us they produce results. The Foreign Minister says he does not produce the Turkish pact, and Mr Dokos says he produces it. In the Minutes, and this is because I sincerely want you to understand that the exercise of foreign policy is a very serious matter for the heart to be lightly exercised. I'm saying it to make people who don't believe. Your right not to believe what we say. Your right that you didn't believe in both '07 and '08 and '09 and '10 that I told you there was natural gas and oil in here. Harry Castanides is here. I've been talking about it ever since. Your right to say whatever you want. It is not your right, however, to share Greece's wealth with Turkey or Egypt or with another country. It's a mistake, it's a national crime. I will say this once again: you are visionating an international law, which does not exist, is in our imaginary round. I will tell you that International Law is a mere reason for one reason, because there is no mechanism to enforce international law by one body. The UN doesn't have an army. NATO doesn't have an army, there's just America. The European Union does not have an army. Understood. We are alone, we are alone and we will remain alone, because in NATO there are also the Turks who are our allies. So the Americans are asking the New Democracy to sell them - SYRIZA started it - the port of Alexandroupolis, not to buy 5G from the Chinese, to give them more bases. The French are asking to buy 3 billion Belharra freshmen. Israel wants to buy ELVO. I'm telling you what others want. The question is what we want. Have we asked for anything from all of them? The Americans anyway, all the governments... Pyatt was walking in here when an agreement was made with Italy. All governments, you are against them very competitive or, if you like, very interactive or very American-friendly. What's the point? The exchanges, what we get, what we get. Are we going to make an explicit commitment from the one we're going to get the guns that we're going to do co-production? Will we make an explicit commitment to a common defence tactic if the Turk attacks? So let's get them. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Free weapons systems don't take. Because there is a foreign policy of arms and armaments. Foreign policy is not Treasury making statements. It's the Treasury or the Minister or the Prime Minister, when he buys something, that there should be the defensive agreement to help our country. I say it very elegantly. Because now that we are talking, Turkey buys five hundred - or rather builds, no buys - it builds five hundred Kargu -2. Do you know who this is? I'll tell you what. They are flying, unmanned vehicles, without a pilot, five hundred please - not one and two - flying in a swarm and with small missiles, having an explosive console. Do you know what that means? That they're getting super armor in the air. And we're still with F-16 and Mirage, which want more weapons, want improvement, want upgrade, over a decade. And mostly, they make, manufacture, produce guns for the Turks with Italians and Germans. Yesterday it was published in "SPIEGEL" that Germany gave a third of its weapons construction to Turkey, and you believe that the Germans are our friends. A third of Germany's arms production absorbs it, and you believe that the Germans are our friends. That's not my logic. Let's get things cleared up at least. I shall close, Mr President, with the proposals of the Greek Solution. Our view: single defence doctrine with Cyprus, EEZ with Cyprus. Our view is that there are red lines. Anyone who attempts to pierce Greek soil, sea or land must either be destroyed or destroyed, as Florus said, or the ship should sink immediately. Cement wall on Evros. We're telling you now that there are always proposals. Integration in Turkish products - I've been saying it for months - with code 869. They're Turkish products, don't buy any of us and no Greeks. In 2019 we imported 2 billion euros from Turkey. And we should also close the Gardens so that Turkish goods don't pass. As it provokes, the archival, dictator, fascist Erdogan claims, you will answer diplomatically, commercially, financially, and if he goes to another phase of militaristic, you will answer the army that you have strong and you are ready to answer. Or you'll lose what you've got. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] It is our view and, above all, remember something, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, now that we are talking - unfortunately, that applies to all parties - at the Turkish consulate, it is a mess in Komotini. Ladies and gentlemen - I say this with soul pain - because there are cases in Ehino, to mobilize for racist behaviour by the Greek state - look for it a little further - that they are well isolated. And the Turkish consulate is enslaving it all. We need to be careful about this, and our view is given. Our brothers, Muslims, should not fall into the trap of the Turkish consulate, the provocator of Erdogan and every Erdogan. But the solution is one. Close the Turkish consulate to finish the wedge and stay our brothers quietly, hugged with the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Before entering the list of speakers, I would like to tell the Members that whenever Parliamentary representatives need to speak, they need to say so that they can speak alternately with the Members. We are now entering the list of speakers. Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos from New Democracy is the first speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Justice is taking place in the shadow of a toxic climate, a morbid surrounding atmosphere, which it occupies. I am referring to complaints and, in particular, to revelations, if they are true, about the functioning of a para-state mechanism, which, during the previous government, attempted to dismantle the fundamental distinction of powers. What is shocking to hear is attributed to SYRIZA Ministers for "magazies", "personal agents" and "leaves", if they are proved to be a raw interference in the work of justice, with the aim of undermining their political opponents. If applicable, it is a direct attempt to distort the functioning of the democratic culture, which is based on the separation of powers and on the independence of justice. Because we are not just talking about an outlawing ring, such as what has unfortunately been in the past, with jury judges, but about an operation to work justice for the spiral and demolishing of their political opponents. We are talking about dark behind the scenes, which are inconsistent with the rule of law. I hope that all this was indiscriminately the former Prime Minister and the Civilian Opposition will condemn these behaviours of their former ministers and remove them from her vagina. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the chronic diseases of justice is the delays in its performance, which sometimes reach the point of negativity, thus affecting its validity in the eyes of citizens. Excessive delay in the administration of justice undermines our judicial system and citizens' confidence in the pillar of democracy, which is independent justice. This, together with reduced credibility in executive and legislative power, is an ideal, I would say, incubator for the development of extreme anti-democratic perceptions. Justice must find a faster pace. It is incomprehensible that, like the Golden Dawn trial, they are delaying their completion. The Golden Dawn trial has been delayed for five years, when the Nuremberg trial was completed in one year or the junta's primary trial in five months. But what is the reason for this ganger of justice, its slow rates of performance? Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, in the years of the memoranda and the crisis, while we even had the imposition of dubiously effective arrangements, which were based on reforms, without any efficiency, such as the lengthening of the life of the fresh milk, there was no real reform in justice. The draft law under discussion dares to some of the areas to which I shall refer next. However, I am pleased, ladies and gentlemen, that the views expressed by the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Pikrammenos, and the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, Mr Pilotas, on the evaluation of judges, open up a debate to ensure that there is a reformed air in both the area of justice and that this is not only the annual condition for their promotion. But what is the result of delays in the administration of justice? The question was raised in the context of the hearing of senior judges in the form of an opinion of the Conference of Presidents of the Parliament on the fulfilment of the positions of the President and Vice-Presidents of the Ice Bay. The judicial officers themselves, Mr Minister, give the problem to the following five factors. First of all, to pluralism. Secondly, in the bi-commerce that we have as a society. Third, overpopulation of lawyers. Fourthly, in the absence of familiarity with extrajudicial procedures such as mediation and, fifthly, unjustified delays and inconsistency of judges in decision-making times. In fact, some have spoken of a misguided public mentality of judges and that disciplinarys are extremely diligent with those who are stalling, putting on the table and reintroducing the pay-back arrangement for those who delay decisions. In any case, Minister, a common place is the need to make inspection more essential by increasing the number of inspectors, but also the time of inspection, and also the rewarding of judges who have legal certainty and their decisions are not in the courts. Unfortunately, Minister, in recent years, there has been no digitisation of justice, which would help to deliver it more quickly. And, of course, we should look at the issues of pluralism and the promotion of mediation of a successful institution in the Anglo-Saxon law that will dismantle the courts. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today, although one can say that most of it is technical, has at least three important regulations that can be described as reforming steps. Firstly, the introduction of sections which will avenge more rapidly assumptions of major economic interest, such as investments in energy and telecommunications. I think I don't have to argue on this, we all understand how suspensive investments work. The country needs investment, it needs a favourable investment climate and the Mitsotakis Government, as it has committed itself, is making the conditions for investment. Secondly, the introduction of the Judge-Rapporteur, which will also alleviate the problem of court congestion, which most of the judges we heard at the Conference of Presidents, have agreed. The third reform provision, which should of course be self-evident, is the creation for the first time of a statistical data service in justice. Without reliable statistical data, it is impossible to identify pathogens and to design long-term and effective policies in justice. With these considerations, Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Legislative Decree of the Ministry of Justice and I congratulate its leadership, because this is another step towards modernization in the field of justice. However, Minister, Secretary-General, justice, which is the dismantling of every weak citizen, any wrongdoing man seeking his right, must still take many steps to speed up its award. I hope these steps will be taken on your day, on the days of our Government, by the Government of Mr Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u34	Thank you too, Mr. Harakopoulou. Mr. George Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been expecting more attention than my previous colleague, the serious, wise and extremely sympathetic Mr Harakopoulos, when it comes to 'data' that has not even been investigated by justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u36	I said three times, if they get verified and if they do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u37	Unfortunately, however, ladies and gentlemen, the attitude of the New Democracy in the scandalous 'NOVARTIS' case, as this is a scandal, shows a lack of respect for the rule of law and the independence of justice and at the same time demonstrates that the property logic of the New Democracy for the State is extended to the constitutionally established independent judicial function. It is obvious that the New Democracy is attempting to cover the "NOVARTIS" scandal by turning it into the SYRIZA case and then the revelations included in documents deposited in the Committee of Inquiry, which investigates this case, to turn it into a "paratrical" SYRIZA case. Because the New Democracy operation so far has been attempting to cover the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, it is attempting to blur water. This is a distraction on its part, since things are not going well for the government in any area, and I am thinking above all of the economic sector, the non-publishment of the distribution of resources allocated to the media, etc. Unfortunately, the New Democracy does not give a damn about the validity of justice and the dignity of judiciary officials and the respect that justice must enjoy from the Greek people. He's breaking rules, slandering and involved in court officers in the case. You see that as soon as there is the slightest judicial action for any New Democracy official and PASOK, a lawsuit is filed against the competent judicial officer. That's unprecedented. In short, the New Democracy creates a morbid atmosphere, with no interest in the truth but in covering the scandal. This morbid atmosphere - and you have forgotten to say that, Mr Harakopoulos - is exacerbated by the threats of the Minister of Government, Adoi Georgiadis, to the prosecutor of corruption. He said he was going to jail. They are statements and threats of a government official against a judiciary who, in fact, investigates his actions or omissions in relation to the NOVARTIS scandal. Infringement of Union and Greek law and the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights and at the same time offended justice and democracy. Let's come to the bill now. The Court of Auditors is one of the highest courts in the country. Its task is to control the costs of the State and of the TAs, in order to ensure the sound and clear management of the state wealth, to deal with the smuggling of public money and corruption, and thus not to undermine the country's economic history. Homogenisation, codification of the dispersed procedural legislation for the Court of Auditors is a positive development that is welcomed by everyone. He said, of course, that the Minister in his speech at the last meeting of the committee that while there is agreement in principle, details are being invented for opposition. That is not the case, Minister. These details have been developed by our rapporteur. However, I would say that the general agreement on the bill does not mean that there is an agreement on the general viewpoint of justice being dealt with by the government. This general approach has so far been recorded in the government's realities and is reflected in what the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government said at the Delphi Forum. As far as the events of the government are concerned, I should like to remind you of the increase in the number of presidents of the year and the simultaneous reduction in these perpetrators, i.e. judiciary judges, who are 'handling the car' under particularly difficult circumstances. The increase in expenditure on recourse to justice. which is partly the case with this bill, in particular with the obligation to pay a judicial notice to all actions of the multi-purpose court, vertically increasing the cost of recourse to justice, when in the days of the SYRIZA Government the expenditure of a judicial document for all actions had been abolished and 50% the expenditure on the declarant actions of labour disputes had been reduced. This is the way in which the citizen is being brought to justice, which is and must be the last refuge of the weak, grounded, excluded, but also of the middle-class citizen, whom you have said a great deal during the election period and you are still announcing, but you are only announcing. I would also like to remind you of the transfer of the penitentiary policy to the Ministry of Civil Protection, the change in the criminal codes before they can be implemented, the immunity you offer the bank executives. And to say here that we are talking about bank executives who are known to be the period of furniture prosperity and the crisis were sponsoring "seawater", credit and wild in the media and in the parties of the ND and PASOK. It should be recalled that the country's bankruptcy and its monumental policies are due to the triangle of interlocutory, banks, the media and then the bipartite system of the New Democracy and the PASOK, which has broken public money and then led to repeated bank recapitalisations to the detriment of taxpayers. In addition, I would remind you of the release of assets of persons who have committed serious felonies of the 'white collar' and even, in order to underline your class position, of the dismantling of the courts through the limitation and cessation of the criminal prosecution, you have excluded offences, such as disruption of the auctions, when you have not yet determined whether there will be protection of the first home. And finally, for example, the suspension of the application of social benefits as a self-sacrificial penalty, which involves - it is well known - a logic of conscientiousness not by means of imprisonment but by means of provision of work, that is to say offering to the community as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u38	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u39	I shall conclude, Mr President. As far as the general approach is concerned, this is reflected, as I have said before, in what the Vice-President of the Government said at the Delphi Forum, which is not only different from our own approach but also unconstitutional as all judicial associations have pointed out. The separation of judges on a regular and in-service basis and the abolition of equilibrium run counter to basic constitutional requirements, ensuring the personal and operational independence of judges. Unfortunately, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the justice you intend and plan to create are two speeds. The speeds relate to both the bodies that give it, the items of investigation, trial and judgment, but also to other features, such as the cost and the timing of its award.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u40	Good, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u41	In this context, it is also part of the creation of departments to deal with multiannual cases involving investments, as provided for in this draft law. Justice is a pillar of democracy, of democracy, and we must all preserve its independence as an eyewitness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Georgios Kotrias from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that, together with the Areo Ice and the Council of State, the Court of Auditors is one of the three highest courts in the country, controls the costs of public and local government, and looks at pensions and accounting differences. I have served local government as the mayor for several years and can transfer my experience from the relationship that the municipalities had with the local representatives of the Court of Auditors, as well as with the Central Court of Auditors. I am passing away, and let me stress and make it clear that every mayor with his services feels safe with the pre-contractual audit of the Court of Auditors, because when you manage money and projects, you always have a fear of being involved in mismanagement. At the same time, however, you want the project to be promoted quickly, because it is what you are judged of. It is true, therefore, that the role of the local Commissioners of the Court of Auditors, in the majority of them, was rather constructive with two problems: firstly, the delay in controls due to a lack of staff and a heavy burden, and secondly, the problem of pluralism and ambiguity, since in the event of disagreement on a matter, there was no uniform treatment from all the regional departments of the Court of Auditors throughout Greece. Each one gave its own interpretation to the law, with many important development issues being referred back to the departments and plenary sessions of the Court of Auditors and thus being charged with long delays in very important projects. So what do we need today? Answer: we need all the case law to be consolidated and codified and all the Court of Auditors services to give the same answers and quickly. Does this bill work? I'm answering again. Yes, to a large extent, because, in short, it encodes functions of justice, ensures transparency, effective control and, ultimately, speeding up procedures. Let's see how that works. The provisions of the first section attempt to unify and update a procedure to be broken down into multiple legislation, such as the Code of Laws on the Court of Auditors ratified by the first article of Law No 4129/2013, but also a procedure of incomplete law, which will initially refer to the Code of Civil Procedure and from 2006 onwards to the Code of Administrative Procedure. Some, of course, things have improved. But it's not enough. Thus, in the first part of the first section of the draft law, a single procedural text for the Court of Auditors is established, covering an important gap with provisions aimed at simplifying the procedure before the Court of Auditors by removing complex institutions which make access difficult. The provisions of the first section as a whole with the acceleration expected to have in the procedures of the Court of Auditors will also indirectly contribute to the national economy because of the nature of this Court of Auditors, which, as you know, is the pre-contractual control of major public works contracts. The second part of the draft law establishes an integrated legislative framework for pre-contractual control. It is, of course, a matter of small codification, but of the existing arrangements which have been introduced to date occasionally and without consistency with each other, so that they can be user-friendly and to remove the contradictions between them. The provisions of the second section of the draft law are now necessary to rationalise the limits of the pre-contractual control, while simplifying the procedures for carrying out those checks, so as to make it easy for contracting authorities and interested parties, of course, by introducing innovations, such as the court’s ability to refer to the assistance of experts in clarifying the often complex technical issues encountered in the control and awarding of a case. Finally, I will refer to the three specific sections which are created, first of all, by electronic communications, secondly by energy and third by personal data, whose establishment was also the establishment of the European institutions, which believe that by establishing them and establishing them they will give credibility to the Greek legal system, since they will, in essence, contribute to speeding up the procedures, upgrading Greek justice, and finally to development, because - bad lies, ladies and gentlemen - investors want to know the first thing they want to know is if they invest there is a credible and rapid system of justice. In conclusion, I have attended our meetings in the Committee on Public Administration and Justice and in the previous speeches the sensitivities of many colleagues, as far as the level of public procurement by the NRP is concerned, which should be checked by contract. Ladies and gentlemen, any of my fellow Members who have been in command, I believe they will agree with me that we should always, alongside transparency and legality, give the value that must also be given to the efficiency factor. We are, of course, very pleased by the fact that we have increased controls, but at the same time at the same time pushing the system to a halt. So I believe that, as much as we improve through the Court of Auditors' bill, if we eventually lower the control limit from EUR 10 000 000 to EUR 5 000 000, we will double the burden of the Court of Auditors and we will finally have - let me say it - a hole in the water in relation to the target. What's the target? It is its upgrading and speeding up its operation, of course, in relation to the development of our country. And I fear that we will experience another period of completion of issues that are directly related to the absorption of European funds for projects and for actions, which are tools for national development. With these thoughts which have been based in many of my own self-government experience, I am sure that this bill takes important steps in codification and speeding up the administration of justice by the Court of Auditors and I think it should be supported by all of Parliament's wings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u44	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mrs. Evangelia Lykoulis from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are the special category of Members who come from the Tropical Room, and what we are bringing you to the Chamber is a unique and unprecedented experience, which shocks every parliamentary person who has been in that Chamber these hours, in a Chamber with a particularly valuable weight, Mr Minister, as the Tropical Chamber has been linked to the signature of the first post-multiple constitution after the fall of the junta and, of course, our democracy there when it was permanently established, what he expected was not to hear again and not to happen to her what we all see going through these days. We, all those days that the Committee of Inquiry meets in the Tropical Room, see a democracy as a shadow to move on racket, licking its wounds, a democracy that seeks to find the shops and to group them, the bosses and the employees, the prints and the agents, a democracy that seeks to find animus. And I've told you before, Minister, from this step forward that you, your ministry, have the role of corpus with all that you legislate, you have the special merit of defending all that we see these days at stake. If all that we hear is true is true, who can, in truth, rejoice with it and what parliamentary man with experience or without can say that this is about one single person? No, ladies and gentlemen. I think it is about the whole of our political system, and I think it really should be a start to change with serious political moves in the direction that we want our worthy system to operate. Very serious things have happened over the past few days and, unfortunately, justice, Minister of Justice, appears to be a multi- trauma after a frontal car accident. We can't count the sources and we don't really know where to get blood to live. You have many responsibilities, and we will have to safeguard, in particular, this idea of democracy at its core, as you know very well that you have this responsibility and the burden. Today we have a breath in the Chamber. The stirring atmosphere of the Tropical Hall does not apply here. Because here today, ladies and gentlemen, we are proving that we can function as a political system many times and work together in an elementary manner at legislative level. A government can take the doggy out of the former's hand and walk on the same road without having to feel like it's running. The state has an elementary follow-up. It is a message that we are sending out today and it is a message that is important. We must be able to overcome our evil self and reflexive, unnecessarily political turbulences or retrospective battles, do our work seriously and responsibly, without arrogance, without any remarks, only because someone else proposes it. The bill you brought to debate is essential for the quality of democracy and the modernisation of the operation of one of its pillars, in this case of justice and, in particular, for the Court of Justice. It is a bill prepared by the previous government to establish a single text of procedure for the Court of Auditors. The whole effort began then, in 2018. It went into a more comprehensive design in new times, which I, at least, want to believe has been introduced with new requirements, with new data. It is indeed necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to update the institutional framework, especially when a fundamental obligation is to pursue fiscal transparency, impartiality and the provision of a stable and modern framework of equal opportunities. We have a great deal of honor, to have a reformer among us, Harry Kastanides, and even to the PASOK governments who, with the initiatives taken by the two Ministers of Justice, the 2009-2012 reform government by Haris Kastanidis and Miltiades Papaioannou, the key law 4055/2012 on fair trial and the reasonable duration of it, opened roads and we are happy that this historical burden is also a worthwhile burden. Of course, it is not the only sign of writing. It is not the only proof that our movement over time was the country's reformist power. We have always aimed at overcoming. Many times we have covered gaps and logical contradictions, as you must do. Today, the legislation that we are discussing puts us in the process of 'closing quietly and simply'. And that's a message. This, of course, does not mean that we are going to lead to reciprocity, that we will not eliminate conflicts between ourselves or different perspectives. We have special remarks, Minister, to a bill in which we agreed and to the work done by both our rapporteur and the members of the committee. We do not need to have an article 363 on suspending the application of the Code of Justice of the Armed Forces. And because it's a special matter, and people don't understand us, what did you want to do here when they say it's photographic?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u46	Applicable law after constitutional change. We've said that, Mrs. Liikali.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u47	But you're told it's about two people. But you will say it, Minister, but I want to hear it and listen to it too. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The service odor on this topic ruins all the substance, it spoils your picture, something you don't want! I will follow your further explanations with great interest. And I think you'll review her at least when it comes to her photo. [[At this point the First Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The amendment tabled by the Change Movement is a substance amendment. You saw her! Because I know you, Minister, and I understand that you too want to go ahead with the privileged ranking of workers in bankruptcy distribution - I met it in Larissa, I handled these cases and we have hundreds of workers affected by this procedure - I would ask you very much to see the issue because it falls within common sense. This has to be done and you need to see it again. You should have brought it on your own initiative, because I think it belongs to automatic rightful policy. And I come to the last thing I want to do. As regards, Mr President, the privileged party, when there is the public, as many times as we have discussed this, we have unfortunately never managed to reduce the imbalance of powers and its circumvention between constitutional discrimination. We must take steps in this respect, since historically we also have an obligation. Do you know why? Because when we do not, Minister, we leave Parliament's Chamber and go back to the Tropical Tropical Room to happen what is now happening there. And I'm sure you don't want that at all. Well, we certainly don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u48	Mrs Mani Papadimitriou, Member of the New Democracy, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors was established in 1833, almost at the same time as the Greek state. Since then, it has been a particularly important institution, directly integrated with democracy, fiscal transparency and society itself. His uninterrupted function since his establishment so far demonstrates the need for his existence and the value of his work, which, on the one hand, ensures sound financial management and, on the other, strengthens citizens' confidence in the administration. In spite of its importance, its constitutional legitimacy and its uninterrupted presence in the legal order for almost a hundred years, the Court of Auditors has not had its own case to date, which makes it difficult for the law-makers, judges and lawyers and thus for citizens to have recourse to it. This important gap comes to cover today the Ministry of Justice with the draft legislation under discussion, which incorporates in a single text the scattered procedural arrangements that existed in various legislations or were applied mutatis mutandis by the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Administrative Procedure. And that is why they deserve congratulations to you too, Minister, as of course to your worthy colleagues, because it is a problem literally - and I mean that - a history. The Court of Auditors shall now acquire its own procedural procedure. It is a modern piece of legislation that clearly regulates the functioning of the court and strengthens transparency in the area of public spending, ensuring that the administration is given responsibility, but above all in terms of governed legal certainty. More importantly, these arrangements bear the stamp of the Court of Auditors, namely the highest judicial officers in this court, who are aware of their needs, problems and function better than anyone else. Ladies and gentlemen, the new procedure of the Court of Auditors includes, first of all, a number of provisions, which respond to the greatest problem facing Greek justice, and it is no longer the delay in the adoption of judgments, which some may sometimes consider to be vetoing the limits of veto. The introduction of the rapporteur's institution - a judge who will now have the full administrative file of the trial on the day of the judiciary, the enhanced role of the President of the Chamber, who will be able to distribute the cases by subject category, identify the obviously unacceptable or unfounded applications, as well as the growing number of cases discussed at a council rather than at the hearing, are only some of the arrangements of the draft law which will help speed up the trial. And all this without prejudice to the rights of the parties and with full respect for the principle and requirements of fair trial. Furthermore, Articles 340 et seq. strengthen the Court of Auditors’ audit mission by setting up a new audit department and conferring three new powers on the Court of Auditors, identifying pathogens in critical areas of public management, assessing the reliability of the internal audit systems of the public administration, and carrying out audits following a Parliament decision. I would like to focus a little on the innovative provision of Article 343, which introduces the possibility of the House for the first time in the Greek legal order, asking the Court of Auditors to prioritise one of the planned checks or even to carry out other than planned checks up to three years per year. In reply to the objections mainly to the Officer's opposition, therefore, the regulation allegedly violates the principle of separation of powers, I would point out that the Court of Auditors is not bound by this proposal of the House. In other words, it is up to the discretion of whether or not to carry out the audit proposed to it as a matter of priority. And in any case, this is a regulation that is found in almost all European countries. Moreover, particularly important are Articles 359 and 360, which provide for the possibility of setting up special sections in the major prototypes and appeals of Athens and Thessaloniki for cases concerning electronic communications, energy and personal data. Such legislative initiatives are an important precedent for the economic development of the country, for the benefit of the investments that our country, businesses, but much more for the benefit of the workers and therefore the entire Greek people need today. Finally, another major innovation is the establishment of a Office for the Collection and Processing of Judicial Statistics. This directorate of the Ministry will gather and process statistics so that the Ministry's leadership can have a full picture of the situation of justice in our country with figures and objective data. And, of course, it is a first-class opportunity to take corrective action concerning the organisation and functioning of the courts wherever and where necessary. On this point, Minister, I would like to point out that the jump of the New Democracy Government towards the country's digital reconstruction, and in this case the Ministry of Justice, will have to deal with it globally. And I'll explain what I want to say. For example, Minister, I think it is necessary to train judges in handling digital media, and it is also necessary to extend interoperability between the ministries' services so that the information they need in every service can be obtained in good time and in good time, to leave the anachronistic staff mail in order to have economic benefits and, of course, to speed up decision-making. In addition to that, there should also be technical support for all of them from permanent specialised staff, at least in the large primary courts, not to call, for example, on the Court of First Instance of Katerina technically from Thessaloniki to see the error that may arise in a computer or a program. I am sure that all this will be dealt with immediately, as you have assured us. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is fully modernising the important institution of the Court of Auditors, speeding up the adoption of its decisions and establishing the use of electronic means to carry out its own decisions. This is another important legislative initiative by the government that strengthens fiscal transparency and strengthens the rule of law, necessary conditions for the economic development and progress of our country. That is why I am voting in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u50	So let me give you a briefing. There are fourteen colleagues left to speak, the parliamentary representatives and the Minister. The Minister told me that he wanted to speak after Mr Kalamatano - to get ready to come - and, of course, I suppose the parliamentary representatives are waiting to hear the Minister start their speeches too. If we stay as we go well disciplined, around 6 o'clock in the afternoon, we'll logically be done. Mr. Kalamatian Dionysius, MP SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, why does the first circle of speakers not end first? Why shouldn't it end?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u52	The Minister asked me to speak after Mr. Kalamatiano. All right, if he heard you and I had him take it back, no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u53	I don't think he heard me because he's busy. Aren't you asking him, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u54	Okay, if Mr. Kalamatianos is finished, Mr. Pafile, but you parliamentary representatives want to hear the Minister speak, that's what I see.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u55	Okay, now for two speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u56	All right, let's go until...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u57	End the first cycle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u58	All right, as long as I'm going to ask the Minister to speak until Mr. Giokas and then take the floor. Here you go, Mr. Kalamatiane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall also refer to the issue of topicality, because they have also been mentioned by colleagues in the New Democracy. The legislative body, the lawmakers in the country, the extreme reproduction and the adoption of fragmentary and selective leaks illegally recorded private chat, which is also arbitrary. It is hard for us to adopt and interpret the contents of this illegal recording before the competent bodies decide on the legality and completeness of the contents. We must, however, be placed and condemned - because Mr Charakopoulos mentioned earlier the distinction between powers - the public position of a minister, who has unprecedentedly threatened a public prosecutor. He said, therefore, that he should be convicted of a long term prosecution officer, who even controls him. This is an institutional problem, Minister, and we must all take a stand. We all have to take a stand on this institutional problem. Intervention and threat of imprisonment by the prosecutor by a Minister strengthens the foundations of the rule of law and of our own democracy. We must therefore take a stand on this very important blow. On many occasions, Minister, we have asked you to place yourself on the issue of injustice against lawyers. Lawyers for three months had closed the courts, only received the sum of EUR 600. From this point of view, the Prime Minister himself made a commitment to receiving the sum of EUR 800. They never got it. And we ask: have you recommended personal support measures for lawyers? Some such measures would be the exemption from the trade fee and the reduction of VAT on legal services, proposals with which the plenary session of lawyers is also in agreement. You must at some point respond to the polypathic and multitude of lawyers who have been particularly affected by the pandemic. The courts are therefore closed from the beginning of March. The extension of the judiciary until the end of July is not a solution to the problem. In fact, lawyers will work at the beginning of the new court year. If you are concerned with this, you are due as a government to support them in practice. The large majority of lawyers significantly reduced their income during the memorandum period. But now, because of the pandemic, they have a survival problem. They are therefore awaiting the implementation of the prime and government commitment to substantial support. I now come to the bill, which, although it is a code, has not been introduced in accordance with the code procedure and has not been sufficiently explained. In the provisions on pre-contractual control, we obviously agree with the reduction of the financial and quantitative limits and the expansion of control. However, the Court of Auditors' services should be strengthened by staff, so that the audits are directly and promptly carried out. The country comes from a deep 10-year economic crisis caused by the bankruptcy of 2009-2010. The report by the Minister of Finance for a recession of 16% is causing new nightmares. The dismantling of public money must be excluded in every way. Accounting for where each euro goes from the Greek people is an undeniable necessity. We are, of course, waiting, until today, for the government's representative to be announced to the Greek people, the sums of money that went to the media. In fact, the list of means shows that no websites or low-responsibility websites have been funded and we expect to see what funds have been received from each instrument so that we can see in what criteria and in what opaque ways the money has been shared. Respect for the Greek people and control of all expenditure must in practice be proved. In this connection, we repeat that even now you should reintroduce the distinction of the financial limits for TATs. The amounts planned should be reduced in relation to the TAs and the control should be as wide as possible. I now come to Articles 359 and 360, which introduce special chambers into the political and administrative courts. These will preferably consist of judges with specialisation or special experience in this category of disputes. This experience will result either from relevant postgraduate and doctoral qualifications or from previous related activities. Those cases concern the national and Union law on electronic communications, energy and the protection of personal data. In those specific sections, in fact, according to the bill you entered, other cases may be introduced if, in the judgement of the Third Chamber of the Courts, this is required on account of the service needs. At a time when justice is touching the limits of veto, you are giving priority to cases related to specific investors and entrepreneurs. You are not interested in the whole of entrepreneurship, for workers, for vulnerable social groups. Accelerating justice, however, cannot be the subject of political service. Accelerating justice must be done for all citizens. It is necessary for you to proceed directly to the adoption of holistic measures that will bring tangible results, not to bring in fragmentary measures to serve an economic elite. In addition, the bill adds that these new chambers will be run by judges with high formal qualifications and multiannual experience. You thus create discrimination, castes among the judicial officers at risk of breaking down the single judiciary. In addition, the creation of these sections will dismantle the other sections, thus further delaying the administration of justice. It must be understood that poor legislation will have adverse effects for several years after the functioning of justice. Unfortunately, any mistakes are agitating citizens and society. We're not against investments. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. We are not against investment, but there can be no selective distinction between entrepreneurship and citizens. There is a provision in the bill for these special sections and for cases to be judged by the three-member administration of the Court of First Instance. On what criteria, however, will this decision be taken? How objectively will these criteria be? Each court may have quite different criteria as to which cases it will be subject to these Chambers. This regulation also violates the concept of a natural judge and equality before the law. Justice is an institution that passes every manifestation of political and social life, runs every component of the state and cannot be changed at will and, where appropriate,. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that justice must be at the heart of its priorities for all citizens. Justice is the last refuge for the citizen, especially the weak, the wrongdoer. We must consistently protect its prestige. Two speed and two quality justice cannot be tolerated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u60	Good. There's gonna be a slight adjustment. The Minister will speak after the first cycle is closed. In other words, my friend, Mr. Simopoulos, MP of the New Democracy, will now speak, then Mr. Ioannis Giokas, from the Communist Party of Greece, closing the cycle of the alternating speakers. Then the Minister will speak and we shall continue with the speakers or with any parliamentary representative who wants the floor. Here, Mr Simopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, first of all I promise you that I will say nothing about the JRC. At the end of my speech I shall make a proposal with which he can agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u62	That will, however, be a fact in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u63	It'll be a fact. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to this bill, but to some of its points, mainly concerning pre-contractual control, a pre-contractual audit, which I have experienced as a member of the government, because we have often been ready to sign important contracts for important projects, and we have awaited the Court of Auditors' decisions. We were waiting for them, but too many times they were very late. This draft law therefore has the advantage of speeding up these procedures. It puts dilemmas, encodes provisions and issues that will surely speed up this whole process. Of course, I expect to see the Court of Auditors' relationship with the Single Authority for Public Contracts. There is one case-law, which says that the Court of Auditors' decisions are outweighed, but perhaps there should be some legislation, which will, if you like, clarify the dispute. We must decide whether or not the Single Authority for Public Procurement takes precedence over the Court of Auditors. As far as I know - without being an expert - there is a case-law that the Court of Auditors takes precedence over it. I would also like to highlight some provisions, such as Article 324, which rightly incorporate into the Court of Auditors' procedure - because this also means transparency - and contracts relating, for example, to a public-sector building market. So far, as far as I know, it has not existed. The same is true of the real estate of the GOI or of the Green Fund contracts. So, integrating the Court of Auditors' procedure and these actions, I think we are promoting transparency. We also see, through Article 326, that the deadline for decisions is 'three days'. There is, of course, always the problem that more information is often requested. In fact, no further evidence is needed, just to extend the 30-day deadline. It is an issue which I believe we must resolve. In the right direction, the bill on external partners or consultants, which the Court of Auditors can use and, finally, on sections such as energy and telecommunications, which I absolutely believe will help speed up the implementation of certain investments. I now come to the point, which I mentioned at the outset. It is a matter that concerns too many of our fellow citizens. In particular, this is the incident that happened in Rhodes. I have already proposed it - and now - from the most official Step, which is the one in this House, the school meals which were taken as a decision in the right direction and, in my opinion, partly failed to be given to school candles. So we will help ten thousand microprofessionals and, on the other hand, avoid this process of objections between some major companies, objections which brought about too many months this year, municipalities in western Thessaloniki not having school meals. School meals are modest today. Many of them end up in the trash cans. Also, I would stress that students with a problem are waiting late until 12: 00 and 13: 00 to be given the school meal and do not have a brunch. The school committees are sensitive, obviously. It's their kids. They can better manage the same money. In other words, I am not asking for the Ministry of Labour to increase the budget for this action, but rather for it to go much better. I also think that the co-operation of the canteens with the school committees can also lead to cooperation between some catering shops in the local municipalities. I believe that many aspects of this House can contribute to this effort. Apparently, she needs a treatment. Obviously, he also wants the Ministry to have no fear that SYRIZA - because SYRIZA's initiative was school meals and is in the right direction - will react, saying that school meals will not be given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u64	I too, Mr Simopoulos, for keeping time. We close the first cycle with Mr. Ioannis Giokas from the Communist Party of Greece. Here, Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u65	I have taken the floor to refer to the amendment tabled by the JRC's parliamentary group on transparency in the management of public advertising, which goes to the media. It is an issue that has dealt with public dialogue many times, and now also in the past, which has been exploited and exploited for disorientation and which, above all, is being exploited to shape the governments' information control mechanisms, together with, of course, the media owners. A climax of this phenomenon was the famous "lista Petsa" and the management of the 20m euros advertising expenditure for the pandemic, in which expenditure has been made up of cunning funding situations of unexistent sites and for which the government continues to do the ice and does not account for what went and where. The current responsibility of the New Democracy, of course, does not acquit the responsibility of previous governments, and of PASOK and SYRIZA, who have exploited one or other of these practices and similar instruments, because everyone wants to maintain an opaque mechanism for manipulating the Greek people, a mechanism for embracing their policy. They have even greater responsibility, because they have shaped and maintained a perforated legislative framework, which has allowed and allowed this immunity. Of course, we have no illusions that the amendment we tabled will solve the problem. However, it is an amendment which sets out a few minimum and minimum rules, which, at least not least, require the Greek people to know how their money is being used. The first paragraph of the amendment stipulates something which, for the JRC, is very serious and we had said so at the very first moment when the acts of legislation on pandemic started to be discussed in Parliament. What is this issue? It is the prediction that messages relating to the protection of public health, protection against serious risks, a threat, such as a pandemic, and the information of the Greek people, cannot under any circumstances be transmitted in terms of advertising campaigns. In these cases, therefore, messages should be transmitted, registered or posted - depending on the instrument - compulsory and free of charge. The existing legislative framework provides for this to be done - it is a ministerial decision of the previous SYRIZA government - under certain conditions, but only for broadcasting. We say it is done for all the media, newspapers, site and so on. In all other cases, where there is a need for advertising expenditure on the promotion of the activity, the ministries of public and public sector bodies and the former ECIs, referred to in the amendment as contracting authorities, this should be done in terms of full transparency, on objective criteria, without unacceptable exclusion and without any subsidy for non-existent means, creating conditions that directly refer to conciliation. These criteria must be formulated - this is not the case with this amendment - so that they can be supported, first. In the media, the vast majority of those working in jungle conditions, and, secondly, to support small businesses, especially in the regional and local press, which have been smashed by all governments in a number of measures to support a process of concentration and concentration in the information sector. On the basis of the above, it is therefore established that all types of public advertising expenditure should be published in detail, by amount and by means of the media, directly, within 10 days of the signing of the relevant contracts, on the website of the Secretariat-General for Information and Communication and that the situation in question should be delivered to the relevant Committee on Institutions and Transparency in Bulgaria, in order to be fully aware of what means it has received State advertising, what amount it has received for this advertising and not to be essentially at the discretion of any government to do so. In order to effectively implement the above rules on the public advertising expenditure disclosure, it is laid down that, if the above conditions are not met, the relevant contracts are to be cancelled and the sums paid to the media are to be searched for. In addition, the omission of publicity and the avoidance of the search for the above amounts, in the event of the annulment of the contracts concerned, also entails the criminal prosecution of the responsible natural persons and the threat to them of imprisonment, unless other penalties are provided for under the Civil Service Code. In particular, the expenditure paid for the promotion of advertising within 2020, but also in implementation of the relevant acts of legislation to address the pandemic, provides that contracting authorities shall take the action referred to in the preceding subparagraph within five days of the publication of this paragraph. In other words, the regulation on this notorious list should be made public within five days of the publication of this document, with the corresponding penalties provided for in the other subparagraphs. Finally, the amendment provides, within three months, for compulsory data to be deposited, over a period of 10 years, to see for these ten years where they went, what means and how much was given by the Greek people's money. Therefore, 'here is Rhodes' for those who say that you are concerned about transparency, to vote on the JRC's amendment, for which no party from yesterday's publicity has been given a position. Again, I would like to say that we have no illusions that the problem will be tackled radically, a problem that is much deeper, has to do with the symphony of urban governments, of the same state as the big business interests, which are part of the various media. Of course, this symphony is not only seen in the part of the relationships that all governments sought by large media. It seems above all of their policy, it is apparent from the bills that vote and such a bill are today, which are cut and sewn in the cheques of the major business groups for the functioning of justice and which is voted on by both the New Democracy and by SYRIZA and the Change Movement. It also seems from the parade of scandals, which we have seen these days, the whole stench of the intercepts, the passages, the secret meeting of Ministers with various entrepreneurs, the gifts that are made in foreign countries, the charismatics, it says, to Bibi and Netanyahu. All this is nothing less than the symptoms of a deep sepsis of the present system and of the current state, which, on one hand, feeds big businessmen and, on the other, undermines the needs of the people, of a people who have to pay for another capitalist economic crisis and which must rise up to prevent it from paying again. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u66	Minister, a request. Because Mr. Davakis with his prefecture bodies have a meeting with the Interior Minister, he wants to take the floor for three, four minutes - he doesn't want any more - to get away from the date.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u67	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Davakis, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is currently fighting hard to shield the economy, the development of our productive model and the rapid return to growth. Accelerating administrative justice is a key component of this effort. So, as is the case today, an administrative case, such as an investment, for example, can be delayed for up to four hundred and fifty days. The economy, the unemployed, the middle class can no longer wait so long. We can and we must reduce this time. Every reform effort in the field of justice is a balance between the need for rapid award and the right of citizens to access the courts and to depletion of all judicial instruments. The bill that this government brings, and particularly in the area of justice, where it may try to change bad texts, achieves a golden section between these two criteria. This is illustrated by two, three articles which I shall mention now. Article 89 introduces the institution of the Judge-Rapporteur, who will take care of the completeness of each case file. Articles 90 to 93 define the role of the President of the Chamber, who will monitor cases and ensure that they are heard as quickly as possible. Article 339 reorganises the departments of the Court of Auditors in order to make it more efficient and to better share the various cases between them. I would also like to refer to an issue, Mr President, which has been raised on several occasions by many colleagues, on which our e-mail has been overwhelmed and which has been discussed both in plenary and in committee. Legislative power must approach issues relating to the family and its functioning with wisdom, but also with scientific foundation. Children are our future, the future of the place and the provision of better conditions for their upbringing and development is a crucial social and also huge political issue. In this context, I understand the demands of those who claim compulsory conscientiousness, although I do not always agree with the way they do it. It is known that diligence court decisions are many times and statistically unequal. It is also known that, unfortunately, children, especially in cases of intense conflict between divorced parents, are being converted into pressurised tools with traumatic results. In this context, I welcome the commitment of the Minister of Justice, Mr Chiara, to end up in the autumn with a legislative proposal on the subject of conscientiousness. It is an existing social question, to which we must answer. The answer we need to give, Mr President, is not at least, in my view, obvious. A criterion of whatever solution must be, I believe, exclusively the interests of children. What is more good for their development and personality and future, based on the findings of psychology and cognitive science? There, I believe, should be emphasised by the Ministry's Legislative Committee. I therefore look forward to seeing and discussing this proposal, which, knowing of the seriousness and the hardship with which the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice is approaching its issues of responsibility, I believe it will also be holistic and legally documented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u70	It's time for the Justice Minister to take the floor. I'm going to give him some more time, because maybe he should answer some colleagues too. Minister, I'll give you 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u71	I'm getting enough, Mr. President. That's enough. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of suggesting to the Plenary Assembly of the Greek Parliament a bill which I believe helps us take a very important step on the path of reforms and improvements in the area of justice. Not because there is a unified legislation which simplifies a reality which in the past created many problems, but above all because, at the moment, there is no room for us not to follow the one and only route, which means that the reality itself must follow. The path of the changes, the reforms, all these reasons that will help us very soon to shorten the long time available in the administration of justice. In other words, we must face up to the greatest pathogenicity of the area of justice. Before, however, I refer to the individual issues of the bill, I would like to repeat some basic positions, which I believe at least to those in this Chamber, reflect in a unique and given way and have no doubts about them. It is a common assumption that justice is a pillar of democracy. It is also an undeniable necessity for us all to contribute to this Chamber in an effort that will restore the sense of independence of justice to all Greek citizens. Because with this reason, Greek citizens will feel safe. They will feel that they can find their fairness when someone is really wronging them. This is a great obligation for all of us. Everything we have seen or in any case, everything that has been found in the light of news in recent times, only grief can cause to all of us. However, I am one of those who believe that there is, of course, the free expression from the Step of the Greek Parliament, but when one needs to talk about specific legislative interventions and specific bills, which are tabled first in plenary and must be shaped, it must be left to them and not to this well-known political controversy, which, for different reasons, also monopolies the media and of course also the political topicality. I am also one of those who believe that we should finally send a serious, stable teaching message to the entire Greek society. At least the area of justice is left out of these practices, which have in the past affected him and created a great challenge to the average Greek citizen. For this reason and always, before the House of Parliament, I have an open desire to reconcile the bills and to accept many times, in fact, from the suggestions made by the fellow Members of all the parties in the opposition. Because, at least in this basic principle, we must all agree and move together. I should not say that with as much voice as possible - we should leave no room for the work of justice. Justice cannot have either a political or a party sign. Evidently, justice is a refuge, it is, if you like, the space in which each Greek citizen must look forward and must be vigilant, non-discriminatory, unrestricted, and there are no issues which, I repeat, create the great doubt and great question. But there is something that we all have to keep in mind. It is not on the one hand possible to recognise pathogens and, when we go on to take a brave step, to find either reasons or stumbling blocks in order to refuse and to show steam. We are here to dare the changes that we must make in the field of Greek justice, I repeat, in the light of respect for an institution that is a pillar of democracy, given that the result and role of independent justice must be reached by the last Greek citizen and there must be no doubt about it and no question of it. Let's go talk about the bill. I think that the exhaustive debate that took place at the level of the relevant Parliamentary Committee on Public Administration has enabled us at least to highlight all the issues that are currently described in the bill. It is a bill, the main body of which is the Court of Auditors' procedure. We said that we should finally change a bad reality, the multiplicity of the provisions concerning the Court of Auditors to identify them and to address them in this way, and of course, on the other hand, to modernise the institutional framework of the Court of Auditors. I do not know whether there are objections or objections to this, but when the provisions were dispersed, at least in the Code of Civil Procedure, in the Code of Administrative Procedure and in two other bills, should we not at some point identify them and update them? We are actually coming to create a role and status of the Court of Auditors in line with the role and status of the Court of Auditors in most advanced, at least in the field of justice, European countries. Repeat, we don't find anything. We're not bringing anything new. It is a work which has been precedented in the legislative committee for two years now. It is the incorporation of all the comments and their acceptance by the Court of Auditors' plenary, so that today we come to propose this to the plenary of the Greek Parliament. There are neither secret or second thoughts, there are no issues which have a political or possibly ideological reference. There is absolutely none of this. There is, in fact, a pure procedure which must now be the rule of the Court of Auditors. Indeed, I am surprised when all the limits of controls fall, namely, we actually have a much lower amount of control than before, a more criticism of this and more demanding. You must bear in mind, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we do not have inexhaustible human resources. I have said that in my previous speech in committee, there are no inexhaustible human resources. Even the debate, in fact, on the paradoxes that some are rationalizing, increasing, falling, we need to know that it has a specific reference to adapting to the other courts, administrative courts and the Council of State and, on the other hand, to the fact that at the moment we are talking, there are more than thirty thousand outstanding cases. There is no one in this Chamber who would have liked absolutely free access to justice, at least in the sense of the financial obligation. However, we must all understand that these are issues which create a specific rule and at least give the opportunity to the existing reality - I am referring to the staff who may exist and support a process - to give answers and to give solutions. In this way, we will, in fact, speed up the process and, of course, give a more general picture of adequacy, efficiency and transparency in the overall work of the Court of Auditors. The second pillar of the bill concerns the establishment of this Statistical Directorate at the Ministry of Justice. At least here, I want to be honest. I repeat: the political parties may have different views. I respect that. We live in a democratic country, which is capable, of expressing its opinion and, of course, of having the ideological reference in this regard. However, the fact that there is a question of the real need to have the specific information in the field of the Ministry of Justice is a question that I personally get beyond. I cannot understand how there can be a refusal to set up a special directorate, which will collect all the statistics on the work of justice on Greek territory. What about this address and the evidence he collects? Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to draw up a real roadmap in the area of justice, this cannot be done unless we have the real facts, it cannot be done unless we know what is going on from a extreme point of view. I have heard the rapporteur from Mera25 earlier wondering what we will do if we discover units that are not productive. Do you need an answer to this question? I do not say it in a bad mood, but what really does the Greek citizen expect from the functioning of the state through the expressions of its institutions? Does he not expect efficiency, does he expect to do his work and do what is required to do without doubt and without problems, or perhaps the feeling that some are working and some are not working? But the point is not there. The essence of the matter is that, in order to be able to have a picture of reality and to make any steps through changes and reforms that we all consider necessary, but we are afraid to promote them when the time comes, we should have an accurate picture of what is happening to all the judicial formations in the country and that is the main issue. From there, of course, you realise that we must be able in the next period to organise a number of steps which concern specific reforms. I repeat: My intention, at least as long as I can be in the position of the Minister of Justice, is to co-operate with the political parties some important initiatives and some options that concern a more general need at the moment in the field of justice, but from now on, you realise that without the necessary instrument, each of us could simply plan, because one way or another comes to know one another. So this is not even about it. In fact, in order to strengthen my argument, I will tell you that on the third issue, which concerns the administrative establishment of special departments in the first instances and appeals of Athens and Thessaloniki, the answer of "Why are you doing it only in Athens, how will they be able to operate, how will they absorb staff, as the specialization of judges is described", I think it has been given by you earlier, Mr. Xanthopoulou and Mr. Kalamatiane. Do you ignore that with your own law of 4529/2018, did you create a special competition department in Athens? You know that? Why did you do only in Athens? You asked me why we are doing in Athens and Thessaloniki. But it's obvious. Because that is where the large number of cases are congested, and if a number of cases are needed, which concern a distant point, they will be able to be dealt with there. I do not think that should be the subject of discussion. In fact, you have done so as well as you have done so. We say that this is about the decision of the Court of Justice in plenary. It's not mandatory. So it is a brave step, in order to tackle a major problem, which is currently in existence and, of course, is about the economy. You are coming, ladies and gentlemen, many of you and you tell me that we need to find jobs for people and we need to move on with development issues and we must, of course, ensure that there are no problems, that there are no unemployment and that there are no such issues. Really, how do you think this is gonna happen? With magical recipe? If there is no growth in the country through specific investments and through specific activity, how do you think jobs will be created? Magic? On the one hand, you cannot come and say that what you are doing favours major economic interests and that the government does not see ordinary people and finds them jobs and there is a problem with unemployment, etc. and when we must, on the other hand, tackle this issue indirectly, again be the complainants. There is a contradiction that at some point you will have to answer with yourself. This regulation is a very brave arrangement, which shows the government's political will to take the next step. There is always the question here: why these sections? I have explained it many times, ladies and gentlemen, in the previous debates we held in committee. Because this reinforces competition, so that Greece's jurisprudence system will be upgraded by the European Justice Scoreboard, because these are simply issues which contribute to the real development of the country and I am talking about the three specific areas. We are talking about energy issues, about telecommunications, electronic communications, and we are talking about protection of personal data. These are described by many European institutions, by many European organisations. Mr Heta, you have referred several times to the Doing Business. Do you know that's what "Doing Business" says? Of course, it is a tool to show us what steps entrepreneurship must take. It's another tool, it's about recording the country's location and what it's doing. But we need to see it all along. If you see only evil, you need to see the good or the inducement. Here it seems essentially how seriously and responsibly we are standing in the face of a development, a proposal, which concerns the very economic reality of our country. As always in these cases, there is resistance. When one has to take steps forward, there is resistance, which wants to keep a reality established in the present and the past. The question, ladies and gentlemen, is: Do you want to stay here, or do you want to take the step our country needs to take in order to get away from pathogens of the past, to know the real development and to create data that we all wish and want for the whole of Greek society and all Greek citizens? Do you want to go forward, or do you want us to stay back? There are no things that hide or are against citizens, against workers. There are no such issues. We all need to make that clear in our minds. On the contrary, we must actually show the bravery to recognise that opposition practice is good - I understand it, it is within the parliamentary institutional procedure and it is perhaps also a political issue - but without contradictions. If anyone has to find a reason to say that they are not voting for the bill, I would prefer it to be political, to be a clear reason. But by finding a reason that there are, for example, NGOs in this regulation, what are you asking, in other words, for me to understand? Shouldn't we respect the Constitution? There is no such thing, and we must all understand it, and we must show the necessary seriousness. I understand the political opposition, I realise that everyone can be expressed through their ideological position, but when we are looking to find a reason to vote against where there is no or where there is a constitutional contradiction, there is a serious problem and we must all see this. Only in this way will we be able to send a firm message of credibility to the entire Greek society, because you realise that beyond our political confrontation, the final judge is the Greek citizen. The Greek citizens see us, they watch us. Who is close to reality and who loses contact with reality is always, if you like, the point from which we are judged by Greek citizens. Because, as you can see, a democratic state is given the opportunity to do this in a regular manner, it essentially comes from the popular verdict itself. However, since I will be able to speak at the end, Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteurs of the parties, because, furthermore, I repeat, from whatever confrontation we may have or the different views of the way in which the bill has been approached is, I would say, very serious and enable us to express a firm message to the whole of the Greek society, that at least we can keep the measure and the seriousness needed, in order to legislate for the good of the Greek citizen, so that the area of justice can have the authority, have the credibility, have the independence that is imposed, without either second thoughts or second voices. As you know, in recent years, a huge effort has been made to ensure that justice as a place to calm down, that there are no problems that have been in the past and, in essence, every shadow, which has in the past created issues and created questions. In this way, however, I think we must all contribute and we must all strengthen a great effort at least to restore the institutional role and functioning of justice, leaving no room for doubt or much more questionable. I am here to listen to other colleagues and, of course, to conclude. Once again, I would like to apologise on the subject of the amendments by the Ministry of Justice. Although it is well known to colleagues, because there are also joint ministries and some technical issues, it has not been possible so far to testify. The amendment will be tabled, with fewer possible articles, because there were a number of issues that have come to light and that is the only reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u72	In view of the fact that, Minister, we will have the bill and on Monday if I am not mistaken, I think that if you succeed today or at the latest tomorrow morning in reintroducing the amendment, colleagues will have to see it and process it all over the weekend. Mr Villiardos has now asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative, who will not be a dentist, and he will take half the time for his prototype and dentistry. Then two colleagues will speak and we will alternate to the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the people's verdict also depends on the manipulation of the media, where your government shares huge sums, refusing to mention them, despite the fact that it is an obligation of the taxpayers' Greeks. So let us not constantly say 'the popular verdict'. It is manipulated from many different sides. As far as the bill is concerned, it contains many provisions relating to the procedure for holding the elections at the Court of Auditors, with a view to improving, simplifying and speeding up procedures, which we have also supported in our programme, in the run-up to the election, as a Greek solution. Most of this has already been mentioned by our rapporteur in principle, and the next sitting will also be placed in detail on the articles. We will therefore deal mainly with the economic parameters involved in the operation of the Court of Auditors in this bill, noting that its role is very useful to public life, and that it has important consequences for the economy, as it concerns several business initiatives. Generally now, the Court of Auditors, such as the administrative courts and the Court of Auditors, is involved in public administration control. Its powers are set out in Article 98 of the Constitution, and, inter alia, are as follows: control of State, LGD and other legal persons subject to public policy, control of contracts such as supplies, contractors and sales of public undertakings, disputes relating to the award of pensions, report to Parliament on the State's balance sheet and balance sheet and much more. Especially in terms of pre-contractual control, there have been a lot of times over the last few years in connection with the activities of the NSRP and concessions, with the sale of public property, through the HSF, which now falls within the supranational - creditors, of course - often in companies themselves. For example: First, the control of privatisation contracts, such as the concession of the fourteen profitable airports at the ‘FRAPORT’, with the known degrading prices, with a scandalous contract and with the financing of the Greek banks. Secondly, checking the concessions of the Piraeus Port Authority to the Chinese and the EAT, the Port Authority of Thessaloniki, where the latter's employees have objected to the Court of Auditors, as we will submit to the Proceedings. Thirdly, control over the sales of TRAINOSE, compared with only EUR 45 million, as well as with EUR 50 million annually by the State. In other words, we sold TRAINOSE for 45 million and offered a dowry to the Italians 750 million, noting that the contract had been posted to the Court for a year, without the reasons being known, and how they were satisfied at the same time when the European Union was pressing Greece for its closure, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. As we can see from the above, the role of the Court of Auditors is extremely important, especially since it controls the contracts relating to the sale of public property, recalling that foreign officials of HSE have been prosecuted in court, while the lenders have demanded and achieved their discharge, extortioning Greece, and we will also deposit in the Minutes. With regard to the control of the major projects, on behalf of the Court of Auditors, I mention the following examples: first, the southern part of the blind and very low movement of EN65 of the TERNA, our new national contractor, namely, and probably favoured by the government, Lamia - Xeniadas, with the approval given after the agreement of DG COMM of the European Union, as we will table in the Minutes, despite the fact that the very high cost has not changed compared with the time before the crisis, such as the Patras - Tower project, which is to say we pay multiples of what it actually costs. Secondly, an extension of the "Olympia Road" to Patras - Tower, based on the SYRIZA's approval, but now registered on the "Olympia Road", which also participates in the "TERNA", as we will present in the Minutes. We must note here that there is also a European Court of Auditors, which has made reference to the great and growing cost, as well as to the imperfections of the PPP contracts, which have been wasted huge amounts, as we will be tabling again in the Minutes. In particular, on the E65 motorway, built by the ‘TERNA’, the ‘MOREA’, the ‘AkoTORA’ and the ‘Olympia road’, which includes the ‘TERNA’ and the ‘AKOR’, as well as the French ‘VINCI’ and the ‘HOCHTIEF’ of the lenders. We stress that for the new road "TERNA" we pay tolls to Varube, Agios Stefano and Chalkidas, to which we were obliged under the contract, but were not built, with the result that it would pay public service costs to the national contractor, about 11 million annually. But why are there in the contract, forcing the public to pay? What did the Court of Auditors think here and judge? However, it is clear from these examples how important the role of the Court of Auditors is if it was of course working properly for the benefit of the citizens rather than the lenders or the favourers of power. Furthermore, according to Article 324 of today's draft law, the Court of Auditors does not monitor the feasibility, but legality, without any attention being paid to the fact that it is legal, because a similar law or photographic provision was passed by the parliament that is controlled by the government is not necessary, moral or right. Obviously, we consider it unacceptable, while the robbery of the Greeks seems clear with these so-called legal contracts at the Court of Auditors. At the same time, a threshold is set for the level of contracts, which leaves a lot of room for opacity and smuggling of public money. We are talking about the lowest amounts, which can be important either on an individual or on a cumulative basis. On the other hand, it should be investigated whether it is possible to control a larger number of contracts when it is already established that the Court of Auditors is undersettled. It could also be for some other reason that we do not understand why. A cost-benefit assessment should therefore be made so that it can be decided. Article 365 is now excluded from contracts concluded in the context of debt management, as are the advisory costs involved. For those who know this, it concerns investment banks' spending on bond disposal when it sells the public on international markets. These are complex investment products, i.e. derivatives, which have been accused, among other things, of the bankruptcy of Greece, the well-known 'GOLDMAN SACHS' bond, as we will be tabling in the Minutes since 2000. The international advisory market for these operations is oligopolistic, since ten main companies dominate. They are these companies that publish the various bond market studies for which the Minister of Development has recently been proud, saying they recommend the purchase of Greek bonds to their customers. Apparently they do, as long as that's their job, they're paid for it. But precisely for this role in the recommendation of questionable product value in the United States, fines of USD 243 billion have been imposed, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. Fines of $243 billion have been imposed for their recommendations on the purchase of bonds or other products. As far as the exemption from the pre-contractual control of public service contracts for services to maritime transport and the retrospective submission to be checked is concerned, without any penalty in the case of any negative information in the file, it makes the check unreasonable and facilitates the uncontrolled action of operators and their enrichment by involving risks of dealing with political power. In Article 326 now on the pre-contractual control procedure, the 30-day margin is extremely pressing. It would not be enough if the Court of Auditors were fully responsible. How true is the margin in the European Union? Shouldn't the Minister tell us? However, if this is the case, there will be incomplete checks to ensure that the deadline is met. At the same time, the audit is limited only to the information contained in the file, so if it is missing then additional information may be requested. What will happen, however, when the evidence presented is not satisfactory, whether intentionally or not? Usually deliberately leading to the need for further research into and presenting new data, all of this shows that the spirit of the legislator tends to favour pre-formal control when there are many cases of problematic contracts that we have mentioned. Article 327, last paragraph, provides that a contract concluded if no contractual control is carried out is to be invalid. But why should a contract be concluded without control? In addition, there are no consequences for the non-existence of the ex ante ex post verification. With regard to the State's balance sheet and balance sheet in Article 344, we will refer to the next time in greater detail, because there is no time. What we have seen since the 2017 report, which was given to us in 2019, is that the Court of Auditors is not doing anything at all about its work, since according to his report there was no valuation for the transfer of public fixeds to the creditors' overdraft, while there is not even a register of fixeds, as we will be tabling in the Minutes along with some other points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u74	Mr Kotsira Georgios, Member of the New Democracy, will now speak. Then Mr. Hatzigiannakis, Mrs. Raptis, Mr. Castanides and Mr. Janakopoulos will speak. Here, Mr. Kotsira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to congratulate the Minister of Justice' s leadership, because if I am not mistaken it is the fifth bill brought by the Ministry, which is largely a matter of very serious processing in the relevant committees and a majority that supports the initiatives taken. This particular place, which is an area that requires very much respect from all of us, is a very positive dimension for the legislative work, for the House and obviously also for the Greek society that focuses on justice matters with very great respect and is credited to the Ministry of Justice, credited to all the parties I was helping to get a serious treatment. Ladies and gentlemen, the functioning of a modern and effective justice system is a prerequisite for the consolidation of legal certainty, the protection of the public interest, the promotion of the well-being of society and the wider prospects for the country's economy, for the investment environment and for another set of broad areas in which it is involved and affecting them. It is undoubtedly also a key pillar of the democratic functioning of the country, the rule of law and we must all respect its institutional role and with initiatives that modernise it and lead it to a better tomorrow, to help strengthen its credibility in Greek society. This bill is, in my view, a modern bill, because a large part of it relates to the codification of the legislation relating to the Court of Auditors. They now come to a single text, consolidated, amended and supplemented provisions of a procedural nature relating, in particular, to the Court of Auditors. I am pleased that after a long time there has been a process that improves the administrative procedure in a broad sense, it is not purely administrative, because it is self-sufficient to regulate the Court of Auditors, but given its involvement in the Greek public sector, it is usually an important initiative, because the investments that are obviously also going through are a very large part of what we are focusing on and to which we must all help to create jobs, to have an improvement in the economic climate, to have a better prospects for the Greek society, but it also concerns small cases individualized by the ordinary Greek citizen, who often sees that the delay in the administration of justice makes his rights inactive. It's different to make a decision in a few months and it's different to make a decision in a few years. That is why, unfortunately, our country has often happened to be faced with the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights and to be condemned by the European Court of Human Rights for violating Article 6 of the ECHR. This access to effective judicial protection is therefore a foundation and is a key element in the protection and rights of ordinary citizens, who see daily procedures that depend on them, their well-being, their interests, their rights to be delayed. So this service of the principles of fair trial is one of the main pieces that come to be resolved with this bill, because time is entirely linked to quality and vice versa the quality of justice is also linked to time. Because a major issue raised by this bill is the specific parts which exist and are provided for, and, indeed, are provided for by the judicial authorities. It does not come from the Ministry to compel the creation of special sections, but it provides for the possibility of these special sections to exist. And the specialisation provided for in these sections, which is compatible with the development of law, is compatible with the development of European legislation, is compatible with the continuing modernisation of the law science, it is obviously also in the direction of the quality of justice. It is now a key part of the modern model of justice, specialization. I don't understand why some people face this with a fear. Every judge can't know everything. It is reasonable in the interests of normal quality and the strengthening of a specialization culture to predict these parts. Here, then, we are dealing with an issue which reinforces the quality of justice, strengthens its specialisation, protects the Greek citizen from delays - a very basic part - and also, by creating the statistical service department, and the state's information on how this space really takes place, which is not only made up of judges, it is made up of people who have been helping the judge to carry out a very serious task of the Constitution and we obviously need to know how the functioning of the judiciary is done, how each judiciary is to know it separately, how the Ministry of Justice is to be able to legislate targeted, when necessary, in specific activities. These are, therefore, issues which - rightly said by the Minister in his speech - are not that we are discovering pyrovirus. Here are issues which, to his credit, acknowledged that they have also been initiated by legislative committees, which had already been in place, and that shows the continuity of the state on fundamental issues of common sense. To conclude, Mr President, by reaching the end of the year, I would like to mention and stress especially at the current juncture that respect for justice, its protection, its modernisation, respect for the institutions and everything that has to do with a coordinate state, a rule of law and a democratic society are crowns for the smooth functioning of the society, for the smooth functioning and smooth procedure at social level, and we must all protect it as an eye daughter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u76	After Mr Hatzigiannakis, as I said, Mrs Raptis will speak and will be followed by colleagues, Mr Bubas and Mr Loverdos Yiannis. Miltiadis Hatzigiannakis, MP SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary, we will all agree today through the procedure in committee, but also today in plenary, that the area of justice needs to be improved. Unfortunately, what we have been through lately, in recent months, has hit the area of justice with our own responsibilities, the political system and many of the justice officials themselves. This is unpleasant and we must first, with the role you are giving us here, try to improve this situation and legislate, but also with the example that we must give every day from the role that the Greek people have chosen us to give. That is what you, Minister, have done for change in the area of justice, but we are all in agreement. I don't think I need to go far on this. We are discussing a draft law, which was necessary in particular for the code, because it is essentially a code of conduct of the Court of Auditors which was missing. It started about two and a half years ago by the then government and then the administration of the Ministry of Justice, of course in cooperation with the then administration of the Court of Auditors, and you have rightly brought it in and continued with the current administration and we are now coming to vote on it. It was necessary. It had to be done. The Court of Auditors, one of the three highest courts in our country, did not have its own case and was forced and applied proportionately the Code of Civil Procedure or the other legislation. In any case, therefore, it is positive that it is to be voted on and that is why the majority of Parliament's parties first are positive. I am going to stand on two - three points, which have a little trouble with how effective they will be the ones we are going to be voting on these days. One part, Minister, has to do with the change in the substance of the Court of Auditors' minor plenary session, which actually is now becoming fifteen Members and I fear very much that it can create problems of delay. To understand, we tried a case in March, and it has not been decided, as is usually the case with the seven-member composition, which has so far worked very effectively. He didn't cause any problems. I think that knowing the anthropogeography of the Court of Auditors, the 15-member composition will create more delays exactly as opposed to what we all want to achieve, speeding up the procedures, what you yourself said before in your speech as the most important problem of Greek justice. I put it as a thought. I think it was a heavy and weak composition, especially for the pre-contractual control and control of public procurement, and I think the seven-member had worked very well. A second part, which unfortunately did not go in and I would say that you can look at it in a next bill, if you cannot bring it up with an amendment, both in my term of office as mayor and, above all, as a lawyer who has a great deal to deal with the issues of the Court's public procurement, I think that it should finally be solved, and I will propose that on my side, we should be positive in resolving the issue of the distinction between a formal and substantive deficit in the awards. It is a problem that we are constantly dealing with in the case of charges. To give you an example, if an accounting officer forgets to upload a warrant, there will be a possibility in the accounting act that he will be counted against it all as if he had been misled. It is exactly the same way as the Court of Auditors' audits it has done a formal omission of the kind that has misappropriated the money and are missing from the fund. We need to see this because it actually comes after the lawsuits. Usually, the Court of Auditors is reasonably acting out these injustices, but has put some people in too great trouble - they may run for years, bound their property - when there are typical infringements. I wouldn't suggest in the first place. Because it wants a lot of work, and we have done too many legislation at times all governments in some cases to remove such injustices. It is therefore appropriate to provide for this in legislation in order that there is no question of it, that one commissioner should judge it in such a way, that one of the auditors is to judge it differently. It must therefore be made clear that the formal infringement, other than the lack of money from the fund. To be clear, the deficit is quite different. And, of course, this also conflicts with the principle of proportionality - it is clear - in terms of criminal law. Imagine all offences treated as felonies. This is actually the case with the legislation of the Court of Auditors. To close and not get too tired, I will agree and think that in this process of discussing this bill the parties have tried to make a contribution. The amendments tabled are positive, especially the one tabled by the Change Movement. Mr Minister, we had already submitted this to you during the debate of the previous bill. I and then I had taken the floor and said that there is a need for a fair request from both KERANI workers and similar cases, and I think you should see it positively. It doesn't change anything and we need to see it positively. To close without reservation for the internal amendment to Article 4 for building services. Generally speaking, because the explanatory statement is right that since 2010 there have been no building services in all municipalities and we are trying to correct them with the development agencies or with the EBRD. I fear, however, that while development agencies are a tool which will help local government very much, especially in small towns without staff, development agencies, which are legal entities of private law, will be given responsibility for and for legal certainty for the citizen. Because you understand that towns and building services are a special institution, which has to do with fines, infringements, a certificate of infringements, which will be difficult to convince the citizen that private individuals impose these on them. I put it to thought, because I tell you honestly, I consider the agencies to be a development model.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u78	You, as mayor, know it. You know the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u79	There is and there are too many years when the problem is running, but especially for building services and problems. For example, we in Skyros didn't have one. People were forced to come from Kymi. You're right about that. However, I do not know whether development agencies can give or the EBRD can give an answer at least in terms of towns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u80	Mrs Rapti, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this bill finds the House in the middle of our investigation into very serious issues relating to manipulation or non-justice allegedly attempted during the country's governance by the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government. Unfortunately, what they saw the light of publicity brought to light practices that go back to dark times that we want to forget, at least those who are younger Members of Parliament, about the infamous practice of targeting political opponents and their relatives with irresponsible accusations, who ultimately prove innocent by the courts, but when they are too late to safeguard their honor and reputation. The investigation of this House is under way and sooner or later will come to conclusions, so that the Greek people will know who ultimately has the political responsibility for the work of the institutions and who the natural and moral perpetrators of this work are. With regard to the practice, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I would like to mention briefly the following: The Government representative Mr Petsas has come to Parliament, he has responded to us and has responded to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, stressing that when the campaign is completed and money is paid, the lists will be given to publicity, and indeed he stressed that it is a matter of days when the list is published and that it is a disastrous mistake to identify advertising with money. That is why let us not discuss the very same questions that have been answered. A little patience. In terms of legislation, we are indeed discussing today a bill, which concerns the proper organisation of the administration of justice and the speeding up of the process of judiciary in our country, issues on which we were committed and in the run-up to elections. It is the first bill, as has been said, which has passed through the new CENE, that is to say, it is presented before us, having complied with all the conditions of good legislation, the conditions for which we have spoken and, of course, it has been approved by the Court of Auditors and by the Council of State. As far as the Court of Auditors and those who are legal persons are concerned, we know that those procedural arrangements which either were part of the law were either applied by analogy by the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Administrative Procedure, and which form a single procedural text for the Court of Auditors, a modern legislation, which clearly describes its functioning and creates a real sense of security, through transparency of all procedures, to Greek citizens. In addition, this draft law speeds up the administration of justice, for which we have all discussed many years and our lawyers, as the institution of the rapporteur of the case is introduced, and those who have tried in administrative courts are aware of the importance of this institution, because this judge, the rapporteur, has made sure that he can bring the case up to trial, that is to say, that the case file is complete, as the judges are charged with cases, since they have been dealt with at the hearing first. This, of course, means that these cases, and especially those in need of special investigation, are delayed in diagnosing corruption, that the well-known judicial decisions, which, of course, order the completion of the facts, and that the procedure should be extrapolated by unjustified judges, secretaries and parties, not only with delays, but also with excessive costs. That is why the system of proof is also adopted, the system in which the parties are obliged to submit all their information in advance. Of course, the role - the key role of the President of the department - is defined in order to ensure the quickest trial with the legal tools he has and these legal tools we have discussed them here and during the committees. It is the categorisation by the subject category of cases, those decisions made, in accordance with the established case-law of the plenary which has resolved this issue. It is also the identification of clearly unacceptable and unfounded requests for judicial protection, but also the search for those critical elements for the completion of the dossier, work which will now be carried out by the rapporteur judge and then, of course, the case will no longer have to be dealt with in the ordinary procedure, but they will now be able to join the rapid trial, which we all know has been in force since 2012, i.e. they will all be brought together into a consultancy procedure. So, as you can see, the legislative measures considerably accelerate this case-law for the benefit of all Greek citizens. In relation to the organisational reform of the court, provisions are laid down in this bill for the reorganisation of the court and its seven chambers are fully reorganised to have about the same amount of cases and not to have the burden on others, so that we can also have the result of more rapid decision-making by all the judges. Now in relation to the new powers which come from the Court of Auditors, these are entrusted to it and are to identify those management pathogens and to analyse their causes, to assess the reliability of the internal control systems of the public administration, i.e. the Court of Auditors is carrying out this audit of the effectiveness of these systems, and also to carry out audits, following a Parliament decision. In particular, and this is important, it is for the first time in the Greek legal system that targeted checks are carried out at the request of our Parliament or our committee and provided that a broad political consensus has been reached, namely the two-thirds majority of its members. And because there have been many points of view on this issue, I would like to stress that there is no issue of constitutionality or of fear of work being done by the governments concerned, as these checks will result from the majority of the committee concerned. It is also a presumption that the Court of Auditors will be able to refuse the request by a specifically reasoned decision of the full Court, precisely so that the court cannot commit itself to satisfying the request if Article 26 of the Constitution were to be infringed on the principle of separation of functions. Now in relation to the very important, in my view, creation of the Statistical Directorate at the Ministry of Justice, JustStat, this section in this bill on this establishment of an autonomous service is very important for the processing of all the statistics on justice. This regulation enables the administration of justice to take decisions, decisions on the organisation and functioning of courts on the basis of specific objective data, which will reflect the real situation that we have all experienced, the real situation in which they exist. It is a question of wondering that I have heard colleagues from the Vice-President not wanting to have such a system with statistics on justice and they will allow us to know directly what cases are pending before the courts so that we can make those decisions on change and reform, always based on real facts. To hear the Minister mention that the pending cases today are more than thirty thousand in the number before the courts, we all understand that it is necessary to find the sufferings of these cases and of course to resolve them. In relation to the possibility of linking the special sections which are very important and which will be created in the districts of the First Chambers and Appeals of Athens and Thessaloniki, I would like to say that these specific departments, which will be created to deal with cases relating to electronic communications, energy and personal data, will be sections that will be managed by specialised judges so that these particular differences, which we have talked about many times and which are crucial to the economic development of the country, are resolved more quickly and more effectively. There is, of course, a corresponding provision for administrative courts, as we all know from statistical data that large businesses will invest in our country, not only in our own, but in other countries, the first thing they ask is the situation of justice in that country. And of course, if any legal issue is found, they are asking whether it will be resolved quickly or whether there will be any involvement in a tangle of procedures, so that any potential investment can never be completed, due to delays in the junctures of the administration of justice. We all know that, we've dealt with it as lawyers in the courts. Always people who are interested in investing are interested in the rapid administration of justice. So we need to understand how important the functioning of justice is and how important it is to the real economy of our country. That is why it must move rapidly and not ultimately be any obstacle to someone who will legally bring money, but also jobs in this place. It is obvious that these forecasts do not only concern large enterprises. They are almost all about businesses, as we all know that speeding up the administration of justice is understood to serve small businesses, which very often do not resort to justice, because they are time-consuming and costly. The result is that economic growth is not favoured, and many jobs are lost for citizens. Finally, this bill introduces digital reforms, according to the permanent position of the government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis for the digital transformation of the state. Thus, the court and the parties are given the opportunity to make use of electronic means to carry out the witnesses themselves and the experts and the parties will be examined using new technologies. The paradoxes and judicial marks will now be electronically paid. Also, particularly important for those who exercise the law, is the possibility of legal aid or means by using computer technologies. Thus, the jump of digital transformation currently taking place in the area of justice will contribute to the functional upgrading of the system as a whole and significantly improve the daily lives of citizens and the performance of justice functions. At this point, I would also like to congratulate the Ministry's leadership in adopting the proposal put forward at the first meeting by our rapporteur to introduce a provision relating to Article 295, so that judicial conferences may be held using a technical instrument. Ladies and gentlemen, the effort made by the government is an important attempt to modernise the way in which justice operates, which is undoubtedly necessary in a modern state. On the occasion of and under the control of Parliament for the existence of this outlawing or non-circumvention and of the practice of manipulation in the field of justice, any such legislative effort that is moving towards speed and transparency of its operation is in any case more necessary than ever before. That is why I invite you all to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Boumbas has the floor and then Mr. Yannis Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u83	Mr. President, when am I supposed to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u84	You guys are right after that. It's just that Mr. Loverdos had a mutual transfer with Mr. Cappato, and that's why you saw him after you. But Mr. Cappatos caught up with you and went to Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u85	You're good at alchemy, that's why!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u86	Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u87	Mr. President, me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u88	You, Mr. Janakopoulos, will speak after Mr. Castanides. We do not go in the parliamentary order - because you do not want the parliamentary representatives - but the statements. You raised your hand immediately after Mr. Castanides and I have noted it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u89	No problem, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u90	I once made a proposal to go in the parliamentary order. But at the Conference of Presidents, Mr Janakopoulou, there was a reasonable argument that it could not be that way at times, because it could have a job. So let's make a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u91	No problem, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u92	Here, Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the administration of justice. Once an American journalist had said that justice is a fair distribution of injustice. Or if we will see it philosophically and historically, Plato had said "Maybe unrighteous or unfair." Thucydides had said “... unjust persons are probably angry or raped.” It's much better to be wronged than to be unfair. And people today, societies, feel angry when they are wronged than when they are raped. We have to let Themida do her job. And I'm saying this because if you ask the legal world - most of you are top lawyers with legal knowledge - until someone takes this year, it makes the necessary steps. From there on, there is a "cleaning". The control, which is an ancient Greek word, against the composition of the Court of Auditors scares us. However, if we go into the articles, Mr Minister, we will see that Parliament is not able to introduce any control limit on the part of Parliament, on a proposal from the Court of Auditors. If there's to be some kind of control, it's to be done. It must not be done only by the blessing of the political majority. If a check is required, it shall be done at any time and at any time. This is, I think, Article 98, which we are debating during a legislative procedure, on how to monitor the spread of public money. It is a question of people gaining confidence. I am very afraid, however, that the social strata for the Court of Auditors, which we are talking about today, do not know in depth how it works. They just think it's an audit body, but they don't know exactly what the procedures are. There are some articles in which we as Greek Solution react. If we go from 317 to 323, did you say before to non-governmental organisations that we would go against the Constitution? But this is a discrepancy, I'm so sorry. The NGO loser will be paid by the taxpayer Greek citizen? Where did that sound? There is a distinction between legal persons, we say, apart from non-governmental organisations. That's what people need to know. Why, then, is this distinction being made? If we go to special courts, why just for telecommunications, for energy? Do you know today that there is a robbery policy in terms of telecommunications in Greece, but also in terms of the energy you privatized? The collecting companies are constantly taking up - as coyotes - to allow me the word - daily citizens to regulate PPC just EUR 100. And I said it next time, where is social sensitivity with a nucleus of man? If someone has a condition, has diabetes, has a blood pressure, has a heart, and is bothering him as a collector for 100 euros, as a Greek taxpayer, if this man is in hospital, where is the state as a supporter to protect him? I do not see in it a relationship that our Court of Auditors can have if we want to upgrade it to the Code of Civil Procedure, Administrative Procedure - because there are specific manuals as aids to how the Court of Auditors will operate - with the relevant Court of Auditors in Europe. I read a few days ago that the Court of Auditors of the European Union, which is an institutionalised body, will check where the money was given and where the money went ahead of the COVID -19, in view of the coronary. It's a check, see if they went to public health. Because if you want to consider what the Court of Auditors should check, there is a decision - and the Greek people must know - in 1986 to set up and operate the European Commission with three very important articles. It's Articles 114, 158 and 163. They speak of brave financial instruments, on a proposal from the Court of Auditors, if Europe is faced with a global threat. Look at it, it's talking about public health, about the combination of a legislative framework and a social policy. So don't cut the government how Europe will be pressed and what money it will be given. There is a legislative framework here. Now, if Germany blurs the waters with something Euro Working Group and anything else after 1986, let's see it. That is why we are talking today about a Reconstruction Fund, a Strategic Investment Policy Fund, a Rescue Fund, because the European Union had anticipated this issue with the global pandemic since 1986. Listen: Control must not scare us. There's a periodic check, regular check. It is important to check that this is important. When it comes to dismantling public money, should justice be flexible, but is one talking about the composition of the Court of Auditors? President, eight Vice-Presidents, thirty Counsellors, forty-five other members, Commissioner General, Commissioner and he goes on to say. It's good, they must have specialized knowledge. The point is, is it functional or is it stiff? Let me give you an example. You're talking about local authorities. The Commissioner there should check accounting, computer, input - outputs, accountability of the municipalities, contracts signed, suppliers to whom money has been given. And we have reached a point - because those who went through self-government know it - to keep the Commissioner's commissioner in his hands! I will say that I am plagiarising - to expect suppliers on the market to check invoices for events to be paid and one and only Commissioners as 'Loudovik' keeps the papers in his hands. Can this be the way to give social benefits to people who have to work? Since we have said this in our country as Greek Solution and Kyriakos Velopoulos - we do not have the devil's 'counselor' in Themida - who is the devil's advocate? I will say this once again - the Constitutional Court, which must protect social rights, the Court of Auditors must at last protect the property of the Greek people. For the special courts that I have told you, if you want to make a special court for telecommunications and energy, do so in other courts politically, domestic violence. I'm closing, Mr. President. I would remind you that you are not helping legal science on the subject of the Ombudsman, Mr Minister. You drive lawyers to leave abroad. The Ombudsman cannot be a non-legislator - I was saying next time - and the Treaty of Istanbul, which was signed on a matter of family violence, is being violated. You go, we've told you as Greek Solution, according to the Spanish Standard. Why would the Greek pay there for a compromise? It needs attention from the Court of Auditors. After all, it was established in 1933 on Regent Otto and under Prime Minister Charilaos Trikoupis to control public money.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u94	Shut up, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u95	In conclusion, I call on the Government to take a stand on the Himaras issue, what is happening today in the Albanian Riviera, where the land from the Northcontinents and the olive trees are being imprisoned. Tell us the Department of Foreign Affairs to do autopsy, what's going on in Himara. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u96	Until the Step is fixed, Mr. Loverdos will be ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u97	Good evening. When I get up to this Step here, I feel a great awe when I think of who has gone through this Step. I don't know if you all feel that awe. Many have not read history and have perhaps not lived through the recent political history of the country. I have the happiness and I have read a lot of history and know that here Eleftherios Venizelos was once standing, and many others, shocking figures of our history, but since 1974 I have experienced this reality by following the political life of the place by Constantine Karamanlis, Andreas Papandreou, Elios, Konstantinos Mitsotakis, Leonidas Kourkos and so many other personalities I do not have time to list. Why am I saying that? Because in this difficult time our country is going through us MPs, who of course are not at the level of these personalities I have told you, but we have an obligation, since we are elected by the Greek people, to stand up to the circumstances. The period after 1974 is a shocking period. It is the only period - many may not have realised it - that is forty-six years in which we have a smooth rotation of parties in power. This has never happened before in Greek history until now. Until then a party came to power, a party then became a constitutional diversion. However, we have flirted with the constitutional diversion and after 1974. I remember that when Andreas Papandreou and PASOK were to come to power in 1981, he would fight against the corruption and arrogance of public life when accusing the parastate of the right, especially in the pre-declaratory period. Social democracy or the 'third-way socialism' would come then - as was said by the late Andreas Papandreou - and the phenomena of arrogance and corruption would disappear. As you know, this didn't happen. PASOK, of course, became a established political power, was a powerful power party for about thirty years. Proof that, and now - I do not know if you are aware of it - the three largest parties in this House also have a Secretary of the PASOK Central Committee in their ranks today. However, he had cases of corruption and arrogantness very large and intense. In 2015, SYRIZA would come to fight the corruption of PASOK and bring its moral advantage. As we live and experience it very strongly lately, this has not happened either. SYRIZA not only had no moral advantage, but once he acquired power, he acted like the same corruption and the same arrogantness that blamed the previous ones. Do you know why this is happening? Because human nature itself is pushing towards corruption and arrogance, and the only way to protect it is to limit power and strengthen institutions. As Lord Ashton said, power is corrupting and absolute power is completely corrupting. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] I say this because I heard my dear Mr. Nikos Karathanasopoulos from the JRC yesterday saying capitalism creates these phenomena. I would like to remind my dear Mr. Karathanasopoulos that perhaps one of the most inhuman, corrupt and cruel regimes that human nature has ever created was the Soviet Union of Stalin, but unfortunately...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u98	Only you'd be aromatic soap now if it weren't for them!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u99	Yes, yes, that's right, dear Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u100	Instead of thanking them for being killed to live free today...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u101	Look, I can't thank a regime that killed sixty million people who slaughtered an entire people. I can't. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u102	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u103	In any case, that is exactly what creates corruption and arrogance, power. The more absolute it can be, the greater it will be. So here we are all called upon to strengthen the institutions, both the ministers, the government and the Members of Parliament. The first and greatest institution, which is the heart, the essence of the parliamentary system and the present democracy, is the distinction between the powers that Montesquié said. Without distinction of powers, we will reach totalitarian situations. And I know that there are politicians who move towards intervention in justice. It has been done not only by the previous government, but also by other governments. The truth is that. Of course, in the previous government, we heard terrible things, such as secret visits by Ministers of Justice at the prosecutor’s office in the Ice Bay. I know there are judges who act like politicians and politicians as judges. That's not our role. Each one has his own role. If we do not strengthen the distinction of powers, this country will not proceed as it should, for the benefit of Greek citizens and for the benefit of the parliamentary democracy which we all serve. And I say it to everyone, even to the government. The ministers, when they come here, are not God's mercy ministers. They're appointed by the Prime Minister and they're coming here to give a speech to the National Representation. They do not come with arrogantness or should not come with arrogantness. The same applies to Members. Members themselves must be involved in parliamentary procedures. It's not a House image that's very often. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We must also speak with the reason why we have and give us the Constitution, representing the citizens, because we must never forget that politicians exist to serve the country and society. We do not exist to serve party or other interests, just as the parliamentary group of the ruling party does not exist to lick the government, but there is to participate and control the government effectively in the implementation of the programme for which it has been elected. Opposition does not exist to undermine only the ruling party, as it has done so far. These are simple truths, self-evident truths that, unfortunately, in our country have not yet become self-evident, at least. That is why we must also fight in this direction, and it is essential to free justice so that it is distinguished from the political authority in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Kastanides, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of today's debate colleagues, even from different political places, have been kind enough to say kind words about my face. I feel like I have to thank them for their generosity. We are talking today about a bill, which has a broad convergence of views, with few exceptions. This bill was drawn up in part by a previous legislative committee during the term of office of the previous government, as several other provisions relating to the Code of Law mainly the Court of Auditors had very serious decisions and suggestions from the Court of Auditors. And when the Supreme Court has put forward thoughts, arrangements for its case or its responsibilities, then we must be extremely careful and accept proposals which, ultimately, because of the experience of the highest judicial officers, can help to give justice. Part of the bill relates to the concentration in a single law of the Court of Auditors' procedure. We are in agreement and we are voting in favour. We also consider that there are interesting and useful provisions concerning the Court of Auditors' Code of Law and we are also positive. Of course we are positive on issues relating to pre-contractual legality in public procurement. In this chapter, I will be back in a moment. There are reservations about some other provisions which do not concern the Court of Auditors, and that is where I think we can try to achieve convergence so that the provisions that we are voting on are mutually acceptable. Minister, watch out for something. You will find us as a Change Movement completely opposite if you attempt, in accordance with the desire of the Ministry of Development and Competitiveness, to increase the limit of the contracts co-financed from EUR 5 million to EUR 10 million and thus to have a reduction in the controlled matter. I hear arguments that the Court of Auditors and the pre-contractual legality check are being delayed at times when we need to speed up the development process. I would ask you to inform the Competitiveness Minister that the Court of Auditors, in particular, does not delay pre-contractual control. It is always within these deadlines. This is due to two reasons. Approximately 20% of the Court's staff are employed by pre-contractual audits. The remaining 80% is employed with the other responsibilities of the Court of Auditors and, above all, with repressive control. The second reason why the Court of Auditors is not delayed is that decisions by the competent bodies can directly strengthen the compositions of the scales responsible for pre-contractual control. Therefore, there is no way for us to be late, at least with regard to the pre-contractual audit of the legality of public contracts on the part of the Court of Auditors. So let fears of part of the Government be reassured that this can happen and be analogous to the progress of development processes. I would point out this because I have noticed that several New Democracy colleagues today came with the line 'increase from EUR 5 to EUR 10 million. The second thing I would like to point out to you, before entering into public procurement, is this: I think it is right that the Greek Parliament should be able to ask the Court of Auditors for a small number of serious cases to be checked. I must, however, tell you that the most useful thing is to ensure that the Greek Parliament's proposal to the Court of Auditors is based on an enlarged majority decision and not on a government majority, because then we will have another kind of dispute. If the majority is strengthened, it means that there is a more general interest in the political world in critical cases to be controlled. Do not answer the question when we intervene in the interna corporis of the House, because there is the possibility, first of all, of a political statement that it is the majority's desire to ensure that Parliament's Rules of Procedure are amended and, secondly, that we also have laws regulating increased majority voting when, for example, the Conference of Presidents decides. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to express a few thoughts and suggestions on the issue of the award of public contracts for works, supplies and services. It is a crucial issue and it offers us the opportunity that the entire chapter of the draft legislation is precisely about the pre-contractual audit of the legality of public contracts. The use of the state and power with established logic and the meeting of business interests and politics were all along the way of the modern Greek public life two negative phenomena which adversely affected public life. Both could constitute a risk for the smooth functioning of democratic institutions, for the legitimacy, transparency and autonomy of policy. Usually, the constitutive logic of using power mechanisms tended to serve strong economic centres and business interests in exchange for the strengthening of willing political parties and the strengthening of willing political parties. Look at the current atmosphere these days, on the basis of the work of the Preliminary Examination Committee, the extraordinary regime of direct awards imposed by legislative acts by the Government and the non-transparent management of public funds, mainly to the media. A vigilant atmosphere is once again being created which breaks down the links of trust between citizens and politics and moves away from their citizens' politics. Today and all these days together we should all rise above the party dispute and instead appear as institutional guarantors of the smooth functioning of the political system and democratic institutions. We're not doing this. And I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that they have a responsibility for both major parties, as they change into the defendant's position not on the basis of stable principles, but according to their position as Opposition or government. And to be clear, I will give two examples of characteristics. New Democracy is revolutionised when SYRIZA Minister is recording a banker, but welcomes when you privately record former Minister of SYRIZA. SYRIZA revolts when the Minister of Competitiveness judges extremely negative and attacks this particular judiciary, but silenced when the Minister targeted him with specific and named judges. That's hypocrisy! And it is a huge responsibility if we have not understood that our role is the role of institutional guarantors for the credibility of the political system and democracy and not those funny ones. What is the critical place, the intersection in which business routes with politicians and political parties meet? Mostly public contracts. That is where illegality, the downturn in legality, transparency and the exchange of interests are produced. I am therefore taking the opportunity to give some thought to public procurement, which I described as the crucial and most dangerous point in the meeting of business centres with politics. After a period of inferiority, public procurement control institutions were gradually introduced. But we went to the other end. An excessive bureaucratic burden has been created and too many gaps have been left. The Court of Auditors proceeds with the pre-contractual audit of the legality of public contracts by EUR 300,000 and by way of Commissioners, from a million euros to the level of the Court of Auditors. It is the verification of the official legality of the procedures to be followed before the signature of the contract between the contracting authority and the contraaor. In 2011, the Single Independent Authority for Public Contracts was established, mainly of a regulatory nature. It creates proposals for standard tender procedures prior to the award of a public contract and has the power of checks irrespective of the amount, but - take care - of sample checks only. Law 4412 also established the principle of review of references for preliminary rulings which determines the disputes that have arisen between contractors and contracting authorities during the tendering procedure. This is a precondition for the later use of legal aid in regular justice. Note what the gap is: given that they are sample checks by the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority, all contracts under EUR 300,000 remain uncontrolled, all contracts resulting from co-financing with the European Union under EUR 5 million remain uncontrolled. So there is a huge gap, which we need to cover. I am presenting you with the proposal - and I am closing - to indicate what is an institutional guarantee, that is, the role of the Greek Parliament in lifting over party disputes and ensuring the smooth functioning of the institutions and the credibility of the political system. First of all, I would suggest that the two independent authorities, namely the Proceedings Review Authority and the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority, in one, strong, with two sections, a section with powers to prejudicial proceedings and a section with regulatory powers, but - secondly - the second part which also has regulatory powers, for contracts with less than EUR 300,000, will not be a sample but a compulsory section, as will the contracts with less than EUR 5,000, when it comes to co-financed programmes. Mandatory. Of course, the new single independent authority in the Court's margin of judgement will have the possibility of sample checks, i.e. in large contracts, before the Court's formal final audit. They claim that, when we lay down transparency rules, progress on projects, supplies and service contracts may be delayed. There's no bigger mistake than that. It has been historically proven that the more you ensure in public procurement the rules on transparency, the faster the result, the more the decision. I will only give you one example. In 1996-1997, when I had the honour of leading the Ministry of Transport and Communications at that time, the need for renewal of the Athens urban transport fleet arose. As I know very well what the conflict between business interests means, I decided - that was before I resigned from the Ministry of Transport - to set up a cross-party committee. All parties accepted and a cross-party committee was set up, which controlled closely, step by step - the competitive process. Bus commission ended in six months. The commission, not the contract. And neither of the political parties have said nor one of the contractors concerned any word or word at all. I would ask you to do the same with regard to direct awards. We need to have a conversation. Minister, you may have done so, but if you look at the ratification by the House of Acts of Legislative Action what the Public Procurement Authority observes, it would be really embarrassing. It says very serious things to the detriment of the exceptional regime of direct awards by the Public Procurement Authority. I would also ask that we all agree on what we agreed in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency this morning. I have requested that the relevant Minister be heard, if necessary the independent authority relating to broadcasting, as well as the representatives of the newspaper owners of the daily press, as well as journalists and their associations, so that we can go to an agreement on how the government in question has to deal with the use of transparency rules for the reinforcement of the press. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the parties have agreed to this proposal. I hope that we will do so very soon. Thank you very much for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u106	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. I shall now give Mr Jianakopoulos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Ypsilantis will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Madam President. After the very interesting previous position, which Mr Kastanidis will allow me at some point during my speech to comment on one or two points, I must say that I feel the obligation, given the political climate that has been established in recent days and by taking advantage of the presence here and the Minister of Justice, before entering into the substance of the draft law we are debating today on the codification of the Court of Auditors' legislation, to make a more comprehensive position - of course - on what is said in the field of justice and political contact points. Because, Minister, I hear colleagues today - you did not follow this path of the New Democracy, and I am pleased to see that very much appreciate it - and here in this House today, but also in daily places and interventions in the media with courage, one would say, with a great deal of courage to talk about para-state, when we have been living in a situation that is turning us into a situation which, in the darkest days of post-population, would say. And I am speaking for the period 1990-1993, Mr Minister, during the period of Mauritius, Gryllakis and other partners, the true para-staters, who would also be led to a special court if the then President of PASOK, the late Andreas Papandreou, had not made a different political choice. And I have the feeling and I make the historical assessment that the course of the political things would be very different if they hadn't moved that way. One would therefore expect a side with this deserving political story to be a little more careful when it comes to para-state. Minister, I was impressed by your reference - and I welcome it - to the need to protect all of us from the independence of justice. However, I wonder what your position is as a Minister of Justice following the statements made by Mr Georgiadis, who, with his well-known impartiality, threatened an active judicial officer with imprisonment. Do you not think that as the Minister of Justice of the Government of New Democracy you should take a political position in relation to this statement? At least get a distance from this statement. Mr Kastanides will allow me to tell him, with all due respect, both for his political course and for his legal training and for his general political thinking and morality, that I do not agree with the logic of political setback. It's not the same thing that the complaint, if you want, delays in justice with a threat, with the direct threat to a judicial officer that he'll be sent to prison. I understand that someone could want to get away from both practices. But it's not the same thing. I want to come back. How does the Minister of Justice and the Deputy Minister of Justice - who is not currently in the Chamber - feels like a former judiciary that the entire government and the MPs of the Couple at this stage is forming a political diversion strategy, rescinding practices condemned to the consciousness of Greek society and Greek citizens. Why am I talking about distraction? For it is obvious, Minister, that the New Democracy is at the moment when we are talking about deadlocks to which it itself has contributed to giggling. Yesterday we heard Mr Stavoura following Mr Georgiadis' celebrations on the so-called achievement of the government, namely that he has managed to maintain the recession in the first quarter of 2020 at limited levels in any case. Of course he forgot to tell us that Greece has been in recession since the fourth quarter of 2019. But what is the deadlock? That at the moment we are talking about a recession in the second quarter of 2020 of 16%, and that sets a course of economic collapse and political liquidation. What's the other big political deadlock? The pressure that the government spokesman each day accepts for his choice to fund the media with 20 million without any guarantee of transparency. Here I will reply directly to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, who has reiterated the government's argument that all the list will be published when the payments are completed. A prerequisite for even the slightest disbursement of public money is the posting of "GENERAL" and, at the moment, payments have already been made, coming from the State budget, for the first time since the "GENERAL" has been established as a means of guaranteeing transparency for public money, for the first time, the payments in question have not been posted and one wonders why. What is the reason for this political choice to circumvent a framework which is now a conquest for Greek democracy and executive power and for public administration? Obviously why you are hiding something, obviously why you cannot give answers to the funding criteria. I am not going to go into distraction on other issues. But something else about the position of the parliamentary representative of the New Democracy. He said: How is it possible for SYRIZA to get involved in money laundering entrepreneurs or corporations with legal advertising? It seems to me that you are forgetting the well-established history of CEDEFOP when advertising became the dirty money laundering tool when it became the money-laundering tool of entrepreneurs and companies with cases that are currently working on Greek justice. Minister, I could multiply that list, but I do not have the time. I would ask you, for example, how you feel as a Minister of Justice that the pre-review committee has attempted, attempted to circumvent principles of procedural and substantive criminal law, and fortunately this attempt has been prevented in one case by the Marios Ice itself, and in the second case, the Scientific Council of Parliament itself and whether these are matters which are in line with or in line with the government's policy of respect for the institutions, the principles of the rule of law and the independence of justice. Minister, in order to go through the bill in my short time, we have to agree this: none of the strategic issues, problems, dilemmas facing Greek justice can be solved unless we share the same framework of principles and respect for the rule of law. It cannot be resolved and unless a climate of elementary division is restored within justice. Here you will allow me, with all due respect, to disagree with your finding that, in the days of the New Democracy, the Greek justice has returned to a normality, because everything I have described above, but much more, such as the extreme conflict that has seen the light of publicity within the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, do not support the statement you have made in your speech. In my opinion, it is also necessary for your intervention to return this climate of normality, which will allow me to make the political assessment that it was seized after - at the very least, one would say - in 2012 with specific practices, with specific political interventions, with unifications of well-known celebrity circuits that acted in balance until that time, which were unified into a giant and monstrous mechanism of political exploitation of the functioning of justice. As far as the bill is concerned, taking advantage of one of the time of my secondary speech - I will not go into secondary matters - I will say that it is obviously part of a broader reform framework that the previous government has mobilised, the reform framework which included the Code of Civil Procedure, the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, that is to say, comprehensive legislation which in essence strengthened the ability of justice to move much more quickly, but also with greater legal certainty, and today this codification that we have in the legislation on the Court of Auditors, prepared by the Legal Service in the years of previous governance, comes and is submitted to Parliament. As you can see, in this general context we can only agree, because this is a reform that we have moved forward. But you will allow me two - three comments that I would expect you to take into account. First of all, as far as the Court of Auditors and pre-contractual audits are concerned, I would like to agree with Mr Kastanidis, but also with the SYRIZA rapporteur, who raised the risk of accepting the pressures exerted by New Democracy and especially by the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Georgiadis, to increase the threshold for compulsory pre-contractual control from five to ten million. It is extremely problematic, we do not think it is right, and we therefore call on you not to make such a change and in any case to clarify what the government's official position is in this regard. As far as the second section of the bill is concerned, I will make some comments that matter. We had expressed our reservations regarding the possibility of requesting additional intervention from the Court of Auditors. Some issues of constitutionality that were raised I think have been cleared up, so we are geared to supporting this provision. I would, however, like to make a reservation in relation to the 343 concerning Parliament's ability to ask the Court of Auditors for the prioritisation of audits carried out in the context of the Court of Auditors' competence or to request that a case be checked which has not been included in the pre-emption of the Court of Auditors. My opinion is - and we have made it clear a moment ago, Minister - that the verb is to be 'proposal'. And it is absolutely right, because otherwise we would have a problem with regard to respect for the principle of separation of powers. One is that. Secondly, I would like to agree with Mr Kastanidis once again that it may be possible to find the legal way of doing so, to provide for an increased majority in this House, so that there is no shadow that these checks can be exploited by a majority in Parliament for reasons which they do not have to do with respect to the principles of transparency, but with other types and other purposes. For the autonomous departments in the first instance, I think that SYRIZA's positions and our rapporteur Theophilos Kanthopoulou, who also expressed the constitutional and real objections, have become very clear, because this regulation makes the assessment that it will create a huge accumulation of cases. While your argument does not convince us, Minister, that the reason why you chose in these separate sections to integrate transport, telecommunications and personal data comes from the European Union. I think that we still need a much greater debate on exactly what activities will be involved in the physical competence of these sections, in that we still have extremely large questions and reservations about the effectiveness of this measure. As far as the Statistical Office is concerned, you have also heard our reservations. Our proposal was specific after the debate, which took place in the committees. We agree on a unification proposal - if you like - of addresses...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u108	That's what's going on. I answered Mr. Castanides as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u109	Good. Wonderful. Therefore, these are quite important clarifications so that we too can define our final position with regard to these articles. I would like to conclude by asking you to give us some clarification on that article, which in turn causes questions and extends the term of office of the Presidents, the military judges for one year. Why has an overall law on military justice not been tabled during this period? Why is this choice, which also raises constitutional and political questions? I would like to see a clarification in this regard. Thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Ypsilantis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it is true that I would like to continue at the same pace as Mr Kastanidis' excellent speech on the experiences and concerns he has put forward here and not, of course, on the reaction of Mr Janakopoulos to his introductory speech, which seems to be disturbed by what comes to publicity. He seems troubled himself and his party, SYRIZA, by the reaction of the Greek society that has already been monitoring all these things. I do not want to go on with it at all, nor do I want to comment on it. On the contrary, what I would like to start my speech today is the fact that our country, for example, has, with regard to pandemic, been an example worldwide. It is also true that the phenomena of post-CIVID era, after Lockdown - I would say - are being treated in many respects with enough success, with reactions of such a kind that can be remedied, wherever and whenever necessary, by the Greek Government. However, the fact of the young girl in Rhodes that shows that the recession and poverty following this great crisis will hit the doors of many Greek homes, calls on us all - and above all the political class - to be more sensitive and to be vigilant in these phenomena, in order to deal with them. That is to say, at local, national and Community level, the sensitivity to these people, who are affected by this great crisis, which has brought the economic situation after health. In fact, I am ready - along with all my colleagues in the Greek Parliament - to monitor and assist in this. In fact, I am surprised, Minister, that Mr Janakopoulos does not see any progress in justice. On the contrary, here, the Greek Parliament is witnessing the fact that we are increasingly seeing bills, which are intended to deal with chronic diseases that have injured - and are injured - the functioning of justice, to come, to be introduced, to vote and to deal with situations, particularly those relating to delays in the administration of justice. So the good news is that you have brought quite a few bills. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis does not remain unaware of this fact either. It is also proof of this bill in plenary today, which unifys, modernises and significantly improves - I would say - the procedural arrangements of the Court of Auditors. The introduction of a single procedural text was necessary, as the procedural arrangements in question have so far been diffuse and fragmented with provisions in legislation which, in most cases, serve different needs. The increased degree of procedural complexity, to date, puts fundamental obstacles to the exercise of the fundamental rights of each person for access to effective judicial protection, while - I would say - is at the same time acting as a stimulus for the implementation of investment plans, with what this implies for the development of our country. In this context, therefore, the legislation simplifys the procedures before the Court of Auditors and abolishes earlier provisions which create difficulties for those who are not familiar, while adopting regulations that are common to other procedures. All these interventions which have been judged - and are deemed to be intentional and adopted, particularly in view of the fact that a large number of cases have been raised before the Court of Auditors. And that is not questioned by anyone. It was a question of finding - and it was proposed - a balanced balance between the administration of justice in reasonable time and the other aspects of the right to a fair trial, in which no discount is made. In order to serve precisely these objectives, the legislature introduces a number of new regulations with more important reasons for excluding judges clearly and aligning the reasons for the exception with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, the possibility of the party to waive the application for judicial protection until the last debate, thereby achieving the release of the courts in cases for which there is no corresponding interest from the parties concerned, the introduction of the institution of the rapporteur - a judge, designated by the President of the Court and thus avoiding the adoption of a preliminary ruling. Articles 90 to 93 demarcate the decisive role of the President in any judicial formation which monitors the flow of cases and ensures that they are dealt with more quickly. This is done on the one hand by identifying manifestly unacceptable or unfounded applications for judicial protection and, on the other hand, by cases in the formation boards which it decides without the hearing being initiated. Article 104 regulates temporary status, temporary judicial protection. For the first time, there is the establishment of a special procedural procedure for the application of a charge normally carried out by the General Commissioner of the State at the Court of Auditors, while at the same time determining the rights of effective defence of the persons against whom the request is directed and also the first regulation in a clear and clear manner in the appeal procedure. Article 242 to 292 introduces for the first time arrangements for a full system of evidence, the role of the General Commissioner of State as a guarantor of the public interest is upgraded. In conclusion, I would like to refer to Article 358, which aims to modernise the entire judicial system by introducing arrangements for the statistical analysis of critical data that will help both judicial and executive powers by setting up an independent office to systematically collect and process statistics for the purpose of submitting proposals to the competent judicial bodies, the smooth flow of cases, the optimal number of persons employed in the various organisational structures, the quickest and most effective administration of justice, an internationally tested standard such as the Bureau of Justice Statistics and France, the Service Statistique du Ministère de la Justice. I'll close, like I started my report on this piece of legislation. There are, Minister, positive steps to improve quality in the administration of justice. Continue with determination and knowledge I believe that we can make this important pillar of the democratic operation in our country finally breathe and function intactly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Capatos has the floor now from New Democracy, and then the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Pafilis, will speak. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to monitor the trends, which public research over time shows about justice, we find two components that remain stable, the confidence of the citizens in the institution on the one hand and the time delay in dealing with their affairs on the other. In other words, we find a situation which at first reading seems contradictory. How can an institution in which citizens are slow in working at the same time trusting him to a high degree as a pillar of our democratic culture? This problem is about answering the bill we are discussing today. But let us see in practice some of the points we consider worthy of reference. With the Court of Auditors' procedural procedure we are incorporating regulations which either were part of the legislation or were applied mutatis mutandis by the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Administrative Procedure and which form a single text that is law-friendly. Article 89 enables the President of the Chamber to appoint a rapporteur - judge, who has as his obligation to draw up a complete administrative file until the court makes the case ready by opening the way to the conference, drawing up the decision by the rapporteur and its publication. This makes it more obvious to speed up the adoption of decisions for the benefit of the parties involved. In Articles 90 to 93, we provide the President of the Department with institutional tools to categorise cases by subject category, to identify the clearly unfounded or unfounded applications for judicial protection, and to seek critical data for the completion of the dossier. In this way, we are making it possible to monitor the flow of cases in its formation and to ensure that cases are dealt more quickly. This is therefore another brave institutional step towards strengthening the justice framework in our country. In addition to the existing powers of the Court of Auditors, we assign three new tasks, the identification of systemic management pathogens and the analysis of their causes, the assessment of the reliability of the internal control systems of the public administration and the carrying out of checks following a decision of Parliament, subject to broad political consensus. Finally, the Ministry of Justice acquires a new independent agency for the systematic collection and processing of statistics on justice. In other words, for the first time, we are allowing the administration of justice to take its decisions on the organisation and functioning of the courts on the basis of objective data reflecting the real situation in them. Ladies and gentlemen, I began my introduction with the reference to the relationship between the confidence of citizens in justice. The debate we are discussing today is not just about a section or an improvement in the working conditions of justice, but about a radical redefinition of the relationship with democracy, because a text that is comprehensive, comprehensive and understandable, a process of concrete and simplification at the beginning, mid-term and finally, and the introduction of new tools that favour these guidelines can only contribute decisively to the qualitative upgrading of the institutions of justice and the deepening of democracy in its operation. We are used, ladies and gentlemen, to characterise many of our legislative interventions in a series of areas of public policy as necessary. In the case of justice and the effort to operate more effectively and in depth the argument is given particular importance. It is necessary to maintain as citizens our confidence in the institution. It is crucial as legislators that we do not allow justice to be the subject of a sterile party confrontation. It is necessary not to forget the virtues that a good governor should serve, courage, consensus, moderation, magnanimity and justice. Especially for the latter, we have one reason above, since just a glimpse of the news is enough to confirm my words. A system of justice is effective at the same time as supporting the consolidation of democratic function, and when this is a risk our role as citizens and legislators is to identify it by treating it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u114	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, and for the brief speech. The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u115	What happens every time we discuss draft laws concerning justice, and not only is that the joint declaration - I say and note - should be made, the heavy announcements made, the common ones, the same by the government and today in the committee and by the members of the New Democracy, by SYRIZA, the Change Movement, that is, those who have ruled and ruled the country. What are the barbarians, where you all swear? Independent Justice, Minister, Ungrateful - SYRIZA - Autonomous. There's no one from SYRIZA here. You're all saying the same thing. Of course, SYRIZA also found the big difference now, which says: "We have ideological differences, we want justice that serves the community as a whole" and votes for the bill rather than by accident. How could this bill be entitled? Look, as far as the Court of Auditors is concerned, etc. Our rapporteur has said that many times, Maria Konnaka, that this codification, etc., all right. Of course, he has problems there, too, but that's what it looks like. What does not seem to be entitled: "justice to the service and protection of investors" and when we say to investors, that is, the profitability of business groups, unless they have become philanthropists and make investments to benefit Greece and give work to the workers who drink them blood to make profits. That's a social whole. That's the kind of justice we've had for five years, gentlemen of SYRIZA? Did you build the social whole of this justice? Justice for the community as a whole is that it will serve the interests of those who produce wealth and beat and remove those who exploit human sweat and blood sometimes, and that cannot exist, to speak between us and the past at least until capitalism and never happened. Independent, then, justice. Is justice independent? Really, it sometimes gets off the line of reason. It is not independent and we will say our position. Firstly, it is not independent because it is obliged to apply laws which are passed and which are unpopular. So the judge, and in honor of many judges, they're trying to find a emblem to defend the right. However, the framework is anti-grassy, it is a framework - not to start again and say it - which serves the principle of the system, which is that the driving force is the big capital, the business groups, which are also benefactors because they give jobs and if those who work stop, nothing moves. That is what they say and, therefore, the laws that are being voted on all this time are at the expense of the people. Isn't that right? Are business groups and giants destroyed with the memorials? Some have made more profits. I'll say more below. So it's not independent. It is in a context that serves a particular system. Secondly, careless and independent. Well we ask you very simply: Who appoints - to say defines - the leadership of justice? The government in question. Yes or no? On what criteria? On the basis of the criteria for her policy, I imagine not with merit. And we ask you, and SYRIZA and the Change Movement: The proposal that you used to support, which we used to have, be defined or elected by a broader elitism that we will be able to agree on, why do you not implement it? SYRIZA had announced her and came and did exactly what New Democracy did. Today, the New Democracy is saying about the independent and yesterday the cabinet - you have hypocrisy, the extreme - in the Committee of Parliament, at the Conference of Presidents, which is supposed to be our opinion, but they are predetermined what the Ministry will decide. There can simply be a differentiation for reasons of internal connections and jagging, which, to speak frankly, are actually happening. Who promotes who? His people, so I won't open my mouth and say even more. So why are you talking about independent justice? Thirdly, no interference in justice. You know, people laugh, and once laughing will turn into something else. Be sure. Who's interfering? Tell us. The JRC? Who? The trade union movement? Governments intervene in one way or another, and that comes out without a lot of philosophy, that when one is in Anti-Population one accuses one another and intervenes and when the roles change, it is the same. For all the parties I say, which they have ruled. Who else interferes with justice? I mean, no matter what. I don't want to blame anyone in particular, I mean by judges and others. There are remarkable people, there are people fighting. Big interests. Is it a lie, Minister? If it's a lie, we live on another planet and it's not a reality. This is where they gossip at the cafeteria anymore. We don't want to say any more. So to stop this hypocritical attitude of all the parties on independent justice, either as we have said in the perception that it is, that it serves certain anti-linguistic laws, or in the sense that we must leave the area of justice intact from political controversy. Well, are you kidding us? Since every government that comes changes justice and brings laws for them. It's simple logic, isn't it? Unless we're overreacting. You can give us some arguments, but that's the way it is. The bill in what direction does it move? He's making changes, taking steps. The Minister said that the bill continued the SYRIZA line, the same strategic line and is now trying to find waste. Don't be unconscious. We are critical of our policy. We don't do gossip politics, and you know it very well, and it makes sense. And, of course, that's why SYRIZA and the Change Movement vote at first, despite what has been said, because this bill is not... What characterizes it as something new is what we have said, the investment courts and all the rest of it, and here is a parade here - how am I supposed to say it? - Who better serves entrepreneurs and investors. We say it moves in a more reactionary direction. There are changes and reforms, although the term'reforms' is not always progressive. The reform is backwards, or the reform that seems to be reform can be more reactionary. It builds classic, harder class justice and we will prove it - we have proved it and said it again - more hostile than the people and workers, more precise for the people and workers, more friendly, more effective, more subordinate to business interests and more manipulated than the government they serve. And we're not looking to find out what's going on back. We interpret how these changes will work and we respond politically. Firstly, as far as investment courts are concerned, what is going on here? They are turning - and I will speak in urban terms not on our own - as you say justice from a neutral judge to a lever in the country's development, a protector of investors. Isn't that what Mr. Pikramenos said? Justice must be made subject to the economic development of the country. That will do with your logic, not ours. Or should it be objective and inadmissible and be axes if necessary? No, this is a strategic issue and it is not a small one, it is a huge one and we will continue. Is that a deafening? No, of course not. There is a strategy on the part of the New Democracy and the other parties. And who's that? You have shaped and shaped in worse terms now an institutional framework for fast track investment, such as self-assessment, lifting any security controls that existed the previous time in the logic that what the business groups are asking for must give them to make investments in our country. There's full immunity. You've created a wreath regime with industrial relations. There is no stable, permanent work. There are two-hour, three-hour, four-hour, payroll, redundancies, reduction of redundancies, strike laws, how will workers make decisions on strikes to favour the trade union movement and, at the same time, billions of funding and in the face of the health crisis. These are shaped. And now what does the government do? And it makes sense with her own philosophy to do it, but it's not deeply anti-grassy, it's deeply classic. What's he doing? It is trying to get all this through to justice in order to implement its strategy, i.e. to increase the profits of business groups. And you know what? The wealth is not produced by them. And you say - and here we will answer - they have funds and they will invest. Excuse me, but where did they get it from? From their mother's soul? From the exploitation of the robbery of the workers themselves! And when they come to invest - you know that, but you support it - they will bring conditions to make bigger profits. And these terms, apart from the release of any obstacles, are, secondly, industrial relations so that they can make a greater profit. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I will finish, Madam President. Give me some time. I have my denture, too, but I'm not going to talk. So in that direction. The other side, why do we say class? So answer us. Less state justice and greater mediation, i.e. privatization. Who benefits, Mr. Chiara and all of you? Because you say the same thing. Who favours the mid-term stage? Does it favour those who have money, the powerful? It favours those who may blackmail the other who are at risk of paying more and losing the case and are forced to submit it. This is what international mediation experience says about how it works. It works at the expense of the weak and in favor of the strongest. Of course, there might be exceptions, right? There may always be exceptions. But we say what the rule is. He will therefore have to make compromises, says "to lose everything, let me go back and where to run to court". Since you live on a daily basis, especially those who are lawyers and the whole world. And you tell us 'justice, everyone has the same chance'. Is it the same possibility - and I will say it more simply - that they use what's bigger than lawyers, tops and so forth, and that is the same possibility for a poor guy who's trying to find his point? Can he pay? Not only are the terminology so much - which can't be exhausted - but can he pay what he can pay for a big company with which he's confronted and can be right? What equivalence in accessing justice? Where do we live? In an angel society? Don't tell us that we also live in a communist society that all have the same rights! Third, does the cost of justice increase? That's why we say it's classic. Who is favoured by the increase? The most powerful, the ones who can pay even more. They'll drag you. Now look, look at the reality, where the rest of you are. They drag him down and he runs out and tells you "I can't pay anymore", while the other one takes him, and there they are heated, they don't account for human life or anything. Fourth theme, what is justice? Is it social goods or merchandise? You say justice is above, it's power second, that's it. What is it today? Is it a merchandise or isn't it? And now how do you come for the presumption yet? In the logic of cost-benefit. So it has no benefits for the state of this court, we shut it down. And what will people do from there? He should go - I know - to Chalkida or he should go somewhere else. How long will it go if they're pulling him? I'm on it again. So the logic of cost-benefit breaks the simple world, which cannot be dragged into judicial adventures. Fifthly, the changes which are being announced have not yet been made but, as you have said, they are coming - well-being and they are coming too soon - on the subject as a whole, both of the courts and of the judges. What are you going to do - see you now - with the abolition of the year - will it reign another thing - and the evaluation at the same time? Who's gonna do it? There's evaluation today. It's an evaluator. And if there's partial problems, you might be able to deal with them. But the general point is that the cases are being put on the table, because they have a little staff and others are getting cleaned up and they can't be any more, no matter what they decide. So, what do you say today? Assessment, effectively reducing judges, abolishing the year and something else: competition. This type of evaluation - and you will pay these to know these things along the way - creates competition and creates competition objectively so that one can go higher. And other things will create, to have political friends, that is to say go with the government, and of course there is something more important, which is the logic of the barbarity of the system: 'Your life'. I don't look at collective, as a body what I can do to improve, but the individual, to be able to become an empirical, to become an aerospace person, to become an atom, etc. etc. Finally, let us go to your great argument: development. This is what you call 'all investors'. Question: All these years, what do we have? What is there in all mankind? This system isn't there? Where's unemployment? Elevations. To cover the jobs, to make jobs. Isn't that a dead end? And anyway, it has collapsed and those who speak today when 10% of the world's population has over 90% of world GDP for the capitalist system and there is no other solution, just what they do - ideologically I say not otherwise - that they support the barbarity that exists. So we're telling you, let's get out of what the solution is. The solution is when a system rots and dies, it has to go out and enter new and replace it. This is a history of humanity, and that is socialism, which can offer - he has offered incredible things at those times - with the current level of development he can solve a great deal. But we are telling you: why do you not fund LARCO? Is it possible to close ‘LARCO’? Why don't you make stainless steel? Why don't you take advantage of the cobalt? Why don't you fund the EAB? Why don't you fund the Public Investment Project where development is needed and it is funded and a court is built where multinationals want it? Is it an accident that says "telecommunications and energy"? In other words, all Greece is filled with wind turbines and will be filled with bodies in a few years. Why are no more funding? Why the primary sector? Why do you give this money to a few business groups? That's how you want growth. I conclude by saying that we have tabled an amendment. No one's spoken for now. "Do the duck" everyone. I'm sorry to say that, but people understand. We have tabled an amendment on the basis of what is happening today and the boot that goes with the funds in the channels, with one another. She's all banded up. Total transparency, don't you? What do you mind? Why don't you all stand up and support it? It is not a communist thing that changes power. It's an amendment that says, after all, first... And now we will see the great ideological differences that you say about your system. People were dying of the coroner and private people were dying. And if they didn't take money, they didn't do anything. People were dying, and at the clinic - not to say her name - thirteen cases and not measures! People were in danger, as you say, throughout humanity, and the multinationals were killing who was going to get the vaccine first. Profit! They don't care about human life. The world was dying, and the British and the Americans - you have hymns - let him die helpless. That's your system. Is it possible to pay to advertise to get people out of a pandemic? To pay the Greek people themselves to give him propaganda what they will do! Why do you not accept this amendment you who are in favour of transparency and against corruption? I don't want to deal with Mr. Loverdo because he's missing. I won't do the same, but "he's been joined," they say. Instead of telling us about "SIEMENS", instead of telling us about "NOVARTIS", instead of telling us about one, instead of telling us about the other, it almost reached ancient Greece! Is that what you have to say? Tell us how much money there is. Will you tell us that LOCKHEED said it bought seventy governments? Are you going to tell us that SIEMENS paid billions in a hundred and twenty countries? You'll tell us that all - "NOVARTIS" and not to get... - Did they pay billions? Are you going to tell us that big companies sold cheese and died of plastics? Will you tell us about the conditions that exist today and animal production everywhere and people die for free? These are the big scandals and they are the birth of the system itself. And all that can protect us from this is a genuine popular labour power. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u116	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Dimitrios Biagis from the Change Movement now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u117	Madam President, until the honourable Member comes to Step, would you allow me for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u118	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u119	I will sum up after the Members' speeches have been completed. However, at this point I would like to put forward the legislative improvements so that they can also be made known to my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Minister. I would ask that they be photographed and distributed to the ladies and gentlemen. Here, Mr. Biagi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u121	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill, following recent political developments, could also be seen as timely. Nowadays, what has undoubtedly been proven is that the country needs areas and, indeed, areas that should have been done yesterday. If something has taught us yesterday it is that today it is the responsibility and duty of all of us to move forward immediately, optimally and quickly to radical changes in the institutions of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, the city is being discredited and questioned every day. Some para-state mechanisms point to their teeth. The institutions have lost their authority, have lost their strength, and their credibility is undermining. There is a serious institutional problem, which needs to be restored immediately. Democracy, transparency, justice, freedom of press, independence of the press are questioned every day. It is therefore urgently necessary to create a new governance model based on the principles of separation of powers and to guarantee the effective functioning, impartiality and transparency of institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no right to remain abstentioned. Transparency and informed citizen strengthen the arsenal of democracy. So answer, ladies and gentlemen of the government, for financial support to SMEs and for the logic with which you shared the EUR 20 million. Give the Pecha list the public, as it has been named. Ladies and gentlemen, society is dissatisfied and dissatisfied. Developments suggest that the areas are not just necessary but urgent for justice. This draft law contains provisions that move in this direction. However, as the special speaker of the Change Movement rightly pointed out, today's amendments and codifications of legislation are not sui generis. It is the result of the own legislative committee set up in 2018 by a decision of the then Minister of Justice under the chairmanship of the current President of the Court of Auditors. And what we are discussing today has been proposed by the Court of Auditors itself. It is therefore immediately understood that the country's judiciary has shown us a very comprehensive way of moving. Minister, if we want to continue to call ourselves a country, we must now raise the sleeves again and work on the fundamental issues that arise. We need to rebuild an institution, the institution of justice, which is a guarantor of democracy, will guarantee the city and the citizens and there will be no doubts about the validity and credibility of this, there will be no divisions, no questions. Citizens are trying to find their point and lose themselves in pluralism and bureaucracy, innumerable pages, in chaotic explanations of articles. It is all our responsibility to evolve, to simplify procedures, to codify, as is the case with this draft law, to finally go hand in hand with the needs of our time. In fact, if something emerged from the pandemic, it was the country that had to modernise and promote at the same time more flexible institutions, more functional, more helpful to the citizen with respect for the principles and values of the culture. This draft law essentially includes the establishment of a single procedural text for the Court of Auditors, which, as I said, had been prepared since 2018 by a legislative committee. A code of law on the Court of Auditors, which was also proposed by the Court of Auditors' plenary. Adopt a comprehensive legislative framework for pre-contractual audit by the Court of Auditors and provisions for the processing of judicial data, special sections in civil and administrative courts and other provisions. With regard to the introduction of provisions of a single procedure, I too would like to repeat that it is a positive development, because it eliminates outdated institutions which have essentially made citizens' access to justice difficult. There were too many procedural arrangements. After all, it is no coincidence that the plenary itself was directed towards a single codification. It is therefore a development which, in practice, demonstrates this need. It is very essential that this development, and it is also very positive that we are legislating today on simplification and codification, which is what justice needs, but also on all the institutions of the country, so that they can be more operational. But, before I finish my speech, Mr Minister, I should once again like to address a very important issue concerning our colleagues and lawyers. Minister, is the Prime Minister's commitment here in the Greek Parliament finally true or not? When will this EUR 800 finally be paid, the allowance given to them? You should, Minister, take very seriously into account that he is the only sector today that has not yet returned to the so-called normality. At the end of the month criminal courts are expected to begin. And let's see if we finally do this, based on the cases that are going to occur and the weekly health reports. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that all of this today concerns amendments and codifications which are necessary and necessary in the right direction. But it is not a top priority. The question of the solvency and safeguarding of the culture is now being raised, and the question of the credibility of the institutions is being raised. And in this respect, we must not be inactive, because if we do not react and do not make any changes, unfortunately developments the next day will be bleak for the whole country and for our democracy. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Biziu from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill from the Ministry of Justice, but it also has a development sign. Justice and, more specifically, the speed in the administration of justice is one of the most important factors for the social stability and economic development of a country. Problematic justice creates obstacles to the daily lives of the citizen and clamps on investment and entrepreneurship. In the index "doing business 2019" Greece is in the thirty-eighteenth second place in a total of ninety countries as to the speed of the administration of justice. Unfortunately, an undertaking aimed at Greek justice will expect an average of a thousand five hundred eighty days to resolve its dispute. So we cannot talk much more about achieving strong growth and competitiveness unless we improve the speed in the administration of justice to create a sense of trust among people who want to invest in Greece. The bill under discussion provides for the possibility for the political prototypes and appeals of Athens and Thessaloniki to create sections dedicated specifically to resolving specific cases relating to communications, energy and personal data, that is to say, areas that are extremely critical to the development and investment objectives of our country. The same is true of the administrative courts, as is the case in the case of special departments for a specific category of administrative disputes. The establishment of these chambers is left to the plenary session of the courts, which are solely responsible for judging the need to create such a chamber, without - I stress this - any intervention on the part of the State. Administering these Chambers by specialised judges is a guarantee of faster decision-making, as the judges will deal with cases of their specialisation. It is no coincidence that in recent years the European Union has focused its interest in the relationship between the organisation and the functioning of the judicial systems of the Member States and their economic and social development. Effective judicial systems are crucial for a state's economic life, especially in times of economic crisis, because they play a key role in restoring confidence and returning to growth. In a state where justice operates in a predictable environment, in the sense that judicial decisions are adopted in reasonable time and are implemented, the appropriate structural conditions exist for an attractive business landscape. Innovative measures, however, introduce the bill under discussion and in the field of the organisation and operation of the Court of Auditors. One of the most important tasks of the Court of Auditors is to monitor State expenditure, preventive and repressive, both public and OTA. Its competence is also to charge public accounting, i.e. to control and make account of public managers. In this context it has the power to draw up and report to Parliament, which in turn should take into account the proposed problems of financial management, accepting the fact that the information of the representatives of the people and the achievement of transparency mechanisms in the management of public finances by executive bodies is one of the Court of Auditors' institutional powers. These reports shall ensure that Parliament and, by extension, the public are informed of the proper and sound management of public money, of any overruns and infringements of the relevant institutions in their management, as well as of the specific infringements of budgetary laws. The purpose of the reports is to guide the competent management bodies in order to deal properly with future similar situations through general and specific observations, proposals and thoughts of the Court of Auditors, on how best to manage public money. The country passed a ten-year crisis during which the Greek people were overtaxed and were called upon to make huge economic sacrifices. Today the Greek people are not willing to tolerate any suspicion of the smuggling of public money. We have promised that we will strengthen accountability and transparency mechanisms and these arrangements introduce innovation in this direction. This draft law enables Parliament to request priority checks planned by the Court of Auditors. For the first time, Parliament will be able, when informing the President of the Court of Auditors, to ask for priority to be given to some of the audits planned or to express interest in carrying out and audits on weaknesses in public management systems. The House, the representatives of the citizens, therefore, not the governments nor the ministers have this valuable tool in their hands, have the opportunity to exercise control when they consider it necessary. There are a lot of innovative provisions in the bill, which I could really talk about for hours. Before I close, I would like to make a reference to the importance of the creation of the Office for the Collection and Processing of Judicial Statistics, which aims to submit proposals to the relevant judicial bodies, on the flow of cases, on the number of persons employed in the various organisational structures, on the treatment of structural and operational distortions and, of course, on the faster and more effective administration of justice, which is, moreover, the main issue of this draft law. The political leadership is now given the opportunity to have measurable data in its hands, invaluable to the future design of justice policies. This is a reformist, modernist bill aimed at speeding up and improving the administration of justice, because an effective judicial system is crucial for the economic presence of a state. This is a draft law on justice really reformative, which promotes speed and quality in the administration of justice, which means that it promotes the stable legal environment, the investor-friendly environment. Before all, however, it promotes transparency and independence in justice. I am sure that all colleagues in this Chamber are interested in transparency, good administration and independent justice. I therefore urge you to vote in favour of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, my colleague. Given that the rapporteurs and speakers will not give a second answer, I would ask the Minister to close the procedure. How much time do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u125	Five, eight minutes, not too much, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u126	Good. Here, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that on the fifth day of the debate on this bill - yes, it is the first in plenary, but another four meetings had taken place in the relevant parliamentary committee - quite a little - the landscape in which we are moving about this bill is quite clear. And I think that in addition to the different ideological approaches, the overwhelming majority of colleagues and parties actually accepts that this bill is moving in the right direction, not - I repeat - because we are trying to take laurels on a decision or a choice that may be created as a result of our own particular position, but because, with this bill and with the case law of the Court of Auditors and with the establishment of a Statistical Directorate in the Ministry of Justice, we are also taking a very big reform step towards speeding up justice. And I think we all have to see it from this point of view. I believe that it would be an important reason for all colleagues and all political parties to stand positively against the draft law proposed by the government. Very few comments on what has been said earlier and which I think to a large extent unfair the debate itself, always, of course, to a legitimate and'reasonable' - within introductory - political controversy. I heard the parliamentary spokesman for the Civilian Representation earlier saying that the government is under pressure and attempting to divert. Really, who thinks that right now? I say this because if we see the reality not only in the central political scene, but also in matters relating to the acceptance of the government in general from the Greek society itself, the last one that could claim as a serious and reasonable argument, in order that it might judge the general debate of a bill by the Ministry of Justice, I think that would be that. Look, I would like to make it clear once again that the Ministry of Justice and I personally have no involvement and no involvement with issues relating to a parliamentary procedure, in what is involved in the pre-review committee. It is a very special function, or - if you like - the role of a parliamentary committee or Parliament in general, in relation to the central government scene and government competence. And we need to understand that once and for all, and we need to take the next step with the absolute conviction and the view that these practices, which may have been working in the past, have no place and no reason in this brave step that we are trying to do, especially in the field of justice. I also heard some comments about the EUR 10 million that was the pre-contractual audit for the ESRB programmes, which went to EUR 5 million, and we want to increase it. I just need to make it clear: it was EUR 10 million with the legislation in force earlier, we took it to EUR 5 million, we do not want to increase any limit. I say this because it is sometimes not understood and is shown in a different way. We were the ones who lowered the line. And I will repeat - Mrs Giannakopoulou, I told you, you have understood from the very beginning - that we do not have inexhaustible human resources. I wish we could carry out any checks at any time at any time can be moved for whatever reason and, of course, have a public body or a local government body involved as a body involved. For the question you have asked concerning the extension of the military judges, I will say it once again - I said it the other day - that, with the Constitutional Review, there is a uniformity of the time and term of the military judges with the 'political' - within introductory - judges. This, of course, needed an implementing law in order to function. The reason why we are coming and doing the adjustment of the extension for a year is precisely because there is no law in place. It's not just the justice department's competence. It is an issue that has a wider dimension and a broader impact, and that is why we have not had the law to date. From there on, I imagine you will understand that this is neither a photographic provision nor, of course, any other feasibility which could lead to second or third thoughts. There are answers to colleagues' questions that were earlier here. If I am not mistaken, Mr Hatzigiannakis - he is not here, Mr Xanthopoulou - raised two issues which I think can be answered. There may be no reason. I'll give him the answers in writing. Ladies and gentlemen, I and my colleagues have also attempted all the questions you raised during your speech at a previous time during the committees, to give them back in writing, precisely for the time economy, and why you realise that it would be almost impossible for me to answer more than ten questions personally for more than ten issues that each of the parties' fellow rapporteurs raised. From that point on, I repeat that my firm position and my firm belief is that all these steps concerning the Ministry of Justice and the legislature of the Ministry of Justice are steps that we must take together, and we must do them together, without the well-known political or ideological references, with the sole aim of justice being found at the level of its institutional role, to regain absolute independence and, of course, to regain the confidence of the Greek citizens for the independence and the right role of Greek justice. It is the minimum obligation each of us has on this site and on the basis of the role assigned to it. It is the minimum obligation that all of us have to do with the present and the future of Greek society. I would like to ask you to vote in favour of the bill proposed by the government. Of course, I repeat that we are always in the crisis of Greek citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: "The Single Code of Procedure for the Court of Auditors, an integrated legislative framework for pre-contractual control, amendments to the Code of Law on the Court of Auditors and provisions for the effective administration of justice". We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution at first reading. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u129	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u130	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u131	After the conclusion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: "The Single Code of Procedure for the Court of Auditors, a comprehensive legislative framework for pre-contractual control, amendments to the Code of Law on the Court of Auditors and provisions on the effective administration of justice" were accepted in the first place by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Monday 4 May 2020 (morning and evening sitting), Wednesday 6 May 2020, Monday 11 May 2020 and Wednesday 13 May 2020 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u132	The Minutes of Monday 4 May 2020 (morning and evening sitting), Wednesday 6 May 2020, Monday 11 May 2020 and Wednesday 13 May 2020 have therefore been ratified. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-25-S1-commons.u133	With the agreement of the House at 16.52 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 26 June 2020 at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
