ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning and good month. The meeting's on. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Agreement on Acquisition and Mutual Service (Application) between the Ministry of Defence of the United States, represented by the Department of Defence of the Administrative Services - Energy and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, represented by the Hellenic Air Force on the reciprocal supply of fuel". Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Agreement on Acquisition and Mutual Service (Application) between the Ministry of Defence of the United States, represented by the Department of Defence Management - Energy and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, represented by the Hellenic Navy, on the reciprocal supply of fuel". The drafts were adopted in the Standing Committee by a majority. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of these agreements. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u2	The House agreed. From the JRC, which has voted against in committee, Mr Papapastasis will speak. The Greek Solution has been reserved. Mr Hetas will be speaking and, if necessary, the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group will come as far as I am concerned. The Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sakova, will then speak on behalf of Mera25. Mr. Papastasis, you have the floor for five minutes. I would ask that the time be respected, in view of the fact that we also have an amendment to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. The Communist Party of Greece has already expressed its opposition to the ratification of the two mutual service agreements between Greek Defence Ministries and the United States on the mutual supply of fuel on floating and flying means of the Navy and the Air Force. Our party disagreed, by putting the parties that have governed to date, namely the New Democracy, SYRIZA and PASOK - KINAL, who were successively handing over the dough to the other party, so that we could reach the current ratification. Since 1996 on the PASOK Government, which entered into the initial agreements, the first signatures, with their extension to PASOK again in 2000 and their amendment to the New Democracy 2005, have come to their completion on SYRIZA in 2017 and the New Democracy has brought them to us today for ratification. These agreements may, of course, in some way, be considered to be applicable to the wider strategic agreement between Greece and the United States. But they clearly show the creepy understanding of urban parties' policy when they are going to help Euro-Atlantic designs. This conspiracy is part of the core of your policy and it could not be otherwise. Because this intense involvement in imperialist demands is a central part of the country's bourgeois order. The positions adopted in the respective committee in the debate of the two agreements have repeatedly highlighted the need to upgrade relations between Greece and the USA. You are well aware, however, that this upgrade actually identifies the huge extent of the country's involvement in dangerous American - naval projects, in their tough competition with Russia and China. It is precisely this upgrade, through which the urban order of the country hopes to multiply its profits and fields of investment, overlooking the seas that it participates in converting the wider area into a bartender. Greece's further involvement in these projects, beyond others, goes through the tightening up of critical sectors for the defence of the country, such as shipbuilding and defence industries, to the United States of America's and NATO's objectives and dangerous pursuits. It also passes through our country's role in planning Europe's energy decommissioning from Russian gas and blocking Chinese infiltration of 5G networks. And all this in the interests of the United States. But what involves the greatest risk is the operational attachment of the country's Armed Forces to these designs, a fastening that is embodied in the design of their new structure and armaments programmes, whether they are in implementation or simply announced. The certain thing is that the Greek Armed Forces are involved in the implementation of the naval demand to strengthen its south-eastern wing. Except that - the responsibility for this lies with all the governments to date - the Greek workers pay it with their sweat. As if not all of this were enough, yesterday, through the Pompelo declarations, another extension of the Souda base was announced. It is an extension, not just spatial planning, but a reinforcement of its aggressive role, and that is precisely the evidence of this and the permanent portrait of the American helicopter "Herschel Woody Williams". We have repeatedly stressed that the escalating increase in the aggressive military infrastructure of the USA in our country, particularly through the bases, is dramatically increasing the risks, not only at the expense of neighbouring peoples and countries, but also for the Greek people themselves. Such bases, such as Souda, the'shipboard of military cooperation between the two countries', but also of Alexandroupolis and others, not only do they protect the people and the country, but they pooren them. Official warnings, both from Russia and Iran, are also known for target countries for American imperialism. Nor must we forget the statements made by the well-known and unexplainable Piatt, who are really interpreting the American - naval movements in our country and also more widely. As a new ambassador to Greece, in the autumn of 2016, he declared completely cynical “There is a chart with three circles. One relates to North Africa, the other to the Eastern Mediterranean and Syria and the third to the Black Sea and a more aggressive and expansionist Russia. The place where these three circles meet is Greece". This is the existing strategic framework. Two words, now, for the recent visit of Pompeo. There have been many who, with supersoft and funny characters, have tried to create a climate of expectation for supposedly a resounding message of support from the United States of Greece. They were expecting it. Pompelo, with absolute consistency in the current American policy, did not come up with a word on the escalating Turkish aggression against the sovereign rights of Greece and Cyprus. However, the New Democracy Government continues to cultivate false expectations of support from the United States, taking on enormous responsibilities. It continues to upgrade the dangerous policy launched by the SYRIZA Government, a policy based on the strategic agreement between Greece and the USA, an agreement supported by other urban parties. Our people now have plenty of evidence to avoid wasting their confidence in a policy - your policy - which places the protection of the peace and sovereign rights of the country to the allies, the USA, NATO, the European Union, that is, those who are effectively undermining it. We, and on the occasion of today's debate, call on the people to withdraw this confidence from both the government and the parties that support the bloody American - naval plans on behalf of the country's bourgeoisie. Now it is necessary to strengthen its struggle to unlock the country from the imperialist plans, for the non-change of borders and conditions that define them, for the release from NATO and the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Papastasis. Mr. Konstantinos Hetas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. The fact is that there has been a lot of discussion in the committee so far about these two conventions. Some people treat them as two simple contracts for fuel. But that's not the way it is. We will now explain why. We cannot distinguish them from a more general, more geopolitical, military setting that has been created, all this scene that has changed irresponsibly lately. Balance changes. Things are not what they were, nor can we deal with them all in a light and say: 'Come on, however, two conventions on fuel are. They shouldn't even have come to Parliament." That's not exactly the way it is. Force correlations have changed and are constantly changing. You know what doesn't change that time? Turkey's aggressive behaviour is not changing. We will try to explain why we are not voting in favour of these two conventions today, however simple it may be for some. What does the Greek Government do for all this? Whatever it's been doing for so long. Submissiveness, fearfulness, submissiveness. I include what I say in a more general context of the Greek Government's behaviour and reaction and we will explain why we are not voting on these two conventions. We now have two new agreements with the United States and on these agreements, which you are exploiting, you are setting up communications games. What do they anticipate of these agreements? There is provision for a reciprocal supply of fuel between the two countries for the Air Force and the Navy. Who benefits most? Let's see that, too. Because "American wins, I win" is a logic that levels everything. Who wins the most? The Minister of National Defence himself said yesterday in committee that the United States is trying more in the Mediterranean than we are. Something else very important, because what we say and what we do is do with the interests of our country. Is it true or not - would we like an answer - that for all these fuels the United States does not pay Greece VAT? I am presenting for the practical official response of the 2017 Minister for Defence, which states that air fuel is exempted from VAT. It is an answer to a question in the context of Parliamentary Control. He states: ‘The supply of air fuel is made by conclusion of contracts concluded with care of the Air Force with exemption from VAT and the Special Consumption Tax, in accordance with existing legislation’. So that's true. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why not win the state and that? Winning. Mr. Vitsa, you were trying to tell me that it is reasonable to vote on it, but we found some points that do not allow us to vote on them. I'm on it again. Everything's not broken. It is our general policy and attitude to the Americans. We have made it clear as a Greek solution that we will always do with the national interest. Pompeo's here. What's he got here to do? He's here to do business with Americans. Biscuits are here to do, normally. He came with honors, planet commander. Unbelievable! So, what do we have to tell from the conventions we have to sign? First, he came to do his election in Chania. Clearly, he came to do his election in Chania. We welcomed him, as if he were head of state. Let me ask you: should Lavrov, Russia's Minister for Foreign Affairs, or Wang Yi, China's Minister for Foreign Affairs, do we have the same? Are we going to welcome them like that or are we just in America so sensitive? As I told you, it came to shut down business, the ports - we have said so many times - in Thessaloniki, Alexandroupolis, Kavala, consortia with Skopje, under the aegis of America. There was a delegation from Skopje and the media did not say so. As Kyriakos Velopoulos has said many times, we will reach the point with this agreement and with the ports we are doing, Skopje, as an enclosed state, to seek access to the port of Thessaloniki. You'll see. He's said it a hundred times. You never listen to him. It's time you heard him. How do the media present them? Pompeo's here and we've won a lot, fuel, etc. Here's the American helmet. Hershel Woody Williams came because of Pompeo. They do not say, however, that this is already foreseen in the Greek-American Defence Pact, which we signed here months ago. He's been through the House. That was predictable. He's saying it clearly. Fleeting - to say any truth and not just to watch the channels, because we will be lost at the end - of the 'Hershel Woody Williams', this great helicopter, is already included in the agreement signed by Greece and America and it is not something fresh or something new. What are the exchanges made by the Americans against all these services offered by our country? We've given it all up, bases, everything! What are the exchanges? We would therefore like, Minister, to give us more and clearer assurances and we would also like America to have been clearer toward us and to have a comparative advantage over Turkish provocation. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case. That is why we will not vote in favour of these two conventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Heta. The Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sophia Sakorafa, is now called in Stepma. Here, Mrs. Sacorafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are called upon to discuss the ratification of two agreements by the Ministry of National Defence with the United States' counterpart for the mutual supply of fuel for the Navy and the Air Force respectively. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to start with a point. Based on today's practice and experience, such military agreements with NATO, etc., are not used to coming to the House for ratification. It is at least strange that you consider - for some reason - that these two agreements fall within the scope of Article 36(2) of the Constitution, and so, in particular, they require legislative ratification, since, as the explanatory memorandum expressly states, they are considered as international agreements on trade and economic cooperation. As a result, the following questions are raised: Are they not, in the end, formal agreements on allied defence cooperation? Are these trade agreements of our country with the United States, which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs simply concludes? Both agreements follow the formal form of the respective agreements concluded by the United States with their allies. Their essential objective is to create a network of military management in the United States, either for direct use by them or for the benefit of their sovereignty by involving third countries. These agreements provide for the possibility of a direct supply of military aircraft, airborne means and ships without a direct payment or prepayment of the value of fuel. This supply will, in fact, also apply to all countries which have concluded an agreement with the United States. There is also provision for the possibility of a quantitative arrangement of fuels granted, as well as the possibility of supplying, through Greece and non-domestic vessels of the Ministry of National Defence. And that is what matters, ladies and gentlemen. They are agreements - facsimile. They have the same content as those of the United States with a multitude of allied countries. You will allow me, therefore, to say that for such agreements - carbonnes, only in virtual terms, there can be talk of negotiation. The same predictions in dozens of US contracts with allied states leave no room for invoking any alleged success, which was allegedly the subject of any negotiation. Furthermore, the wording of the agreements on supposedly mutual supply is obviously virtual and misleading. The implementation of the contracts will in fact relate to the obligation to supply fuel from us to the United States, but also to their allies and comparatively minimal supplies to our country. The truth is that there has been an attempt, during the committee procedure, to show some benefit to these agreements for our country, through the reciprocity that governs them. First of all, all the information so far relates - as has been said - occasional, informal refuelling facilities. They cannot therefore be compared to the commitment framework established by the agreements in question. Even from this, however, I would mention that, for the aviation sector, for example, for 2018, it appears that we supplied more than sixty-two-fold fuels than we have supplied. This is where I'm going to give another parentheses. We have heard that agreements will be useful for our country, because we do not have a specific type of fuel for helicopters and aircraft, so we will obtain them from the United States. The question goes without saying: When will we finally be able to have these fuels without mediating from the United States? You know, this is where the fundamental issue of autonomy arises. If, for some reason, at a certain juncture, the United States, even on a temporary basis, close this string, it is possible to use even our modern weapon systems. In reality, therefore, it appears that the content of the recitals on benefit and reciprocity are pretentious. They say the agreements are considered beneficial to our country, because they contribute positively to supplying our Air Force and the Navy. Indeed, it would be interesting to hear some examples of the prospect of implementing these fuel agreements on Greek warships, aircraft and flying instruments. The reporting of individual incidents, such as the refuelling of Greek helicopters in Souda, cannot obscure the overall real picture. On what missions - obviously outside Greece - can it be useful for us to implement these conventions? In the end, we are talking only about actions that are far from our territory, namely cases that are not linked to the Greek national defence and the National Mission of the Armed Forces. There is also a critical dimension here, ladies and gentlemen. Greek warships or aircraft participated in the past and may also be involved in naval exercises or even operations away from our country. Their absence, however, inevitably weakens our defensive device and reduces our overall defence capacity. In any case, let me return to the agreements. It is certain that this is again two particularly heterogeneous agreements, covering the needs of supply of the United States Navy and Air Force, but also their allies in our country and, indeed, at a time when tension in our wider region is increasing dangerously. With their signature, we are committed to supplying supplies not only to the United States but also to their allies, which have concluded similar agreements with them, to the United States which are involved in conflicts, as I shall mention, for example, Turkey and the United Arab Emirates. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece's kneeled Memorandum, condemned by them to sub-financing the Armed Forces, will now be obliged to provide such facilities to the United States and its satellites. I particularly emphasise the economic situation in our country, because here we have another paradox. Memorandum policies are the predicament that drowns the already clandestine economy in Greece and it is certainly well known that both the United States and Germany are responsible for the memorandum of Greece, both through the International Monetary Fund and through the European Central Bank and the European Commission. And yet, contrary to what is happening to the Memorandum of Greece, these same countries offer a sign of salvation for the Turkish pound and, more generally, for the economy of Turkey - I stress it - today that Turkey is escalating its policy against our country and turning directly against our national sovereignty. Today's historic juncture proves that, unfortunately, the Greek political alliances have no significant effect on Erdogan's escalating policy in the Eastern Mediterranean. It is an aggressive policy that directly turns against sovereign rights both against Greece and against Cyprus. In view of all this and beyond what we have said and applied to the very nature and content of these agreements, we believe that it is a national obligation to vote against these agreements. That is why our party, Mera25, will vote against these agreements both at first and in the articles. Our negative attitude substantially strengthens the negotiating tactics of a Greek government towards the United States to the extent that it would actually have intended to achieve the greatest possible benefits for our country. One last thing, ladies and gentlemen, which I have said in committee. We, at least on the other hand, do not think that it can benefit our national interests from its policy of always willing and given allies. This policy is also being implemented with the agreements which we are discussing today. I'm closing, Mr. President. We would really hope that the naive and incomplete tactics of this ally have not already caused any harm to the international perspective of our country and to the real protection of our national interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Madam President. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. I wouldn't like to start like this, but talking to Andreas Loverdos, I'll start. You bring a bill on citizenship and you include a change in this law in relation to the parties' leaders. It is customary for the parties' leaders to choose three constituencies during the election process, by election and election. So there is an article that Mr Theodorikos brings with it - to rejoice with - which overthrows all the imperialities. We said reform the state, but you're totally demolishing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u10	We didn't hear that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u11	We say that the right of a Head of State to choose three and not one deprives him now of the new bill of citizenship, which is being discussed in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u12	So, one is done now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u13	One is done now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u14	We didn't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u15	And I wonder, Mrs. Gennimata, Mr. Tsipras, the smaller parties, why don't they react to that? They're bringing it to committee. It had to be a matter already. Let's call the Prime Minister. With what right, someone, because he woke up one morning wrong, deprives the parties of their right to choose three electoral districts from a process of decades? I don't understand. Honestly, you're completely out of line. You do what you want, you don't ask anyone. Listen to whoever you want, decide what you want. I don't want to think differently. However, at least what concerns the presidents of the parties should be discussed with the Presidents of the parties. How does Theodorikos decide something without asking anyone? I don't understand it, honestly! I don't get it. Why that premiere? I hope he gets it back. I wish Mr. Tsipras, Mrs. Gennimatas and the rest of the leaders would react. It's been a decades since this story. Do you guys make everything now and get into this process? I don't get it. Make up the rest and leave these in here. I understand why you're doing this. It's a poaching, I'll tell you directly. Because in the small parties, when the Chief of the Electoral Region is chosen, the candidates understand that the seat has already been lost. But that kind of pussy anymore? Such a spoon can someone have to make a poach? So let's go to the rest. What is the problem with the Greek political system? We live in the policy of the past decades where the world was bipolar. There was the Soviet Union and the United States and you said - the former politicians from you - "we belonged to the West". That is why you said the East - the Soviet Union - and the West. People are not monopolies. The world is now multipolar, other powers emerged. I will not say about China or Russia alone, I will say about India, the middle powers, as they are called in geostrategic. Because it's supposed to save you well, dragging behind American orders, I don't understand. Why does it have to save and well drag behind America? In the end, we do not "love in the West", but belong to Greece, we belong to the nation, to our home country, and where our interest predicts, we can choose. I didn't understand SYRIZA. You were left once why do you vote everything for Americans? Even for fuel, why? Not even a reaction, something to say? Where are you on the left? You once ran to the marches with a slogan "outside the bases of death". And for PASOK itself, but PASOK was transformed along the way. You at SYRIZA, that kind of mutation? What the Americans say? "The foundations of death" and all that we've been talking about in the past, what happened? I don't know if you understood it, but with this story, you're sitting here and you're signing everything they bring you here for America, we're giving them a wreck. I'll tell you something that bothered me. I don't choose camps. I choose a camp, that of Greece. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible for the Prime Minister of Russia to come last week, Saturday, Sunday on Mount Athos and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs not to send a single representative to meet him. Where have you seen this? Is Russia's Prime Minister coming and not sending anyone to see him? How can you negotiate, even with your ally, the United States, to get something more than playing, but geopolitical geostrategic is chess. You've been there all the time. Because you have your parrots talking a number of nonsense on the channels, I have heard the following oxymoil, that we can transfer the base of Ingirlick to Souda. We're talking nonsense - nonsense! - For two reasons. The first reason is that only Turkey can draw away the base of Ingirlick from there. Check and read the deal a little more. You come here and say what you want. Do you get the reporters to lie to the Greek people, but here too, to lie? The second argument is very simple. The base of Ingirlick is not for the eyes of the Turks. It's because they want the Americans to set up missiles there for Iran. From Souda they don't get to Iran easily, understand it. The country called the United States is not going to leave Ingirlick. They'll never leave this country. Understood! We just don't negotiate right. So why don't you just say what Greece is missing? You signed the fuel. Even at the Navy, ladies and gentlemen of the Left, everything is duty-free. They don't pay a single euro tax - not only VAT - do you understand that? This is a colonial agreement, not just for fuel. At the shipyard, which they already do, they won't pay tax at all, everything will be tax free. All of it! Poor Greece will not get a single euro tax from rich America. What kind of politics can that be? Colonial? Oh, no! I'll tell you otherwise. It's ergot! It's a slave agreement between us and the United States. Because many of you do not believe it, I will tell you that I had asked a question in 2011 to the Minister - since then - about the fact that all the bases have free of all, even their food. What we do with the United States, friends and friends, reminds me of the Athenian Alliance. If you remember well, the well - known Alliance of Delos was exactly the same, the Athenians ate and the others paid. That's how it's done now, America eats, and the Greeks pay. Don't we get it? Why? Because I'm not against good relations with the United States. Far from me anti-American or anti-Americans, but it matters what my country wins from any agreement we make with another country. Here, New Democracy daring last Monday to bring an agreement on Azerbaijan, while it is being slaughtered on the Armenians. Fortunately, we reacted and took it back. I'm telling you, the politician has to predict. We're on our own the wrong side. I'll prove it to you now, with evidence. Assad is an enemy of the Turks. Greece is an enemy of Assad and we are not opening an embassy. Haftar is an enemy of the Turks in Libya, and it seems that he is emerging again as a force. I said it, I met with him in Athens. We're Haftar's enemies. I mean, we constantly make mistakes, we make real mistakes. I am not talking about Azerbaijan, which many ministers and MPs, for example, are working there. Don't forget, PASOK Mandelis works in Azerbaijan. The good relations between our country and the TAP pipeline were because the New Democracy then made the crime make the pipeline, which is the only one in the world, who does not pay transit fees. The only pipeline in the world, Azerbaijanese interests - by extension US - does not pay for crossing fees in Greece! Why would the pipeline go through here? Anyway, is he competitive, friends, and friends, Russia, but don't I win anything? On the other hand, with Armenia, a balance of terror from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Not even a statement! I'm not saying it's our homonymous country. I say it's a small, weak, peripheral country has enemies and must be supported. There is no point in making a statement, as Mr Paulakis said, from the American declaration and the German one. You're following the wrong lines. This agreement, ladies and gentlemen, reminds me of what Panagiotis Kanelopoulos said. Do you remember what he said? 'Behold, your army.' He was telling the American general. Okay, 'Behold, your army', but it's also a Greek army. How "Behold your army", behold your country? For 'WILLIAMS' and, the well-known Souda, the institutional analysts in the channels celebrate at 'SCAI' here. What have you done to them? You have dizzyed them in 'SKAI'. You have made them all more neo-democratic than you. So much lies in SKAI I have never heard of, saying that it will be permanently portrayed, and it will be a fearful one - it says - for Turkey. I read to you what Pompeo said about 'WILLIAMS', so that you do not have any illusions and lie to the Greek people: 'This particular ship will come for permanent portrayalism in the Souda Navy' - Pompeo says it - 'is a perfect choice and a very important development because Russia is destabilising the area'. Pompeo says it. It does not bring it to protect Greece from Turkey, it brings it to protect American interests - and it does well! - against Russia. Why should I get involved? In my village, they say that when the buffalo fights, the frogs pay her. You made our country a frog! Understood, he's a normal frog! Because time is not too much, I will tell you the following about the Pompeo Declaration, to understand that you are hiding news: It is about an agreement that is very important, but Mr Ignatiu speaking at State Department has asked a question - listen! - if the Americans asked to withdraw US weapons systems from the islands. Why are they doing this? Because here you say that's not the case. And the representative of the State Department comes out and confirms it, that the Americans are asking for the withdrawal of the US military systems on the grounds that it is a naval country Turkey and that they cannot be used as a threat to Turkey. And the government is discussing it, the government is dialogued because the Americans are asking for it. There is a statement from the State Department and, of course, the announcement from Pompeo was a "accommodable" of the false Greek foreign policy of the New Democracy. We extend bilateral activities, not to say any more, to Larissa, Stefanovicio, increased cooperation in Souda, access to a port of Alexandroupolis - why Alexandroupolis LAG Kopelouzos - we look forward - says - Thessaloniki - worthy. What did he actually say? That they took it all. I ask the Greek Government what we got. Did we get something? Something specific, not a statement, in particular, protection with the US forces against Turkish eyelids. Did we get something? Tell me what we got? If you tell me what we got, I'm with you. But there isn't. At the same time before Pompeo came, the United States Embassy goes out to Ankara and questions the map of Seville. If I ask anyone in here who's the map of Seville, he won't know. A few people you'll know, I guess. What's the map of Seville? Theodore Rusopulus laughs. You're one of the few people you know, Mr. Russopoulou. Ask the rest of the three hundred. The map of Seville has been built for decades with all the EEZs of the European Union. All of them! That is, Greece, Cyprus, Italy, France. The institutions have been mandated by Europe. Institutional paper, document. The Spanish Institute did so and the United States Embassy comes out of Turkey and says that this map does not accept it, and after two days we meet Pompeo and we don't tell him anything - this is the American Embassy's tweet in Ankara. In other words, Greece does not accept that Greece has an EEZ with Cyprus. Your American friends! Your friends, your acquaintances, your friends. Pompeo, who was gladly taken by the Prime Minister to his house in Chania, with festivities and fireworks, what nice, insane, madness and good ate. They took it all and the Americans left. Once in Greek films were Americans. Now they're passing us for Greeks. Because with such leaderships, we'll be Greeks. Greek suckers! I really want you to understand what crimes they're committing. With all that's happened, Russia's Embassy comes out and makes an announcement against us. Why should we become the “meal of shame” without gaining something? I should like to be a "profile of shame", but not to have the Russian Embassy make a statement about anti-Americanism of the Greek government, indirectly and directly. These are incredible things that need to be stopped.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u16	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u17	I would like the Minister of National Defence, since he is here, to see this story with the Radar 'TLEMACHOS'. Do you know the "TELEMACH" radar, Minister? I guess you don't know that. LAPD has it in its drawers, it's this one, I'll give it to you for the Minutes. It's a radar which breaks down drones at all times and at all times. They did Greek hands, but this story is still in drawers, Minister. Greek hands! And you sell EAB when it already has Stealth ready for 2024 and when it has the "TELEMACHOS" radar that breaks down to 2,000 and 3,000 meters. So I quote that to you to look into it, because it is very important to get past it like this. But when you have a Prime Minister - I will say this with very sympathy - who does not realize that when he makes a statement, and says the Greek is a nation-state - because it is important - he copied the American revolution, it sounds beyond it. The revolution of 1821 is a copy - it says - of the American revolution. He's totally messed up! One is nationwide and the other was revolution against the English. What does one have to do with the other? I don't get it. These are historical verbalities by Prime Minister, not Velopoulos, or a Minister or a MP. You can't compare the 1821 National Revolution to the American Revolution. It seems that this is why he put Angelopoulou, the same view of her, or else he would not. I also want to make a complaint, gentlemen. Mrs Bakoyannis went to Thrace - there is a committee in Thrace, which we are members of - and met the Turkish scientists. Mr. Loverdo, did you hear? It is the association of Mr Baltatzis, the Association of Minority Sciences of Western Thrace. They say Turks. They say so themselves. Their right, but to go by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and to discuss, with her institutional role, without asking anyone, in this committee that declares Turkish, means indirect recognition of associations that the Greek state has never recognised. Who trusts her? Here are the photographs in the Minutes, Mrs Bakoyannis and Mr Baltaji. Crime and fat mistake. People and disrespect to the Greek Parliament, the committee, the institutions and above all - I shall say this directly - in the logic of the national line. In Thrace there are Muslim religious minorities. There are no ethnic minorities or ethnic minorities, let us understand it. And one cannot meet anyone without asking the committee if it has an institutional role as chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u18	Complete, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u19	And I conclude by saying this: I have been telling you, ladies and gentlemen, that the problem of illegal immigration is not just a problem. They're health bombs. I told you. It seems that Athens is in danger, because most of the cases, as the ministers say, are among the illegal immigrants. You want to call them refugees. You want to tell them immigrants. Tell them what you want. I'm not taking your right away. They're illegal immigrants to me. That's the problem. I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u20	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Drizza, don't worry. At least I'll allow you. Let me also tell them, as I want to do on the basis of the Greek language. There's a smuggler. There's a smuggler. There's a illegal immigrant. What can we do now? Can we change everything? To change the Greek language.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u22	Come on, Mr. President. You don't say about the nursing homes!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u23	Let's talk about the nursing homes. Let's say whatever you want. Here we go. Here is the inability of the Greek state and the Greek Government...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u24	Don't change matters, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u25	I conclude by saying this: it is more likely that the coronary vaccine I disagree with will be found rather than the right dimensions for our children's masks. There is no salvation with this government. In conclusion, I would like - and I refer to the occupations - to say on the left: we have broken-up schools, swamped students - and I say it directly - students who do not know how to write 'October'. Here, see banner at a school in Thessaloniki. The word "October" written with nothing, with mi, beta, roll, whatever you want. This shows that our education is getting sick. If you want to help the Greek education, and the government and you, I will tell you directly: do not instigate occupations. Because some people are instigating the occupations. Because support is also motivated many times. They share pamphlets from party youths in the occupations. I've got it in my hands. I mean, the only solution to save ourselves from the gangrene of Greek education is two, three words: Out of the campus parties! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let the students react, do whatever they want. Don't move them. Don't shoot them. The only solution is that. Because otherwise, we'll have a youth of innocence, a youth without knowledge, no essence of history, no perception, but ready neonates from your umbilical cord for the next MPs. They do not like the Greek Solution or agree and will mainly fight them to the end. Outside the schools parties, so that the ganger can finish for decades, that's the end of this story! This is a story that does not give solutions, but creates problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u27	On what issue, Mr. Parliamentary Representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, I understand what you say only speaks of those who disagree. It's just that Mr. Velopoulos, as chief of his party, raised some issues...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u29	It is provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u30	Yes, it is. But, one, to answer some specific...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u31	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Of course, there's an abuse in the speeches of the Chiefs...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u32	Allow me, a little...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u33	We have told the Conference of Presidents that only those who object will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u34	Allow me, Mr President, to...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u35	Please, we won't change the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u36	Allow me, Mr President, to say what I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u37	After you have allowed it, Mr President, to extend the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u38	You didn't let me say what I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u39	No, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u40	Wait a minute. Leave the Rules of Procedure and let me run the debate. We'll hear the position, what thing he wants to talk about, and we'll answer. At this stage, you can only speak of a point of order or of staff, not of substance. Here you go, Mr. Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u41	As regards the procedure, when the President of the Greek Solution opens up such matters, to which we have to answer, for example, he raised the issue of the candidacy...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u42	It is a prerogative of the Presidents to get away from it. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u43	Allow me, please. I cannot express my argument, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u44	It can't be done!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u45	It's with Article 108!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u46	Political positions have been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Velopoulos came to Parliament and said the government was removing the right of a party's president...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u48	Please! The Conference of Presidents has made this clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u49	...be a candidate in three regions. That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u50	We don't know that now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u51	So that's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u52	There's in there!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u53	It's not true. You're wrong, Mr. Velopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u54	We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u55	Excuse me, just a minute. Here, some issues have been raised...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u56	It's not allowed. But, Mr. Colleague, you are creating a precedent. You Parliamentary Representatives set an example. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u57	Actually, right now...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u58	This issue has been re-established and we have resolved it in the Conference of Presidents. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u59	The Conference of Presidents will have to resolve another question: Those who come here should in some way be placed on the substance rather than on other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u60	You're very welcome. The Rules of Procedure will be observed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u62	Here, Mr Loverdos, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u63	Give me a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u64	I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u65	You are right to interpret the Rules of Procedure according to his letter. It's right. But for four years, for the last four years, during the previous period of the Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u66	I know the practice. It was done and I followed it twice, and it was finally decided that the Rules of Procedure should be observed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u67	Let me speak, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u68	On a proposal from Mr Pafili in committee, it was unanimously agreed that the Rules of Procedure should be respected. Article 108 will be observed. It's over. So what do we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u69	But I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u70	After all, when I read at first whether there are any objections, if the House agrees, no one objected.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u71	Let me finish my thoughts. I asked you for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u72	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u73	I have therefore referred to the experience of this four-year period, the previous period of the House. But I am also referring to this period. One or two times the debate has been generalised and the rapporteurs of the parties which have agreed, but the parties that have disagreed, have spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u74	I said that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u75	Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u76	I hear you, but you're talking about the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u77	But listen to me. You will urge us to do what we have done in the past period, namely, Mr President, to express reservations about taking the floor in plenary. This, however, is a lateral tactic. It's not a straight line tactic. Here comes the leader of a party - and he is doing well under the Rules of Procedure, since his party has kept reservations, he can buy - he spoke about other issues and we want to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u78	Is it forbidden?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u79	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u80	So what do you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u81	It's common.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u82	But you can't say that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u83	Can I tell you something, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u84	It is not forbidden by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u85	I didn't say it was forbidden.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u86	Don't interrupt, Mr. President. We have said this on several occasions,...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u87	I would therefore ask you, firstly, to generalise the debate at the level of parliamentary representatives, otherwise it will be reintroduced at the Conference of Presidents, because it is not possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u88	Good. Mr Kegeroglu is also here in the debate which has taken place and, in any case, we can put it back to the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u89	It's my fault again?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u90	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, what I said is true. I'll give it to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u92	Please, Mr. President. You've done it. But are we going back to the point? Mr. Loverdos spoke of the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u93	I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u94	Anyway. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, will you allow me to speak from here because I have my papers and not come to the Chair?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u96	The debate is closed now, ladies and gentlemen. Don't have interactive conversations. The Minister is currently closing the debate. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, Mr. Vice President. Don't get up. Let's show the example.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u97	This is how the House draws out the wrong messages.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Lebanon, please. I'm going to bring it up. Tomorrow we have a Conference of Presidents, and I hope we will do so again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u99	Not tomorrow, we have a Conference of Presidents today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u100	Excuse me, today it's Thursday. There's no other way. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of attending the Plenary Assembly of the Greek Parliament in order to inform you of the vote on two implementing arrangements, which we have been working on Monday in the Standing Committee on Foreign and Defence. At that meeting we had a fruitful debate, during which all the Members of Parliament expressed interesting remarks and questions, which were answered by the Minister. Such applicable procedures shall relate to the reciprocal supply of fuel for both parties on board and on board and shall specify the terms, conditions and procedures for the mutual exchange of fuel for aircraft, ships, vehicles and supply units of the Hellenic Navy and the Hellenic Air Force. They are extremely beneficial for Greece and I will explain with examples why, as they facilitate and simplify to the full the possibility of supplying the instruments of our Navy and Air Force both in the United States and in any other third country. It is therefore clear that the implementing arrangements to be ratified fully strengthen the mutual benefit of the counterparties, while strengthening and simplifying the operational and operational arm of our strategic cooperation with the United States. This cooperation strategy is escaping from the excellent relationship that has been established politically and militaryly in the last period between Greece and the United States. I must stress that, especially during the current governance, this excellent relationship is increasingly evolving into mutual, beneficial, strong, bilateral strategic cooperation with a continuous growth trend which, given its qualitative characteristics and its strong and conscious political will, is increasingly becoming a more and more important geopolitical dimension. I would like to stand now and answer some of the questions that have been raised. First of all, I would like to mention what Mr Papapastasis said, that this agreement is only used for businesses or through the involvement of businesses.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u102	Please, just quiet down. Now the Minister's talking. Questions have been raised. He wants to solve your questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u103	You left an unsolved question, Mr President, and we are talking about it...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u104	You left a historical unfinished issue and the House gives the wrong message.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u105	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u106	Example one. Greece rents an aircraft to carry a patient who is in a very difficult situation in a hospital abroad. This aircraft during its flight, flying over Europe, must be refuelled. If we do not follow the procedures provided for here, it is required when it stops applying. The application should be granted for a period of 15 days. The patient's on the plane. So the possibility that we are given here is a direct response to this area. Secondly, humanitarian aid and its transfer. An aircraft is leaving here and going to Lebanon. That's where it's fueled. Returning, these fuels are paid with other fuels. A big difference. Let us say that the aircraft in Lebanon is refuelled by Lebanon or Israel, Israel has an agreement with the United States, so Israel will pay for these 700 dollars the cubic metre. We, when we give the same fuel to the Americans, will pay for it at $300 because we get it from the ELPEs. So you see the huge benefit for matters that are tangible. The third example. Our freshmen who, throughout the crisis, were in the Eastern Aegean, were forced to whack in places different to be on the ground. There's been the same deal again. There are many other examples of this. The subject of VAT was raised. Under an agreement that has existed for years, all NATO countries when they are deployed with or within another NATO country do not pay VAT. So the United States is part of it too. And Greeks when they're in NATO countries don't pay VAT. Mrs Sakova mentioned a question which I believe was not fully understood the last time we discussed it. Madam President, Mrs Sakova, we are not talking about the air fuel that is being taken by our aircraft and helicopters. We refer to the fuel that the fresheners have in their tanks when on the fryer lands a helicopter. Why is that? Air fuel we produce and we get from the ELPEs. What we do not produce is the same fuel when we have to put it in the fryer. There, for reasons of fuel stress due to the movement of the ship due to the weather, a special component is in place, which strengthens the safety of the fuel so that it does not explode. This requirement for this particular fuel is minimal. It doesn't interest Greece to pay for it. It is about 100 euros per litre the additional price to convert the simple air fuel into something more complex. I answer your question why we do not make it. That's why. We'd rather get from the Americans this little bit we want, because we pay it a lot less and in the end we win. I would remind you of the example given by the excellent commander at the committee meeting when he said that in a year we won EUR 4.5 million. I would like to stand by and express my discomfort with these issues raised by the President of the Hellenic Republic. He spoke seventeen minutes and analyzed all the issues. I do not know if the institution is provided for, you have told me that you have decided that it is foreseen. But here, I'm going to say something moral. I do not think it is moral to speak of both people and ministers who are absent and are not here to support their positions. He opened up issues and even asked me straight away if I know them. Of course I know them. Let me take an example: on the subject of 'TELEMACH' Mr Velopoulos has asked the Minister. The question has been answered officially, a question was asked to the Ministry of National Defence and a very clear answer was given by the Ministry. Other expressions have been used, and I feel obliged as a member of a very proud government to stand on this. He spoke of foreign policy as a step-by-step. It was an expression used in this Parliament, he said that we have given it all, talked about demilitarisation. Who? In those who since September last year, with an incredibly decisive attitude, we have protected Greece from all that has happened. So it cannot be invoked by the Ministry of National Defence - because here is the Minister of National Defence, the State Secretary of National Defence - to be indicted by such expressions. We are very proud of what we are doing, we are negotiating hard at every level for the good of the country. We all love our country. We all love our country. And we all have to go through this with homogeneity. That is what I wanted to say outside the framework and outside my capacity as State Secretary for National Defence. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, too, Minister. The debate on the principle of uniformity, the articles and the whole draft law of the Ministry of National Defence...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, just yet...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u110	He said 'it's not moral'. The word "ethical" catches me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u111	Wait a minute. All right, I haven't had time to finish the finishing, just say the following. The Minister with courtesy and clarity responded to objections concerning not persons, but to positions on the government. In one minute you will tell us what the staff are, Mr President, and if we consider that there is staff, then there is more staff and more is the criticism you have made and the answer you have given for the government's policy. Please, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u112	If I told you, Mr President, that it is not moral what you are doing, I imagine it would be personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u113	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u114	He said 'it's not moral what he did'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u115	Let's hear the staff, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u116	Minister, you're confused. First of all, the answer you sent to me has not come - don't say things that aren't true! - if you sent an answer for "TELEMACH". Whether you're good government or not, it turns out by one thing that you hosted Zaev here, the North-Macedonian, who you've never recognized. Follow the SYRIZA line. Is that moral? The hospitality of Zafe, the North-Macedonna?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u117	Mr. President, excuse me, is that personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, you are going to another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u119	That's it to end the story. The rest of it! Whether it's moral...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u120	I'm sorry, is what he says personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u121	To finish, Mr. Levane!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u122	Mr. Levane, I'm commenting on the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u123	But you must, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u124	What is this, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u125	What's he telling us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u126	I'm intervening, Mr. Levane!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u127	But please, Mr President! You leave him!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u128	Really? You're gonna sneeze us? You're gonna sneeze the party president? What's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u129	Please, Mr Levane, I am taking the floor. Mr President, you are going to another matter. Talk about the staff, about what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u130	All right, let's go to the moral place. He told us I don't have the right to talk about ministers who aren't present.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u131	Wait a minute, Mr. President, please. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, staff shall consist of two points.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u132	She called me immoral, sir! But are you all right? He called me immoral!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u133	But are you all right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u134	I'm very well. Or an insulting expression of the Minister against or alter the contents of what you have said. What are both of them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u135	Well, he said it's not moral what I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u136	What?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u137	Isn't that an insult? That I spoke about other things that the Rules of Procedure allow. I told you before, find out the Rules of Procedure, Minister. I have the right to speak on any matter, Minister. Neither will New Democracy deprive me of it, nor will anyone else. Democracy is over. Which is moral or immoral, greeting Zafe!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u138	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u141	You said something as clarification, we're not talking about personal now. Leave now, please. You guys are studying all the bills, see the Rules of Procedure. Here, Minister, you have the floor on the latter only, if you wish to reply, if not, to declare the debate to be adjourned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u142	I answered the way I answered. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u143	On a point of order, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u144	No provision is made, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u145	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u146	Please! But there is no 'not provided'. It is a personal issue that we cut off from being personal, gave clarification and it is over. He didn't refer to you or the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u147	But I don't want to say about Mr. Velopoulos...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u148	But we can't have this conversation now. He'll ask for the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u149	(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u150	Leave now, Mr. Loverdo, I know what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u151	On the question of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u152	It's okay. I can explain to you that there is no personal problem in answering, nor has it been done against.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u153	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u154	The Minister gave clarification...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u155	She gave it just fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u156	The President has corrected the matter and it's over. A single debate on the principle, articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of National Defence shall be concluded: 1) "Preparation of the Agreement on Acquisition and Mutual Service (Application) between the Ministry of Defence of the United States, represented by the Department of Administrative Care - Energy and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, represented by the Hellenic Air Force, on the mutual supply of fuels". 2) ‘Preparation of the Agreement on Acquisition and Mutual Service (Application) between the Ministry of Defence of the United States, represented by the Department of Administrative Care and Energy and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic represented by the Hellenic Navy on the Mutual Supply of Fuel’. We enter the resolution on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Agreement on Acquisition and Mutual Service (Application) between the Ministry of Defence of the United States, represented by the Department of Defence of the Administrative Services - Energy and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic represented by the Hellenic Air Force on the reciprocal supply of fuel". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u157	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u158	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u159	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Furthermore, the Agreement on Acquisition and Mutual Service (Application) between the Ministry of Defence of the United States, represented by the Department of Defence of the Administrative Career - Energy and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic represented by the Hellenic Republic regarding the mutual supply of fuels’, was accepted by a majority of the articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u160	We are now entering the resolution on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Agreement on Acquisition and Mutual Service (Application) between the Ministry of Defence of the United States, represented by the Department of Defence of the Administrative Services - Energy and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic represented by the Hellenic Navy on Reciprocal Fuel Supply" I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u161	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u162	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u163	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Following the Agreement on Acquisition and Mutual Service (Application) between the Ministry of Defence of the United States, represented by the Department of Defence of the Administrative Career - Energy and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic represented by the Hellenic Hellenic Navy on Reciprocal Fuel Supply’, was accepted by a majority of the articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u165	The House has given the mandate requested. We're interrupting the meeting for 20 minutes. At 11.30 a.m. we will continue the sitting on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing and we are entering the supplementary SPECIFIC SUPPORT PROTECTION Parliament's decisions: debate and vote, in accordance with Rule 76 of the Constitution and Rule 118 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposal by the President of Parliament: "To amend the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, Part II, and Part Parliament". I propose that the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives should take the floor, if they so wish, for five minutes. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u167	The House agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u168	You have forgotten the word 'with tolerance', Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u169	You could give some more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u170	Mr Euripidis Stylianides has the floor for five minutes. You can speak from wherever you want, Mr. Rapporteur, either from your seat or from the Step. Come here, from Stepma better, because to amend the Rules of Procedure, as an institutional law, it is better to be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u171	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider the proposal put forward by the Bureau as a critical and perhaps important step forward, after a period of appalling the political system and the slandering of the representatives of the Greek people. I think it bold, because I believe that it does not hesitate to upgrade Parliament's services, to recognise the constitutional role of the parties, as defined in Article 29 of the Constitution, and to make it easier for the legislators, namely the technocrats of Parliament, the parliamentarians and the parties, to do their job fully. In Articles 1 to 6 of this draft law on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the House, I believe that from the objectiveing of the evaluation of Parliament's officials we are taking a step forward in the face of merit. I differentiate the objective system from the aptitude system. The objective system established by the AACC was a very critical and important step forward, but only objectivity does not mean that it leads us to suitability and thus to effectiveness. In this sense, I believe that strengthening the instrument of interview in the final assessment of the four directors-general is something that makes it easier to make the best choices, because we see the overall personality of the person assessed. A tool, such as an interview that had been slandered in the past, when there were no objective criteria, should now be disintegrated, because how the tool is used positively or negatively is about the quality of what it assesses, not the tool itself. Would you take to your private business just because he gave you a full CV if you didn't see it to form a face-to-face view? I think that is exactly what this change is doing. Also, the fact that this proposal dares in these articles not to burden Parliament's budget, but to facilitate the parties by providing them with the appropriate administrative staff so that they can fully meet their parliamentary obligations, and I think that is a good thing. We must finally stop incriminating the institutions of the parties. The parties under the Constitution are vehicles of democracy. We must, of course, look at democracy within the parties at the same time. Because a quality democracy in the parties presupposes a well-established democracy within the parties. In order for the parties, however, to be able, in parliamentary terms, to do their job legally, they certainly need more support and since this does not affect the budget of the House, I believe it is a positive step. I also consider it positive to Articles 1 to 6 that the service is counted on international organisations for Members of Parliament in order to develop into the internal hierarchy. We must encourage extroversion, we must complement the experience and knowledge of the Members of this House by putting them in international organisations, so that they can return by transferring us and the relevant know-how. I also welcome Article 7 because, as Minister and as Chairman of the Committee on Revision of the Constitution, I have seen the essential role it plays during the legislative work, the legislative procedure, the Scientific Council of Parliament. It therefore makes sense to strengthen it with additional scientific staff and perhaps give it the possibility - because there is a wide range of issues that need special knowledge - to also entrust external research, studies or suggestions from experts when we have to legislate in this regard. I am positively placed on Articles 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 of the Rules of Procedure because important functional and useful problems are solved, as are the operation of the Library, but also issues relating to the safety of workers in Parliament and their health protection. It is something that we need to take care of by showing the example of the good employer. Furthermore, Articles 13 and 14 are positive because they incorporate Directive 849 of 2015, to which Greece must adapt and at the same time respond to some of the calls made some years ago by the Greco report of the Council of Europe. I am standing in the questionable Article 15 now for the Member's letter of vote. Look, the dilemma, in our view, is clear: closed parliament or open vote? We are fully aware of the open vote. In any case, it is something which, by roll-call vote, exists. Of course it must not be established in general terms, but in exceptional situations, but it is a practical solution that combines the content of Article 70(7) of the Constitution and harmonises it. Or vice versa, it harmonises Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure with Article 70(7) of the Constitution. I am sure that the constitutional legislature could predict the areas and intensity of COVID -19 when we made the recent constitutional review, would specifically provide for this process. It is not wrong, therefore, to adopt it and allow the Members of Parliament to vote on a letter in an emergency, so that there is no operational problem in the plenary session. I should like to close, Mr President, by repeating a proposal that I made in the committee to ensure that we have adopted it in both a constitution and a Rules of Procedure, but also in a law that we have all adopted together here. I believe in a more comprehensive and tight planning of each session of legislative power. I consider, as is the case with the European Parliament and the other national parliaments, that the Bureau of Parliament should, from the beginning of the Session, give us a programme, specifying: On the days of the legislative and parliamentary work, so that the ministers will also be committed to the specific days to'reserve' the time of the relevant debate on the draft laws they bring. On the days when the Member is obliged to be in his constituency and to communicate with the society that he has chosen as a representative. On the days that the Member should have for his lifelong learning and for his participation in international organisations, in order to constantly train, develop parliamentary diplomacy and return to home fresh knowledge and information. Days of holidays and holidays. So only, with good planning, can there be a stimulus of executive and legislative power to work fully with Parliament, listing very specific qualitative results that meet the international standards of good legislature. We therefore also support the amendments put forward in order to remedy this proposal by law, and I believe that this debate should be the beginning of the modernisation of Parliament's operation, without any inconsistency, giving an answer that the policy returns, a dissatisfaction with all those who have pushed the difficult times of the economic and health crisis to seek the conclusion of the least incomplete culture, which is democracy and, above all, parliament. So we will only restore the prestige and credibility of the political world, as well as the trust between citizens and politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, too. Mr Constantine Zachariadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, I have said this to the committee today in plenary. This committee is a committee that usually has consent. Unfortunately, however, today we cannot function in this way. That, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is because, with today's majority motion, we have a violent return to the past. The amendments to the system of selection of the Heads of Parliament, today's administration, on the basis of allegedly the amendments made by Law 4674/2020 to the procedure of selecting the Heads of State, are brutally affecting the logic, merit and so-called "excellence", which, from the flag of some pre-electionists here, seems to become a rampant card. Why is the exquisite rag made? Because 40% molecule is given in the interview, 25% in formal qualifications, 35% in the work experience. Should it be on the contrary? Will 40% in the interview give - and can give - a sign of photographic provisions for a new round of virtues and unlikers in Parliament? Why in these proposals in all the articles do you have greater or less divergences from the law, which you supposedly have as a basis? It will be said that 'the House is always doing so'. No, it's not always done. Because the previous administration didn't do it like that. Let me remind you, because we forget, as some people have forgotten, excellence and they seem to want to go to photography, what happened last time. What happened last time? For the first time in Parliament, a system of selection of heads with measurable criteria and rules of merit and transparency was applied, after consulting the administrative hierarchy, in consultation with the employee system. Has there been any consultation at this level, and we have not taken it, or are you either deciding and committing Parliament to the majority in the name of the majority? Parliament's Rules of Procedure usually have to proceed by consensus. The Committee was on its own the day before yesterday. We in the SYRIZA side - and colleagues from KINAL will also say so from the JRC and from Mera25 - had very important objections and differentiations. Why do you go so far on your own and so alone, and why do you do so? In the previous period, the parliament acted in appreciably. There was no post of head of staff, although there were many headless services. The big question for Parliament is whether it should act as an example for the entire public, transparent and worthy of sovereignty, or whether it should be a resurrected area of photographic arrangements for the development of party virtues. And why am I saying that? For the record I would like to remind you that from the eighty-sixteen overall positions of responsibility, four heads of directorates-general, eighty-sixteen address positions and sixty-sixteen head of department posts, they have applied for the previous hundred ninety-seven staff, seventeen for the positions of director-general, for forty-six for the positions of director-general and sixteen for the positions of Heads of Divisions. A total of four hundred and twenty-six applications were submitted, after one was given the opportunity to apply for more than one responsibility. Over four hundred interviews were held for the Directorates-General, eighty for the Directorates-General and three hundred for the Organic Division Level Units. At the end of this procedure, forty positions of responsibility were covered by new heads, thirty already in a position of responsibility were left in the same position, sixteen of those already in a position of responsibility were moved to a new position, while nineteen heads were not selected and were not re-addressed. In this way, in the previous period, the human resources occupying positions as head of Parliament's organic units have been upgraded and renewed, since now many postgraduate officials and doctorates, at 83%, are in positions of responsibility. How long before these procedures? It was 41%. So I ask: was it better that the chiefs were placed without any transparent procedure, or now that a system has been implemented on objective criteria and has motivated many career employees to do postgraduate studies, work more in this direction and fight it? There is, however, a historical precedent here. The Member, Mr Tragakis, whom I respect and honor, for his journey and his contribution to Parliament, what did he say to the committee on 28 July 2016? He said: "I do not accept the moleculosis provided, unless there is a change in it." There was an entire debate in our committee and in committee, on a proposal from the President - and I asked for 25% with 30%, others asked for 20% - which was a generous proposal, I can say, to go to 30% and we agreed 30%. However, in today's proposal, which I see for the interview, there is no 30%, but the text remains. Here, too, there is a radical disagreement. And I really do not want this disagreement to exist in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Then we proposed 35%, just as Mr.4369/2016 predicted, and the question is what has changed and while the law of Mr. Theodorikos, which was passed in Parliament, provides for 34%, and you are going to 40%? So we are against such a logic of party purposes, against the unprecedented process of upgrading and exploiting the human resources of this House. We are across the street because we want transparent and fair crises. And transparent and fair crises will happen again in the future, when with a new composition of the House there will be a similar administration with a similar majority to continue from where we left it in 2018. You are proposing, in fact, to change from three to four years. Should we also put in the Rules of Procedure when the government changes its administration? Is it not quite clear and perfectly understandable why he has been there for three years? The winner of the elections, each time, must not and cannot change the structure in the House. The House must have institutional memory and must also have institutional continuity. Very quickly now I shall refer to what you are putting in Article 5, a huge increase in officials who can move to Parliament's groups, from twenty to thirty two in the New Democracy, from twenty to twenty-six in SYRIZA, from ten to twelve in the Change Movement and so on. I'm sorry, do you want to interrupt the meeting right now and go up to the offices of the parliamentary groups to see if there are thirty-two, twenty-six and twelve offices to sit down? Are we finally going to have a serious debate on the functioning of the political system and the functioning of Parliament, or are we going to have arrangements for someone to disappear from the structure of the House and go to a party or to a political office? I do not think that 2020 should be allowed to go back to practice in the 1990s and 2000s. I think that these things go back to us and I am not the only one who is in the major opposition, they are called them in the hallway and Members of the majority. It's perfectly understandable. Now, in the resolution of the procedure, there are also positive arrangements, which we will obviously support. I have referred to this and to the committee. Of course, and with regard to the addition, Mr President, to Rule 16, we are in favour. I want to make a small point of a few seconds for the voting process. We in the Conference of Presidents have placed ourselves in a concrete way. We understand that, because of this pandemic and because of this or of exceptional health needs, there must be a procedure that some people can vote for from a distance too. This, however, with modern technological means, can replace biological presence with digital presence. There is no need for any other procedure which changes the traditional and institutional way in which Parliament operates. What you are doing at the moment, with the possibility of lettering, in our view, is another procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u174	How can it be?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u175	How can it be, Mr. Loverdo? As we are here and passing our card, going out and saying to Zoom or to any programme that Parliament operates: 'Kostas Zachariadis: in favour', 'Kostas Zachariadis: against'. We do not need to send the letter of vote to the Secretariat, pick them up from there - I say this because I have the experience of the Director of the Parliamentary Group in the previous period - and put them down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u176	What difference does it make?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u177	You will come out, Mr Lebanese, and you will say: 'Lebanese spiral: in favour', 'Lebanese spiral: 'Residents', 'Lebanese spiral: against'. We're three hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u178	When someone's missing on a trip, why can't they just send a letter? Are we gonna change it all?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u179	Why not? We're talking about the pandemic issue. It is otherwise a minister who has been placed in this position by the Prime Minister, makes continuous appointments, meetings, is very pressurized, and there is, in any case, this tradition in Parliament and it is quite different to pass through such a procedure. Of course, for the pandemic phase, I've explained it to you. It's a political position. If you do not find any difference, we will vote for our own proposal - which, I think, is absolutely reasonable - as we do in committees to go out and say for or against.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u180	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u181	Mr. Levane, what can we do? When we vote to show our faces who they are and what they vote for. Parliament is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u182	He's wearing a mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u183	In the digital, Mr President, there is no need for the mask. He'll be isolated in the space, so there's no question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Mr Zachariadis. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with the last one that has been mentioned. I think it is an unsubstantiated confrontation, that is, when the government advertises that in all its dimensions the possibility of digital signature and the Ministry of Digital Policy says that it has achieved the ultimate electronic interconnection - and indeed technology gives us this possibility - to fight if the fax is to go to the Parliamentary Group or directly to the services of this House. I made a specific proposal on modern, certified technological capabilities. One of the modern, certified technological capabilities - which the Ministry of Digital Policy gives us - is the electronic signature. It has no right for the government to legislate by way of derogation. We voted to abolish the fax. The abolition of fax has already been voted on. Wasn't the removal of the fax? Put it on. It was advertised. Mr Pierracakis was here the day before yesterday and said to us: 'I abolished the fax at last!' I would therefore suggest that this particular provision should be more general and with the power of digital signature. The digital signature is our face, Mr Zachariadis, and in the secret ballot you are not saying out loud 'yes' or 'no'. You're sending the ballot with your digital signature on the right site, in my view. We shall now proceed to the Rules of Procedure. I can only point out that I asked, because there were issues of ambiguity and different proposals and seeing the need for further consultation in order to have a composition, a second meeting of the committee, since the majority takes into account and examines the detailed proposals I have tabled in writing. Unfortunately, it was not accepted, something that had happened after New Democracy's proposal in the previous parliamentary term. I don't think that would remove, but you'd add. Achieving consensus and understanding in Parliament, as Mr Stylianides said - of course in particular with regard to the framework, with the Rules of Procedure, with our charter here in Parliament - as for the Constitution, must be our aim. Why - here is there a question mark - the opportunity was not given for composition and consensus? In the public debate and confrontation of the 2019 elections, I would like to remind you that the main issue was the peculiar customer relations that had developed in the previous period, of course, the issues of transparency, deserve and objectivity, but much more excellence. These were put forward by the then Seminary Anti-Policy more than us - it was a fact - because of a difference in the power of means of communication. Because we were talking about the substance, you were talking about communication. And it's a fact that they've had a lot of influence on the world. And it was right that he was affected, because they are issues for which the Greek people have paid. He's paid for the opacity, he's paid for the non-evaluation, he's paid for his clienteleships. When we talk more generally about the past and say 'we are going back to the past', we will say 'the bad past', Mr Zachariadis. Because the past brought S.A., the past brought the “DENMARK”, the past brought the first proclamation to the House with an S.A. in 2010. So you will say'return to the bad past'. You'll see. Because there is a bad and a good past and a bad one and a good one. It's not good for every new good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u186	From 1994 to 2010 in Parliament how did it happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Zachariadis, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u188	It couldn't. But it happened. And what do you want me to say? And what were you voting for in the big reforms? What do you want me to remind you of? What were you voting for in the big reforms? That is not my purpose today of controversy. If you accept that it is only a bad thing in Transmigration, except for the SYRIZA period, I'm sorry, but we totally disagree. And if you want, ask your neighbor. Okay? Come on! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been an opportunity in this House's Rules of Procedure - I think it is still going on because the procedure is under way - I think that we are not coming here with sincere decisions - to reverse the evil spirit which, unfortunately, overturned everything I said before that you have been election-on-the-spot. With the final state, and with the practice that you have followed for poster and with most other issues relating to transparency, objectivity - what should one say: the recent choice of administrations for education, managers? - you proved that unfortunately you didn't mean what you said in the election. And it has been an opportunity today for the House to remain outside this criticism by the citizens of this reality, which is unfortunately being shaped. To reduce the gravity of the criteria for formal qualifications, with the essential qualifications and titles - which I do not accept the criticism of certain majority Members - that is now being given the titles, that is a general devotion and that we must put in a perfect and dash and delete them, because otherwise we need to check the whole system in a different way and see what must be done - and to increase the gravity of the interview in general and without any sense. It could be possible if the interview is structured, if practical - so that anyone who thinks it is unfair to have recourse - and if there is a dimension that you have put forward, start the interview and start the procedure, as Mr Theodorikos proposes for the public with the respective weightings and if he succeeds in coming to the Ministry or the House and says that he has succeeded and therefore we believe that this institutional way with the interview should now be strengthened. Not at all, though. There is no interview procedure so far, except for minimum exceptions, which were fully structured, with minutes, which it has been deemed to have achieved. They all say it's okay to molecule and that with the interview we have the ability to manage the matter. Everyone says, in the good sense, that the interview will capture you who it really is - as if everyone else had been fooled before - but at the same time there is no guarantee that I will not see against the friend, the known, the alpha, the beta, where, in short, the practice in previous years has proved that this is the case. I mean, it didn't change the whole story, because there's always been subjectivity. The increase in the gravity of systems characterised by subjectivity cannot under any circumstances be a rut, as is proposed here. We totally disagree. The Greek Parliament must also comply - so that it does not become an objective again - with what the majority is proposing. From the Home Office, the law is here. It's Mr. Theodorikos' recommendation. It has 33% gravity factor for education, 33% for work and 34% for the interview. It's a balanced proposal. Furthermore, an effort must be made - because it is not enough for me - so that the interview is completely structured, practical, and that there is a possibility of control. The most important thing, however, is the different treatment of the parliament that voted for the law. In a statement I made, I said that "teacher, teaching, and law, you do not prevail, although you voted for it." This teacher is the House. And he says that I am voting for a law that suggests to me the Ministry of the Interior that applies to all the public, but I here am a closed system and I have peculiarities - as if elsewhere they have no peculiarities - and I will make a different assessment. So it says here the table that I will testify that in public the relevant postgraduate title is two hundred molecules and we are fifty. The National School of Public Administration is two hundred and seventy-five to us, and it's going to be two hundred and twenty with a bonus that came in. Additional Master's degree in related 50 in public and in us only thirty. There was a problem with relevance. Of course, it's a real problem what the associated titles are at all times. And instead of finding some criteria to solve who are considered to be a related title, we completely abolished it. The moleculation of non-related securities has been completely abolished. Of course, to refer to Mr Zachariadis too, to see it. In the previous period this problem became apparent as to what that means. For a PhD in industrial relations was found not to be relevant for filling a Directorate-General's post, but it was considered relevant for the same Directorate-General as a PhD entitled "Study of a broad spectrum receiver in low flow". This is a real problem, what is related or not, and it involves subjectivity again. So, instead of clarifying this, the government came and said 'I'm completely abolishing it'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u189	And that has different molecules.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u190	Yes, but this was judged by the committee in its previous term of office. Is it possible for a broad spectrum study to be relevant and work relations to be not? No, it's subjective. Also, see this: a postgraduate degree in custody of parks, gardens and botanical gardens was found to be relevant to the Service of "outside you". I'd say everything should get the bonus, except the base, the rest one lower. If you're in the process of judging, then you're lost to the criteria. There are therefore issues which need to be dealt with. They're real problems. They can't be treated in the way we're going. We therefore have a choice today and the mobilisation of qualifications to be made in accordance with the law recently passed by the House and the transitional phase to be in line with what the House has also voted on and applicable to the entire public. We believe that this will be, even at the last moment, the restoration of an institutional framework which has been well or badly voted on. We did not all agree with all the provisions of Mr Theodorikos' law, to be clear. But it is now a law of the state. If amended, it will be amended for everyone. Where special conditions require it, yes, but here it has not been explained, they do not exist. In some articles, therefore, we will vote 'no' as it is, if they stand, from 1 to 5. In some articles there will be 'yes', such as all the articles I mentioned in the committee, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. In Article 15, rethink my proposal not to put a fax, put up modern technologies and electronic signature, so that it is fully synchronised with developments. I should like to say that in the article with our fellow Members we are voting 'at present' because there has been no debate and we do not need to have a debate on how it should be structured. However, as Secretary of the Parliamentary Group, and there are special partners in all institutions, I do not have the Rules of Procedure. But I'm getting from the President's office. In this general sense, it is a matter that you can manage in each parliamentary group. It would not be wrong to see the support of those who are 'arbeit', work every day here, such as the parliamentary representative, the Secretary, etc. For the proposal you have made for workers, we have no objection, and I would say that, not to be the right until what a former Member of the European Parliament has in cases of emergency, since they are judged, they are not all. I think it is to be, because there may be a greater need, to give this opportunity to the amendment that has been tabled. We disagree with the extension. There is no need to extend the scope of the crisis, i.e. four years instead of three years. That the three years remain, there is no question. It has already been established that, when there is a delay, the previous hierarchy continues. So Parliament's function is not interrupted. So it may come to four years, but if we do four, you realize that it can, in fact, come to five or more. Three years is something that's true throughout the public. There's no reason to change it here. There may be others that I forgot to mention, because I was led away from some, especially, provisions that were worthwhile. Generally speaking, Mr President of the House, I would say that you have to make two - three moves in this House today in the direction of harmonising the existing general public legislation. Where there is a real need to exclude a different procedure - there is also in society outside and not just here - we can see this. In particular, however, it is not substantiated that they should be treated differently than for the entire Greek State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u192	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will be extremely brief. First of all, we would like to say that it applies in full to what the Parliamentary spokesman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has said in the committee on the subject we are discussing. We would just like to point out once again our opposition to strengthening the gravity of the structured interview criterion against the other criteria for selecting heads of Parliament in this regard. In any case, this is a strengthening of subjectivity, no matter how much one sees it, and therefore increases the scope for arbitrariness and judgments of choice in doing so. With these thoughts we are naturally voting against Article 2 as well as several of the other articles. Our position will be seen at the time of the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr. Delis. The reason is the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mrs Maria Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing and voting today on the proposal by the President of Parliament to amend the Rules of Procedure of the House, Part II and Part Parliamentary. It is necessary to emphasise the comment of specific articles in the outlines on which we have discussed, and we have also expressed our objections. I would also like to thank Mr Zachariadis for paying so much attention to the Greek solution. It was the only party he didn't mention. We also objected, Mr Zachariadis. Initially, with regard to the amendments proposed in Articles 1 and 4, although there are positive points such as, for example, pre-services in a position headed by a public authority or the additional formal qualifications required, which are essential from the moment the proposed person has already been tested in a position of management of persons, there is a risk that, on the one hand, persons may be favoured on the basis of either subjective or party criteria, or on the other hand, the subjectivity and opacity of the criteria may be increased and, on the other hand, substantially newer age groups may be excluded. These conclusions lead us to suggest, for example, that the interview receives a higher percentage than before. The interview, which brings together the most opaque and subjective features, should be the main evaluation criterion, while retaining or effectively undermining qualifications, Mr President, I have felt this well in my mind. In fact, we ask ourselves why, if you wish to harmonize with the law of the Theodorikos, a recent law of your Minister, you do not apply to the order of the House the same criteria for selecting heads. In particular, why do you not apply exactly the same molecules and evaluation criteria as the law Theodorikos. Why different measures and weights? Should some party officials be satisfied and so that you do not ask them for qualifications, which they obviously do not have, remove them from the window? It would be frustrating and unfair if that were the case. On Rule 5 again, I will ask you why so many officials should be placed in the offices of the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff. What is the need for so many people? Unless everyone has to be placed somewhere, so there's no complaints. The provision of increased positions is also promoted in Article 7. In particular, the positions of scientific associates in the Scientific Office of the Parliament shall be increased by seven. Why? Evidently, it is done in order to settle "older" on the pretext of developing more scientific fields, which are part of Parliament's Scientific Service. We really don't catch up with you with this state of yours! In Article 13, it is positive to amend the provision giving the Special Office of the Asset Statement Control Committee the power to draw up recommendations on persons exposed at political level, in the event of money laundering from criminal activities. Everything must come to light and transparency must prevail in the institutions and those who deviate must be punished. In Rule 14, this provision shall be imposed after the vote of the Court of Auditors' procedural procedure, during which the programme of audits of the following period shall be submitted to Parliament. Our disagreement in voting for the procedural procedure was that this programme should not include a sample check, but a full audit. But the Rules of Procedure must now be properly amended. It is also stated that the House may, when presenting the annual audit programme of the Court of Auditors by the President of the Court of Justice, propose that priority be given to some of the checks carried out. On what criteria, however, will this be done? On what grounds? We must be very careful. Finally, Article 15 on the occasion of the new krone provides for measures to ensure the proper functioning of the Parliament in the event of a pandemic or an epidemic. It is considered positive, but of course the principle of proportionality and the appropriateness of the measures put forward must be respected, because they must not be in the way of any obstacles to parliamentary work. In the spring and until very recently the New Democracy Government ruled by legislative acts, under the pretext of pandemic. This must not happen again for such a long time. All together we must prevent such situations from happening again and not allow them to be repeated in the future, in particular, in a possible new wave of COVID -19. We as Greek Solution, according to the article, voted. You have also brought Article 16, with which you find us positive, I think it is right. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, my colleague. Mera25 Special Rapporteur, Mr. Fotini Bakadima, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u196	Thank you. I shall speak from here, Mr President, and for the sake of time. I shall begin with Articles 1 to 4, which we shall vote against. Let us note that, as all my colleagues have said before me, it is incorporating Law 4674/20 into Parliament's Rules of Procedure. When this bill had been discussed, we were against, we had voted against. That is why our attitude today could not be different, especially when we have the haircut today - let me use the word - the predicted moleculosis, with an example of moleculosis for the graduates of the National School of Public Administration, who in the Rules of Procedure were originally two hundred molecules. We went to the two hundred twenty molecules, although the law provides for two hundred and seventy - five molecules. As far as the question of interview is concerned, we have from the outset condemned its use, as it introduces, even if it is structured, even if we say that we will put all the insurance, subjective and instant criteria, with the risk of being preferred either for party or for purely subjective criteria. Unfortunately, indeed by a government that publishes excellence as a modus operaandi and a modus vivendi, we are once again seeing the decline and downgrading of typical academic qualifications. And this is a practice that always finds us opposing, whenever we meet it. We now go to Rule 5, in which we vote'residents', an article which amends the maximum number of Members' officials who can be posted at the Bureaus of Parliamentary Groups, commonly at the Offices of the Parliamentary Groups, without any provision for a limit for those who can be placed at the Office of the President, the Secretary-General of the Parliament and the Special Secretary-General of the Parliament. Honestly, it surprises us - not just us - to decide on this increase, especially given the measures taken by the pandemic and given the reduced presence of officials in this House, which makes the lack of space extremely likely. It is possible that these people will be made available to the offices and have no room to sit. I asked the same question in committee. I put it here, too. We would really like to know how many officials are present at Parliamentary Group Offices at the moment and what needs remain uncovered that push us to increase the number. Personally, I can speak about our own group, the Mera25 which has not requested the disposal of any official in this House. Nevertheless, we will certainly find, if we look a little bit for the space, officials who are in other parliamentary groups and remain inactive and unreserved. I come to Article 6 and to the provision for the possibility of concluding a fixed-term contract. We are voting against this article because, as I have said in committee, the framework and the subject of these conventions remains unclear. I come to Rule 7 and increase the positions of colleagues in the Scientific Office of the Parliament. Here too, we will be voting 'at present', as we are not convinced of the need for them to be met. In Article 14, with the possibility of a proposal for priority audits at the Court of Auditors, our reaction and attitude has been recorded when we discussed the relevant draft law. That is why we shall be voting'representations' as in Article 16, as in principle. We shall be voting in favour of all the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u197	Thank you very much, Mrs Bakadima. Mr President, will you speak at the end?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u198	In fact, I'll talk to you at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u199	It is up to the Parliamentary Representatives to speak. As far as I can see, they all express their desire to be placed. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Lebanese, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. I thought we were going backwards. I think the general message of the amendment to the Rules of Procedure is a message of support, as our rapporteur said, of transparency and dignity in Parliament and, of course, of the transfer of this message to society, in full follow-up with the historical speech made by the President of Parliament when he took over - I think - a very good development of the House in these difficult circumstances in these fifteen months. As the President will also speak and will fully cover the issues raised, particularly by Mr Zachariadis, my position will only stand on three points. The first is the issue raised by Mr Zachariadis, mainly, but also by the representative of KINAL on the question of interview. I think that, in this case we are discussing, it is exactly the opposite. In practice, our proposal is to rationalise the system of selection of heads. It follows the proposal Theodorikou, which at some other times had been heard by the Opposition that it was wrong, but now there is a reference point as correct. In particular, it introduces the AACC with two members to the committee so that it strengthens democracy. I don't want to read to you those members and eat the time. But this is an innovative proposal, which is in the very opposite direction to what you have said. The second point concerns members of staff who may be sent to the offices of the parties. In my personal opinion, the most correct view would be that there should be a proportionality based on the percentage and representation in the House. This would give even more officials in the New Democracy, contrary to what Mr Zachariadis has tried to say before. It would've gotten to 40. It would, in our view, be the most democratic and correct. This proposal sort of rationalises the proposal that existed from the previous Directorate of Parliament, which said twenty the first two parties - no matter what percentage each has - ten a third and five smaller ones. In practical terms now, the assistance and support of the parliamentary groups is being increased at this difficult time and with a very rich legislative work in order to strengthen the opportunity for the parliamentary groups to do their work better. As regards the question of the letter vote, as Mr Stylianides rightly and nicely put it, we have in front of us the question of a closed House or an open vote. And that's the key. The second thing our rapporteur quite rightly said is that if, when the Constitution was written, the legislature knew the possibility of this pandemic coming, it would obviously have added it to the point in the letter vote. The thought expressed by SYRIZA I think it's half. Assuming that the whole vote was taken electronically, with the electronic signature proposed by Mr Kegeroglu, it would probably be a point of debate. But to separate and have three kinds of voting opportunities, I think it is wrong. It is added here, so that we can deal with the pandemic age, the editorial vote, to make it easier for us in the process to keep Parliament open and alive. Let us have the overall debate on the digital signature for the future. In any case, I really don't understand what your phobia is. Perhaps the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative explains it to us. Perhaps the thought you're expressing sticks to that expressed by Mr. Trump. I'm surprised, too. However, as I said at the outset, I think it is an amendment to the regulation in the very right direction. It is indeed a pity that not all parties have voted in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr Levane. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Ioannis Ragussis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, I shall begin with the words of Mr Lebanese, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Indeed, it is a pity. The President of the House is aware of the appreciation we have on his face. After all, we were the ones who, with our vote, made him the most honorable and important position for the Hellenic Republic. Indeed, it is a pity that Greece today is not just going one step ahead, but goes back, significantly backwards. In particular, the issues of the choice of heads, namely evaluation - here we are talking about evaluation - have their own history, are recorded in Parliament's institutional memory, and no one can neglect them, nor, of course, with intelligence to counter the truths they indicate. So because there is a long history and because, in fact, no one has sinned on this path, on this great route that has also been taken in the Greek Parliament, which is not a question of governments, but is a matter of parties, the major question really is: do you believe or do you not believe in merit? If you believe in merit, you do not bring such an amendment in 2020 to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and the choice of heads, namely, to assess the human potential of the Greek Parliament. You're not bringing in. If you believe in meritism, not only do you not, as Mr Zachariadis quite rightly said before, all these subtle alchemys, which even transcend these anxiocratic choices made by the new law Theodorikos, but much more you do not propose or lose in other words the opportunity - Mr President, and I address you personally - to open a new path for the sovereignty of Greece. This regulation, from wherever you can catch it, cannot be regarded as having any connection with the meaning and content of this value, this ideal, this much-conscious objective in fact for the Greek people. Is it random? No, it is no accident, because neither the New Democracy Party nor the Prime Minister personally believe in democracy. And we did not expect to see Mr Mitsotakis taking over the Prime Minister's duties to see that. We have seen it when he was Minister for Administrative Reform, which, when there was, for the first time, a completely objective system for selecting heads, namely, for the assessment of the heads of government, came, but not alone, with the complicity of others, to abolish it, circumvent and effectively restore these procedures. What are these procedures, essentially? What message do they send to the executives, hundreds of executives and Parliament and the public? "Communism, guys. Do you want to have fate in the sun tomorrow under the present political and government conditions? One way there is: at the party! No Bachelor's degree, no education, no diligence, no systematic or labour force. Nothing. Grab a barbas in the New Democracy, the MPs, the officials and the officials." What other message can you get a stem? We are now talking about hundreds of thousands of Greek officials. What other message can be obtained when such a moleculosis like this is reintroduced here, which basically says that everything will be judged in the interview and that is why gravity is increasing. This does not, of course, in any way dispense with the same subjective and irresponsible system that I, as Mr Zachariadis has said, has already brought the current government to the law on the choice of heads, and a system of selection of administrations is now being discussed in the committee as well. And there's the same thing. Why? Because the government doesn't believe, the government doesn't believe, the New Democracy does not believe in democracy. It makes it with its choices and actions as one of the great goals to be met in the future by a next government, which if the Greek people decide and whenever they decide will take over the fate of the country. I would just like to say a word about the dilemma, and I will close with a report on the subject of topical and urgent debate. I can't avoid it because I'm just being notified. So I'm going to make a report on the letter vote. There is a constitutional requirement for self-personal presence in the voting process. The schizophrenic vote so far has been the exception to the rule. The rule was, and remains, self-representation. There was an exception that was actually implemented through the process of letter vote. Now, however, here we go to make a rule of exception when we have no excuse for that. Why? Because there is the technological potential, which, as Mr Zachariadis has said, gives you what the Constitution imposes on us and requires us, that is, the personal presence of the Member, even electronically. One last thing we've been alerted about right now. This government policy of authoritarianism and police violence I think has been devastated. There are chemical events outside, there are incidents for an educational community, for students and teachers, who are forced under the fear of the coronary to protect themselves in any way they choose - at everyone's disposal to judge this way - but in fact this is behind all these reactions of the educational community, which we will once again say are fully justified. Why? Because, yes, you went and put them in schools, which instead of reducing the number of students increased by a government decision, because you led them to lessons with twenty thousand fewer teachers - and most of all - because you did not give them the opportunity or have not created conditions of confidence to feel that, yes, their health is being protected. What trust to create a student who reads on Facebook Mr Markoulakis saying “I thank the Prime Minister for not listening to the health care and did not do what the health careers have told him”, as Mr Markoulakis asked him for for a request, for a rousfetti, for a errand he asked him? Are you blamed by the students, who do not actually accept this test of their own health? Obviously, it's not the students' fault. Obviously, it's not the teachers' fault. This government, instead of realising that in conditions of pandemic these occupations are being made as an attempt to protect the health of these people - children and teachers - what is it doing? He responds with police violence, authoritarianism. In Salamis today, they got - he says - the teachers and they took them to the police station to find out. Kavala sent the policemen to take the gun essentially - with the gun, not typically - with the weapon - that is, with the exercise of police violence, the students who took over - why? - because they're afraid of the coroner.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr Ragosi, but I would remind you that we do not currently have a bill, nor even a parliamentary control, which concerns the government, whatever government, I speak in general and always interpret the Rules of Procedure. It is an internal matter of this House, which is related precisely to the amendment of its Rules of Procedure. This is an issue on which I think you have been extended beyond the limits of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, you are right about that. I said it myself. If Mr. Lebanese wants to say something...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u205	But it's the kids outside, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u206	Mr. Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, when we make changes to the Rules of Procedure - such changes as those we have today - the debate is more or less institutional. I have the honour of belonging to a political body which, according to testimony not our own politicians, but other parties, reformed Parliament. Parliament has been reformed by Mr Kaklamanis in the eleven years that he was president, in terms of procedures, in terms of infrastructure, in terms of almost all the functions that one sees today in the field. Because for many years I have been working in the centre before I became a politician, I knew what this Parliament was like and I have experienced how it became under the presidency of Apostle Kaklamani. There are so many things that I can't repeat, I don't get five minutes. At the same time, major institutional reforms were being carried out in the country on the part of our party, the Citizens' Counselor, collective agreements in public, the Penpillar Law in 1994, which was invoked by other colleagues from the Step forward of the House, the prefecture, regional self-government, the local government, the degree of selfgovernment in which there was no - control of the prefecture in the decisions of the mayor, i.e. there was not essentially local selfgovernment in the first degree - and too many other reforms, which I shall mention at some point in my speech in plenary on a draft law. As far as today's issues are concerned, I do not have much to say after Mr Kegeroglou's position, who was very detailed and penetrating in his speech, both in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and here. Of today's issues, then, I choose to be placed on two of them. One point is the letter of vote. I followed this debate in the Conference of Presidents. Most political organizations, if not all, were in line with this choice because of pandemic. I am trying to think about why, in addition to the absolutely cynical reasons for controlling Members' behaviour in a party centre, no digital vote is introduced. I can't understand it. Everyone, if not most, has been certified - that is to say, the certification of our signature - and I think we can use digital technology to take part in the votes that, as has been said, does not overturn the requirement of a personal presence, so that our own work can also be facilitated by the work of our regional colleagues, but also by responding to our duties in the best way possible for as long as it is afflicting us - and it is afflicting us very much - the pandemic. What's the congressman? Is it a child, and should the party center check how it actually expresses its preference on a subject? So he's gonna be wrong, and the party center's gonna fix him? Will the Director or the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group do this? What's the point? I can't understand it. I really cannot understand it, I stress it, and we put it here collectively as a political body, together with other political bodies which have the same viewpoint. I hope that's better. And I'm closing up with this. Mr President, together with the New Democracy, with you and my colleagues here in the Chamber, we have fought for four and a half years in favour of democracy and the fight against communism. During SYRIZA governance we moved together on very many institutional issues. What are these today with the interview? Why? I can't figure out who needs this arrangement! I really can't understand this return to a past that doesn't honor us. You're right, Mr. Stylianides, the interview is absolutely necessary. I have been experienced many times as Minister for this experience, that is, the qualifications of a candidate, and when you see the candidate, you can understand that he cannot become director-general or director, because he comes along, he cannot come on his own, he has special needs. The interview helps, and I agree that it is necessary. However, the interview as a major qualification does not think that it honors us as a Parliament. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In any case, in relation to labour, we are right to monitor the regulations that exist for the general public. Why should we overturn the time and order of qualifications and reduce academic qualifications? We're supposed to ask people to advance, specialize, do their M.D.s and their docs. I have seen this anguish in the new generations of parliament officials increasing their qualifications. Why, Mr President, are you making this change? It takes a more convincing explanation than Mr. Stylianides' general and correct report on the need to see the candidate. Another to see the candidate and another to meet is the major criterion for selecting persons with increased responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u208	Thank you too, Mr. Loverdos. As far as I can see, Mr. Karathanasopoulos is not in the Chamber. So the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr Villardos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u209	Thank you very much, Mr President. I don't have much to say. The rapporteur of the Greek Solution has analysed our positions, said them very well, so no one has much to add. However, we are more generally in favour of the limited state, and we really do not understand why New Democracy as a liberal party, as a liberal party, does exactly the opposite, especially in the very bad economic situation in our country, for which there will of course be some mistakes. One of these mistakes, at least as we understand it, is the very big state, which has led to bankruptcy and will lead it again and again in the future. As far as the question of increased molecularisation of the interview is concerned, we too are completely opposed, and the rapporteur has said so as well. At least it shouldn't be so important for the interview. We understand that it is necessary, obviously we need to see the person who will be recruited, that is the case in the private sector, but not to a large extent. This creates once again what the party client state characterizes, which we know very well is operating over the last forty years, and it is the only thing that the Troika has not even managed to contain, nor even the IMF. So this thing must be given special attention. As far as the letter vote is concerned, we are also opposed. It is right for the Member to vote on his own without the bishop vote. However, we understand the problem. The President of Parliament has told us that electronic voting will take a period of four months if I'm not mistaken. Perhaps this could shorten the time, so that there are no such conflicts between us or even better consider the issue of digital signatures which cannot be delayed. Finally, with regard to the devaluation of the sovereignty we have heard - we have heard too much about this - we think that it should be better taken care of, but we should not be excessive. Excesses never help improve procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, too, Mr. Villardo. With the permission of this House, you will allow me to give the floor for one minute to a historic member of this House who has been involved in the debate on codes too many times, and I imagine that there is no objection for one minute, although the Rules here refer to the process of codes to Mr Tragakis. Mr. Tragakis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u211	Since I have spent several years in this Chamber, but I have been in the House's Committee on the Rules of Procedure for several years now, I would like to say that there has always been a consensus on the subject of the debate on the Rules of Procedure of this House, not exactly unanimity, but there has been a consensual climate. For the first time, there is the phenomenon of discussing Parliament's Rules of Procedure with so many contradictions. And because I see Mr Zachariadis joining the Chamber, I will refer to what Mr Zachariadis said about our position on the interview at that time. First of all, my position over time is that I am in favour of the autonomy of the House, the independence of the House. When other public life actors entered the House, it became bad. For example, for several decades the Treasury tried to enter the House and could not. When he got in, there were too many problems. Now it's the Department of Administrative Reform. Why should we always follow what is in place in public when we have the possibility of autonomy? So on this point we can try, because the Ministry of Administrative Reform and the so-called Vernadakis Act, but also the so-called Theodorikos Act, Law No.4674/20, you saw that it was being continuously improved, continuously changed and new circulars are coming out. Is it possible for the House to follow literally? No, he shouldn't literally follow. In the big question of increasing moleculity in interviewing, I think that what was the case was in the right direction. We then had the following position and I say it because Mr Zachariadis referred to it. We had called for an increase, but we said that the interview should be given more weight, because there are problematic characters, which create problems, they cannot cope with these positions of responsibility and, above all, because, as the President himself analysed us in committee quite correctly, we follow exactly what is provided for by Law 4674. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. As far as the subject is concerned, too, of interviewing the officers and directors remain the same. It just rises by 5% - keep this, you say 40% - as the current is 35%, it becomes 40%. I would therefore like to close with the point raised by the officials in the House. She's not even in a secondment. She's just in the mood. Was the increase considered necessary? It was deemed necessary in the previous House too. We've had a raise again. What does that mean? It means that with the new technologies that exist and the means of communication, which have been gigantic, it makes sense to want people from within Parliament, from the mood, to offer the parties. My request has been very long for too long in terms of the authoritarian vote. We were together with its party at the time of government and now Officerial Responsibility, which we proposed on the issue of childbirth and pregnancy that the possibility of a letter of letter be given, because there was a specific colleague who could not be present at the votes. I have the experience to tell you that in a very important vote, the election of the President of the Republic, a fellow Member, who even came from my constituency, came into contact with the bar, was given the ballot and voted. The man couldn't even raise his hand. So you realize what had happened. My proposal is time-consuming - and the President rightly raised the issue of the epidemic and pandemic - that if a private hospital or a public hospital is being hospitalized a Member of Parliament who, with a certificate of three professors, cannot attend the sitting, can be present by letters of formal vote. That's a fixed position for me. Thank you very much, Mr President, and my fellow Members for their tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u212	And we thank Mr. Tragakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u214	Here, Mr Levane, you would like to add something.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u215	I know that he is outside the debate, I just wanted to give Mr Ragosi an answer. Indeed, hooded riots outside the House - now they have headed down - once again disturbed the capital's life and blackened the disciple's course, which had started peacefully from the Propylaea. Apparently, it's not about the two of them, i.e. the hooded ones with the students. The police, unlike what you said, Mr. Ragossi, moved within the framework of legality, did its duty. The police children were at risk again to protect the whole of our society. I hope that your previous position here in the House, with which you supported the Step that you spoke a moment ago, the occupations, although they are illegal, will not continue today and support the hoodmen outside the House on the streets of Athens. The position of the Government and the Minister of Education is clear. It's open to dialogue with open schools. What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u216	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u217	That is why I said from the outset that matters which do not relate to the Rules of Procedure should not be discussed, but now...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u218	This debate has begun, Mr President, and I too would like...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u219	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u220	Whoever we're in the Chamber, we don't have a picture. When I heard Mr Ragosi, I saw a little of the sites what exactly has happened. I have also seen to the Unknown Soldier what is happening and I feel the need to make certain points. I have already participated in the public debate several times, with colleagues from other parties and have been given the opportunity - to clarify that I am a teacher, I have also served as the Minister for Education - to clarify that every student mobilisation is what it is, good or bad. The parties must be outside. MPs outside schools, etc., are to denounce them and you should see, as President of the House, some kind of reaction. MEP, a member of this delegation at school? You're about to protest, and I'm with them, about the violence against the students. I have an absolute right, and I'm practicing it. Another thing you can't think about is that children, young people, who don't watch the cheques of contagious, state state, are gathering in the squares at night, but that this should not be done any more if you say "I'll send the police to beat them." There are differences which are not thin, but which are necessary to have proper positions and to send out correct messages through the House. I am obviously in favour of mobilisation. Anyone who considers in our democracy that something does not like, does not agree, to the limits of the law and even to the arrangements which Parliament has recently adopted, to exercise its right, as a assembly, to demonstrate and express its views. Therefore, if there has been violence against the students, we denounce it and condemn it. But if the incidents that we see from the sites are about bullies, about masks and with molotovs, we condemn these behaviours.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u221	Mr. Ragus has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u222	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I was anyway asked by Mr Lebanese. First of all, there is no question whether or not there has been violence, police or not against students who have decided, in the way they have decided, to react to the total lack of care - and to make it quite clear - and their total lack of protection against the coronary pandemic by government policies, because this violence has so far been repeated by police forces in too many areas in the country, such as Kavala, Keracini, I told you earlier in Salamis. Today, then, addressing this final protest aimed at getting students hit by police is just another stone on this route.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u223	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u224	I shall conclude, Mr President. This has nothing to do with it, Mr Levane, with any extravagant evidence, what we say if they infiltrated in there as you have said, people with molotovs, 'blacks' which are said in disguised other times, etc. None of this has anything to do with it. And try not to slander the reaction of the disciples. Try to understand it, gentlemen of the New Democracy. It is not currently the country and the Greek society under pandemic, as it was last year or before. It's completely different.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u225	Good. Thank you, Mr Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u226	And one last thing, and I'm closing. Indeed, at least, let me take this into account in the positive view that you are now beginning to ask, because some time ago you considered that the political opposition party is what is either motivated or related to such extremes and anti-democratic and illegitimate actions. That's good again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u227	You did not condemn the violence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u228	We've done this on several occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u229	Mr. Delis has the floor for a minute and we'll be done. After Mr. Delis, the President of Parliament will speak and we will close. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u230	Thank you very much, Mr President. In the light of the debate that has led to student mobility, we would also like to denounce the way in which the government treats these mobilisations, the way in which students claiming self-evident health protection, claim better rooms, more teachers and more cleaners, that is to say, all that ensures the course today is done under safe conditions. So we denounce government authoritarianism. Instead of beating up and giving solutions to these problems that have been in existence for many months, even with all the time on its side, the time that the Greek people gave it to it and with this and with the responsible attitude that it held over the past few months, the government has done absolutely nothing and has now come to move the finger on the students, threaten them and blackmail them. We believe that the government has an absolute responsibility, has the full responsibility to give a solution here and now to the fair demands of the students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, too. Unfortunately, we have violated the Rules of Procedure today, all of which I have allowed this debate. Mr President, here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u232	The House on the average MP is, in many cases, unknown, because the average Member is aware of his legislative and control responsibilities, he has his constituency, he has his obligations vis-à-vis the executive, visits to the Ministries and his presence in the House is more related to the plenary, the Senate and the committees. The House, however, has a very strong activity, much more demanding, much more diverse, far more complex than any other public service. It is related to public works, it is related to international contacts, it is related to diplomacy, it is related to works of art, it is related to health issues, as has been the case lately - but these are also at the forefront - it is related to educational issues, to the dissemination of the principles of parliamentaryism through the Foundation. This is an incredible, extensive'vetalia', which, in order to remain spread creatively, does not suffice the so-called political leadership, but there must also be sufficient service, which all this extensive work, interest, provocative, fertile work, can support it. In November, an assembly of NATO parliamentary representation was to be held in Athens, in the presence of hundreds of parliamentarians from countries - members of NATO and, overall, around eight hundred people. Now, in a month and a half it would have happened. A month ago, in the context of the Greek Presidency of the Council of Europe, there would be meetings of committees of the Council of Europe, which were linked to the Greek Presidency. These were postponed because of the coronary excavation. All these issues, such as the issues that we are living here in the legislative or control powers of the House, or the issues that have to do with overseeing the fast-track construction of the fifty-season MDs at the Hospital of Salvation, the officials of the Parliament and the good or moderate outcome of these issues, are about diligence, vigilance, the imagination, the creativity of these officials. When we discuss with general directors of the Parliament - four - the best presence of Greece in Auschwitz, a very thin, very painful, very interesting, very historic, very political issue, when we discuss with general directors of the Parliament when we have to postpone a conference of eight hundred people from all the countries abroad and whether we had to postpone it and how to handle it online, the skills needed to suggest or decide such a general director are not common. They're not used to it at all. If it wasn't the coroner, it'd be something else. We're always surprised by our lives. These people are not only worthy to be judged by the degree they obtained twenty - thirty years ago, but they deserve to be judged by their route but also by their inspiration, from the time on which they decide something so critical for both Parliament's finances and Parliament's prestige and for the need for the House to seem consistent. These are positions that are very important. Equally important are the positions of directors - I think it is about twenty-eight-five - and immediately below the eighty-eight positions of directors. All this inch of about ten to fifteen people faces this complex variety of issues daily. When the time comes, every three or every four years, which we propose, to judge these people, you must judge them through a process, which has all the strength to understand who makes this complex, demanding, difficult, crucial work better. We all agreed that the interview is an interesting and useful parameter. We disagree on the 'blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue'. We disagree on this issue of the percentage. However, if we look at it a little more objectively, we will understand that nothing changes in relation to the law of the state, Law No.4674/2020, but only one 5% paradox, which goes in relation to what is currently in force in Parliament, while Mr.4674 provides for this percentage in the House today in the interview for the transition, the first phase, 34% or 35% - I do not remember exactly - and then in all the next phases, which is not transitional, it provides for 40%. We decided to take the permanent route of power to the percentage of the interview by the first time, the first time, the first one, one 5% more than is currently the case in Parliament. If there was a matter of a party making use of this increase, who tells you that with 35% one, who wants to serve his party, he wants to serve all these abuses that have been heard, he doesn't do it with 35%? Why is it that he cannot give instructions to the committee, put minimum scores and maximum scores as well as 35%? Who is this committee, which will do the structured interview? The same one who did the previous ones, except that in the post of a publicly appointed official we put a representative of the AACC. In the Committee for the Directors-General the interview will be held by two Vice-Presidents of the Parliament, one of the majority, one of the Minority, the member of the AACC, the Chairman of the Scientific Council, the Secretary-General of the Parliament and two elected representatives of the employees, while the remaining members of the administration will do so by the Secretary-General of the Parliament, the representative of the AACC, the Chief Executive-Economic of the Parliament and two elected representatives of the employees. That'll be five. In other words, I should now take the member of the IASP, the chairman of the Scientific Council, the elected representatives of the workers and say, "Listen to see, put low scores on Papadopoulos and put high on the veil that came and sent me partyly". Why don't I do that and with 35%, I don't understand? And with 35% that happens. That viciousness isn't prevented by 5%. The potential of this phenomena exists both at 35% and 40%. The real problem of interview is not the danger of pheasantness. The danger of viciousness is what is the usual reflex that is created when one hears of an interview. It's the common reflex that those who want to undermine it deliver to the audience and button easily, because there's this reflective. The great problem of interview, which may be frightened, is that interview entails responsibility. It is a great responsibility from the interview to make a decision that Raguss or Lebanon has these elements intact - if the degree, experience and everything is easier to identify, and it is - and this responsibility, perhaps, we are not ready to take it or scare us in advance, and we think that an interview saves and well has this dimension, how much more than a 35% interview goes to 40%, as if with 35% all these fears, mistrust, reservations could not be implemented in a bad way. If there was a lot of rush and pressure to do what you are worried about, we would have this debate months ago. As the General Managers' term of office is over and in three months' time, we could do these months ago, so that we do not delay those who allegedly come and declare political submission to us to settle them. Because they're pushy. It is a pity that all of these people expect to take on the tasks that their party identity and party subjection dictates to take over. But that's not the way it is. It's not like that at all. Things are like I told you before about the needs, priorities and problems of the House, that we want to find the best possible human solution. We have resorted to the law of the state, which many of us are transposing to the parliament. We simply do not respect its first application in relation to the rate of interview by 5%. All its next apps then have 40% in the interview. If, then, it was right to follow him, why is it wrong to follow his permanent application and to disobey his first application? Because we're just taking responsibility. I'm taking responsibility. I take the responsibility of evaluating or calling for certain features that the Members of the House must have and which are not the result of the degree or pre-service, but are also the result of some other elements, which the structured interview can distinguish and can indicate. I also wanted to say that it is strange to say to me that we have to observe - which we have in many cases adhered to - the Theodorikoku law and the rules of sovereignty laid down by Law 4674 which has recently been adopted. Yes, to keep up with the rules of dignity. And the same colleague, who did not vote for this law, from the Minutes of the House, says that the government is wrongly going with this law to make staff progress in public. He had to assign it to the AAP. And as he does not assign it to the AACC, he resorts "in this terrible situation". This dreadful situation that does not vote for it and which now calls it respects minimum standards of merit - the dreadful situation a few months ago - which asks me to apply it! Don't blame ourselves. I don't want you to blame me. I understand your reservations, but I want you to wait to see the application. The lyrics of all this is the application. Not the interview's reputation, but the application. And you will understand that the application will result, which has nothing to do with all these concerns and objections that have been heard. As far as this is concerned, which has been said about non-related qualifications or related qualifications, I would like to say that Mr Kegeroglu, from this step forward, has mentioned some strange specialities that have benefited, first and foremost, from unreasonable positions. Isn't that what you did? Some specialties related to agronomy or greenhouses, etc., favoured posts related to management or something else. So I will tell you that today - not in the Rules of Procedure, but by the decision of the President of the Parliament - for every responsibility, not the relevant one, but a list, I have to say that of similar qualifications. In other words, we have registered, with the signature of the previous President of the Parliament, what are the similar qualifications that they are sticking to incumbent positions of responsibility. No one minds that. This remains intact and is taken into account. And that, if it were my wish to make a leap to help those who allegedly come and declare party submission, it would be the first and easiest to change from the Rules of Procedure, because it is the President's decision. But that doesn't change. That's what's going on. I want you to understand that both the previous assessment and the current one and the one that is now being made in the public sector, based on Law 4674, retained the assessments in the first place because they were considered too generous. And when the evaluation criterion falls back, some other criteria need to be strengthened to be 100%. And we have chosen among the criteria that will be strengthened in this first application, to be the criterion of interview by 5% in relation to what is currently in force in Parliament. Repeat, 5%. And I told you that 40% applies to L.4674 for all subsequent public assessments, except the first one now made. So it's something that's been established. We do that right away. That's the difference. The other criteria do not differ with the law in force and neither do they differ with those currently in force in the House. The issue of the letter of vote has been heard. Look, first we have to come to the conclusion - and I think it is unanimous - that democracy is a civilization for the living, it is not a civility for the other world. It's for this world. So protecting ourselves and protecting ourselves through ourselves and others is a fundamental obligation and then our right. When these unprecedented phenomena were presented and we decided to quantitatively with fewer numbers in the House, we did so and we all decided it together. And when we got a little out of the way, because the evidence was favourable but, unfortunately, it was a temporary one, unfortunately, we did it together again. The dialectic vote may be the 'antikythera mechanism' in terms of technology, but it is something that is provided for in the Rules of Procedure and is something for which - because it was also requested by parties such as SYRIZA and other parties - the Scientific Service of Parliament unanimously, with its opinion on 24 September, expressed the view that it was entirely consistent with constitutional order. And it says: "It is also noted that when the person concerned is cast by roll-call votes, in fact by the self-president!, "the presence of the Members and taking part in it and the other temporary exclusion of participation in plenary sessions of the Parliament of Parliament of 4/5 Members", that is to say, those who are not in the number of six that are currently unacceptable, "the conditions of aggregation which put the health of the people, the MPs and those who accompany them at risk, therefore public health, are at risk. It can reasonably be assumed that if a pandemic had been precedented similar to this coronary, the revised legislature would have regulated in 2001 the functioning of the Parliament and especially the possibility of the participation of all Members in votes so that it can be carried out under the best conditions in a pandemic protected by the great good of public health. In this light, it is clear that the categorisation of the Members' ability to participate during the pandemic in roll-call votes, serves a functional need similar to the cases already governed by Rules 70(7) of the Constitution and 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. It is therefore justified and compatible with the constitutional order to adopt in the Rules of Procedure analogous to the contents of Rule 70A and as regards the case-file investigated by the President of Parliament, so that Members who, for the sake of the great public health, are temporarily excluded from the physical presence of the House, can participate in the roll-call votes and thus contribute to the work carried out in Parliament." So simple, so elementary. As far as the method is concerned, I would like to tell you that we have done a test. And this test showed some possibilities, and it also showed some flaws. And as long as these imperfections are corrected, we can't risk it. Because - as you know - in roll-call votes, various issues are at stake, and many times it is crucial that everyone can vote without exception, which so far we have technologically no guarantee that it can be done. I am not invoking the fact that a number of colleagues, regardless of their age, and regardless of my party, expressed their anxiety about their skill in handling some complicated technological issues and responding to this need, because I am sure they will be trained. The other issue, however, of the failures that we have had, at least at this stage, requires us to limit ourselves to what we are doing now, and to look at how we can correct any failures in technology to replace the 'antikythera mechanism', as I have described in the letter of vote. But it is not the parties that are working on the evil of parliamentism or the undermining of the delegation. The vote has taken place for years now, and no one has raised a question of questioning the authenticity of the letter of vote. The other issues of the proposal that we put to the vote have been heard. I say for a moment that we are strengthening the possibility of the House's Scientific Service being enriched with high-level young scientists. I would remind you that these are scientists who have at least a doctorate. The possibility of the parties being given them, and, of course, officials, is not something that will happen tomorrow suddenly, that the twelve, fifteen will become. It is an opportunity that must be provided to make it easier for parties to operate. The parties are the House. We're a representative system. In other words, it is not the parties that operates by evil within the Parliament. It is part of the House, which is why they are recognised as an institution both in the Constitution and in the Rules of Procedure of the House. We have issues relating to an increase in Parliament's powers and responsibilities, such as the one relating to the Court of Auditors and the one relating to the drawing up of the list of politically exposed persons. We have organizational changes in the Library of the Parliament and in other addresses, mainly related to our keeping our archives better. I have brought a small change today - following the recommendation of the Parliament's Solidarity Account - to change a decision of the House that we had previously made in relation to the possibilities of their members, the officials of the Parliament, to draw some financial aid from their own mutual fund, which they themselves keep with reservations from their own money, which you have been distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u233	These are, in general, the changes that we are proposing, the changes that you have made - in particular, on the issue of the evolution of staff - these serious reservations, but which - I think - are serious reservations about the fact that we are dealing with a rumour here but not with an application. I think that, with the implementation of these crises and these evaluations, we will all see that the House can do even better with this complex, useful, impressive, fertile work for democracy and its place of work, without any drawbacks or injustices or the feeling that all this is done for the sake of smooth and watery purposes. We have a lot of issues to solve and we need the best of the Parliament's human resources to help us with this. One of the reasons why I accepted yesterday in the Committee's debate to change the three-year term of office in four years is not only that I have been offered by fellow committee members, but because I think that this process will begin in a few days after the vote on this proposal, that is to say, the procedure of the crisis from top to division, which lasts for a nine-month period, perhaps a ten-month period, is a procedure which in some way creates a single liquidity within a three-year term. So when, in a three-year term, you have a single, annual liquidity, due to crises over a period of several months, which reaches about the year, it is more appropriate and more efficient and useful for the term of these institutions to be four years in order to have a clear, undisturbed ability to carry out their duties and responsibilities three years, without intervening in this time of crises and uncertainties and insecurity, possibly all of the incidents that are good or bad have an evaluation procedure. I therefore call for the proposal that I tabled to be voted on with the additions I have made. I would also ask that this set of proposals, particularly those relating to the evaluation of staff, not by your predictions but by their implementation, be judged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u235	I'll have a word with each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u236	It's over now, Mr. Kegeroglu. He's been talking lately, and he's been talking. That's right. At this point we came to the end of the debate...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u237	Mr President, unfortunately you are unfortunately leading us not to participate in the vote at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u238	The debate on the proposal by the President of Parliament of the Greeks to amend the Rules of Procedure of Parliament Part II and Part Parliamentary. We are entering the vote on the articles at first...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u239	It is possible that the rapporteurs will not say a word about so much that the President has said and usefully and...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u240	We're observing the Rules of Procedure. I remind you, 118...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u241	Comparing this conversation to the previous one?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u242	I don't understand what you said? Article 118 refers to the procedure for voting the codes. Anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u243	What are you talking about? Do the rapporteurs have a right to say a word, and do you also take this away from us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u244	Mr. Kegeroglu, if you want any clarification or questions you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, do I have to make a fuss about saying that the rapporteurs will be speaking for half a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u246	The Rules of Procedure are something that concerns us all. It's a sacred matter, like all the legislations. It's not a question of contesting it. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u247	Because the Minutes from the previous committee say otherwise. In any case, very important things have been said. The President tried to enjoy the impressions in relation to what was said as a criticism of this amendment to the Rules of Procedure. I want to observe two - three specific things. Indeed, I mentioned the arrhythmias of the former system and the final result of the service council in relation to the relevance crisis. The President said that as far as the specialities that were predetermined by a President's decision are concerned, and everything else we will continue to do. The bad text should not be changed, Mr President, but it should not continue. In this case, a relationship is not corrected, it is simply abrogating the utilisation. We say that it could have been possible, with a substantial debate, to find a way, as well as with the public, with the same criteria, whether or not we have or, in any case, not to enter for the second title at all, to enter only a certain molecule. But that's a matter. The second issue is - and is in general - that there is no reason to have any other modulation of titles in the House than in the public. Nobody! For the interview: Much can be supported by the supporter of the interview, of one form or another, and much can be supported by those who judge it or condemn it. I will make a proposal to you and it will appear from there, because, as you said, the final conclusion, which depends on the human factor and not on the institutions, will confirm or not. I make a proposal to you to write a phrase in it, that 'the interview will be carried out in full.' The Parliament has the best system, all over Greece, for recording, keeping practices, the most reliable. In the course of the interview, therefore, the full minutes of the interview were given. If you accept that, then everyone has a right - it is very critical - if they consider themselves wronged by the interview to do what they want. It will be an improvement proposal. Think about it and two words go in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u248	Is there another rapporteur who wants to speak? Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u249	Mr President, I think that both my party and the objections that have been expressed by the other parties have come to some conclusions. You have focused on your position, above all, in your intention and the ability of the adequate weaknesses that exist in the system to be covered through this process. But, indeed, when we change Parliament's Rules of Procedure, we do not do it on the basis of faces but on the basis of procedures. We do not have to compare the Rules of Procedure of Mr Tassoula's House to Mr Voutsi's previous speaker or to what was the case ten years ago. Here we have to discuss the framework within which Parliament operates and what this is broadcasting to the public. That is why we have tabled these objections, and that is why we insist. So if we are voting against and condemning you today, it is not because we consider you to be a vicious or political fraud. That is not the case, and that is why we have also voted for you as President, and so far we believe that, with small issues, we have a good cooperation in Parliament. Our opposition and our argument stand in the way Parliament should follow, because today we have a good administration of Tasula, tomorrow we may have a good administration of someone else, but after ten years there will be someone who will say 'a, look at what Parliament has legislated in 2020'. Let's go from 40, just like you do now and go from 34 to 40. And what if we go from 45 to 51? He needs a little attention. Of course you will be judged and very strict, and I want you to know that from our side we see them and we will not tolerate a return to the bad past that Mr Kegeroglu said. Of course, Mr Kegeroglu, there have been good things in the past, but we believe that this process of case or good intentions is not an institutional process for the country and for Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, too. At this point, the debate on the proposal made by the President of the Greek Parliament to amend the Rules of Procedure of Part II and Part Parliamentary. We are now entering the vote on the principle, articles and amendments and the whole proposal of the President of Parliament, and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the proposal, sixteen articles, the farewell article and the whole proposal. Make sure that you have voted for the principle, all the articles, the hotel article and the whole. After registering your vote, you may check it or revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you ask the Bureau, so that the officials responsible may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u251	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u252	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u253	Consequently, the proposal by the President of Parliament: 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, Part II, and Part Parliament', was accepted by a majority in principle, the articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u254	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u255	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-01-S1-commons.u256	With the agreement of the House at 14.00 noon the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, October 2, 2020 at 9.00, on the subject of Parliament's work, parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the debate on topical questions; and (b) the debate on the number 16/9/26-2-2020 question of Members of the Movement of Change to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "The party objectives which are served by the multiple speeds for the crises of the head of the "final" state of N.D., according to the additional agenda distributed.
