ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 29-6-20 powers, PXT's minutes of its meetings, of Monday 29 June 2020 (morning) concerning the vote on the entire draft law were ratified: ‘The Single Code of Procedure for the Court of Auditors, a comprehensive legislative framework for pre-contractual audit, amendments to the Court's Code of Law, provisions for the effective administration of justice and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I would like to inform you that in his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that the topical questions to be discussed today are as follows: The second, under number 828/19-6-2020, is a topical question from the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Meikopoulou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Magnesia's toxic air'. The first under No 845/22-6-2020 topical question by MP B1'North Athens Department of New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kourides to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Promoting the use of bicycle as an alternative for urban transport and a means of improving the quality of life of citizens'. The first under No 846/22-6-2020 topical question for the second cycle of the Athens Parliamentary I, Mr. Fotinis Pipilis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Integration of the Canyon of Neda and other treasures of the country's water wealth into a protection regime". The sixth question under number 847/22-6-2020 is a topical question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on "Television Megalopolis". These topical questions will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis. The eighth question under number 831/19-6-2020 of the second Piraeus II cycle, Mr.Fotinis Bakadammas, to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "In the air the program "Eleisina Cultural Capital 2021", will be answered by the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr. Styliani Mendonis. The fifth, under No. 829/19-6-2020, topical question for the second cycle of the Parliamentary I East Attica of Mera25 Mr. Maria Apatzidis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The cancellation of tolls to the unequal nodes of Varympos and St. Stefanos", will be answered by Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr. Konstantinos Ah. Karamanlis. The fourth under number 839-26-2020 topical question by Mr Manolis Hercules Iraklios of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Manolis Synthraki to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The recognition of the single and undivided degree in postgraduate studies (intergrated master)". The seventh under number 842/22-6-2020 topical question by MP I of the Greek Koumunist Party Mr.Giannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Direct resolution of the problems faced by students at the University of Western Attica by conducting the examination." These topical questions will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Digalakis. The second question under number 827/19-6-2020 of the first cycle of the Rethymnon MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The Greek Government does not support the plan of the World Health Organisation (WHO) for universal and equal access to medicines and vaccines against the new krone." The third, under number 832/19-6-2020, is a top-level question by the Member of the Halkidiki Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr.Apostolos Pana to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Insufficientness of EKAB rescuers at the Cassandra Halkidiki Health Center”. These topical questions will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassiliou Kontozamani. The fourth under number 837-26-2020 topical question for the first cycle of MP B3' South Athens Section of the Communist Party of Greece Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "No ninety employees of the "Aghia Sophia" Children's Hospital will be fired, not discussed due to a blockade by the MP. The third, under number 835-26-2020, topical question by the Member of the Hercules Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr.Kingaros Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "To return to single places the functions of the clinical functions of the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PAGNI) dispersed due to a coronary and strengthened by medical personnel", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Member. The fifth under number 825/19-6-2020 topical question by MP B1 'North Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'Removal of artistic courses from the secondary education curriculum', will not be discussed after consultation. We will start the debate with the second under number 827/19-6-2020 on the first cycle of the Rethymnon MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The Greek Government does not support the plan of the World Health Organisation (WHO) for universal and equal access to medicines and vaccines against the new krone". The State Secretary for Health will answer Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Your Honor, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u3	Thank you very much. [[DISCLOSURE]] [[After THE DISCLOSURE]] Minister, pandemic, which is hitting the whole world horizontally and which is a major cross-border threat to public health, seems to have raised new needs, new challenges for countries, for societies, for health systems, but has also brought to the fore the risk of new inequalities. This is disparities in access to new vaccines, medicines or medical devices that may occur in the next few years. The current international framework that regulates copyright protection, patents, companies' commercial practices creates serious side effects and risks to stay back, as the World Health Organisation says, countries, peoples and social groups because of financial difficulties. Against this danger, the World Health Organization and Dr. Tedros have taken initiatives, has even said the WHO Director-General that, the greatest risk is not in itself the virus but the lack of global solidarity at this stage, namely in the process of confiscation to deal with it. They've taken initiatives, then. There is the well-known Kosta Rica resolution at the UN General Assembly, which in fact considers that vaccines and drugs are a global public good and must be guaranteed, with the aegis of the World Health Organisation, access to all countries and all societies in them. To this end, a special - let us say a fund - was set up after negotiations a pool of access, access tool, which precisely allows this perspective. Our country at the beginning of the WTO General Assembly supported the original resolution. But then, after the fierce reaction of the United States, which has opened a war with the World Health Organisation and undermined all such prospects on the global coverage line, it has retreated and unfortunately also retreated many countries of the European Union and in its final form the WTO proposal supports it only four countries of the European Union and Norway five. I think it is a problem that our country is not at this stage with this critical and radical initiative, which changes the balances, correlations and priorities on the global pharmaceutical market and prioritises the needs of societies rather than the needs of the market and business profit. I think that we are waiting for explanations on this, because I think that at this critical moment, our country ought to have a small market country and a small negotiating capacity, to support interventions, initiatives and moves which are also made with the support of personalities, political leaders, major humanitarian organisations, patients' alliances, etc., throughout the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, universal and equal access to health services, medicines, vaccines and any other therapeutic and preventive means are available, is an obligation of the state to the citizen. And this is an unnegotiable principle of our government. At the time of the pandemic it was clear that some things, some decisions go beyond national Member States and decisions are taken at supranational level. The Prime Minister himself, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in recent statements he mentioned the need to distribute the vaccine against the coronary, when it develops, not to work in the name of the profit. It is clear that the best possible solution must be found when and if this vaccine is developed and how it will be available to all citizens in need. The pandemic of the coronary has indeed highlighted new needs and challenges in terms of access to medicines, vaccines and medical devices. More has brought problems to the surface which have to do with the management of threats and about the cross-border threat and management of these crises. In this light, issues not equal, and not at the same time, access to medical care in other Member States were identified. Fortunately, we have faced this pandemic without having to deal with such problems. I will agree with you that the recent pandemic has demonstrated the need to develop and use new tools for medical care and it is necessary to strengthen and develop a common supply of both medical devices and vaccines at European level through a central European process. Unfortunately, while we participated in the joint supply of equipment and consumables during the pandemic period, this attempt was not successful. Also, it is very important that the Valletta initiative, as you mentioned in your question, is very important, and we continue to support and participate in it. Unfortunately, so far, we have not had the results we would have expected. I would like to say this when it comes to your question and the initiative of the World Health Organisation: in fact, we have decided to hold a standby. Of course we are given the possibility of expressing support at a later level in this initiative. There are, in fact, some ambiguity about the implementation of this initiative and nothing has to do with what you have been talking about. But what have we so far done to obtain coronary vaccines when they are ready at European level? First of all, we believe that it is the only way for all Member States to have access to vaccination and to be able to limit the spread of the virus. We are taking part in the European Union's initiative to advance the supply of coronary vaccines. This means that the European Union takes the risk of financing the development of a vaccine and losing its money if that is not good. At the same time, the European Union is able to speed up the development and availability of the vaccine by financing its development. A coordinating committee has already been set up in which all the Member States are involved, and Greece is also involved, and work has already begun and we believe that it is the best solution to the problem that exists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u6	Me too, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u7	Mr Kontozamani, I have in mind the Prime Minister's statements and at a meeting recently with Greek scientists abroad, and the other day I saw a participation in a European forum for this initiative by Coronavirus Global Response, which is financed at the initiative of Von Der Lyen with some 10 billion, in which our country participates at about 3 million. That's right. The question is, why is the World Health Organisation's initiative - which, in my view, is wider than this European initiative and is an initiative that has caused conflicts and conflicts with the United States and with large countries that have strong pharmaceuticals, but also with pharmaceutical companies that are trying to deceive it, because in this conflict, in this divisive section - our country is not on the right side, is not, in other words, on an initiative that supports it by other European countries? Portugal is one of the ones that together we have set up the Valletta Alliance, we have a route of common approach to these issues, it is a follow-up of initiatives that we had taken in the previous period, so that there can be transnational cooperation and joint negotiation of countries with small markets such as our own and to achieve better prices. I think that this dynamic must be strengthened at this time, in order to change the balance and promote the needs of societies, the rights of patients and not the gain of business. I think it is a problem that our country does not support this initiative. What I heard about waiting, really, I don't understand. I think we ought to do this in the next few years. In any case, even the European Commission's initiative is criticised by various groups in the European Parliament, that is, the left-wing Eurogroup is talking about a non-binding European Union strategy today. I think there really is a dominant demand today for equality in accessing these new medicinal products, goods, vaccines, diagnostic tests whenever they occur and most likely we all hope that they will occur in the near future. I think it is now time for global solidarity and European solidarity in a clear and unequivocal manner, in a guaranteed way and not with paralytic balances. That is what I think is crucial. Indeed, since the general idea is not called into question, that is, the right to access and that vaccine and medicines are public goods, I think you really should see it again. It is a policy that I would say health diplomacy, which the government needs to take advantage of. There is the precedent from the period of ours on Valetta's initiative. We have managed with nine countries in the European South and some of the Balkans to take some important steps, and we have given a signal that this is the future for relations between countries and companies and that, in any case, the current framework which produces inequality and creates barriers to access must be slowly challenged at its core.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, you were clear, but I was clear too. The Greek Government is absolutely positive about the design at the outset of the World Health Organization for the universal, of course, and equal access to medicines and vaccines against the new coronary. We are listening to this proposal, we can take the initiative later. At the moment, we are on the right side, we are with the European Union, all the Member States have all united in order to ensure the growth and mood of the population in need of the vaccine against the coronary. We were among the first states to point out and because of the success of the pandemic management that both patent issues and issues of equal access to the population should be considered, and, of course, as a Greek state, we are doing everything possible to ensure, if this vaccine is produced, equal access for all citizens to this new treatment. And for the Valletta initiative, as I have said, we are of course supporting it. I wish this initiative had produced concrete results so far. There's been steps. I hope very soon that we will see concrete results, because surely the negotiating power of more than one state is greater, is stronger than when it is negotiated by one state alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u10	Thank you, too, Minister. We continue with the third under the number 832/19-6-2020 current question of the first cycle of the MP Halkidiki of the Change Movement Mr.Apostolos Pana to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Insufficientness of EKAB rescuers at the Cassandra Halkidiki Health Center". The State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis, will also respond. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u11	Minister, at such a difficult and demanding state-of-the-art state-of-the-art situation due to the spread of the coronary, expectations of the country's health system are necessarily high, especially in areas with geomorphological characteristics such as Halkidiki, with long distances between prefecture and road areas which in many cases are not in good condition, ambulances from the nearest health centre per region are either little or late due to these difficulties. This problem is also noted at the Cassandra Health Centre, a major tourist area for the whole of northern Greece and the Balkans in general. Features I will tell you that the municipality of Kassandra is the second in a local municipality, during the summer months, and reaches seven hundred thousand. So the Cassandra Health Center has only seven rescuers, so that it is not possible to manipulate a single ambulance. We also know from the beginning that one of them will retire. The issue, therefore, arises is too great for the health center, as the lack of rescuers means a failure to move the ambulances and ultimately this can have direct health effects. I have made a reference to it on 3-2-2020 after a letter from the Cultural Association of Kassandrin, which is signed by about a thousand eight hundred inhabitants of Kassandra, who are interested in what will finally be done with the part of the rescuers in an extremely tourist area. In conclusion, Mr Secretary, I would like you to tell us whether you will immediately launch the recruitment of EKAV rescuers, for the Cassandra Health Centre, on the basis of the ministerial decisions that have been made and the notices of the AACC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u12	And I, Mr. Colleague, thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Pana, it is true that the National Health System has completed its pensions, more than thirty-seven years have passed since its establishment and, of course, the shortcomings that are not current and the staff are slowly retired and these pensions, together with the shortcomings and increased health needs of citizens, are indeed creating a pressing situation. We need lasting solutions in terms of both the National Health System and the EMS in order to meet these growing needs. For the time being, our plan concerns both the redesign of services provided by the National Direct Aid Centre and the land health centres, in order to meet the needs of the patient's crossings with permanent staff, the recruitment of ancillary staff and the transfer of personnel where they are necessary. Magic wand we don't have! We've received a situation. If you have to give it to us or at least lend it to us. Halkidiki, in fact, Mr Pana, is a leading tourist destination. For the purposes of health coverage with adequacy of the areas of Halkidiki, and in particular of the Municipality of Kassandra, we have proceeded with concrete actions. In order to serve the Cassandra Halkidiki Health Centre and at the request of the EAW, nine other ancillary staff were recruited and in the next few days the other ancillary staff platform is reopened, so that we can meet more needs of the EAW in ambulance crews. In addition, EKAV Halkidiki has the following operational power: Ten ambulance vehicles, thirty-five ambulance crews attempt in the EKAV Halkidiki sector and assist its work with four employees in the hospitals’ crews. At Halkidiki's, the ambulances operate 24/7. It's ten or eleven ambulances about. The shifts of the ambulances in the Halkidiki sector are carried out in collaboration with the staff of the prefecture health centres, under the coordination of the EAW and the coordination of the ambulances, the strengthening of the Cassandra Health Centre with staff of the ICM of Ambulance Payments for the 24-hour service is the responsibility of the 4th RCF. The health region shall immediately recruit ancillary personnel. Given the increasing operational needs of the EKAB Halkidiki sector during the summer months, it is indeed supported by voluntary movements of staff from other sectors. This decision has already been adopted by the President of the EMCDDA and will be reinforced by eleven employees in the ambulance crew sector. The aid with more rescuers will be increased now that the other ancillary staff platform is opened. This practice is followed for many years, ensuring the growth of the operational capacity of the EKP according to the needs of both Halkidiki and other tourist sectors in which the EKP operates throughout the territory. Also requested and approved by the Ministry of Health with regard to the number of additional ancillary staff in the EAW, including fifty posts for the Thessaloniki EAW and twenty-five posts for the EAW Halkidikis, for which, as I said, the platform opens in the next few days. Finally, the EMCDDA, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, in the context of the wider global planning of its operational activity, promotes the strengthening of the EMCDDA in Halkidiki through the recruitment of not only ancillary staff but also permanent staff, with the aim of operational support for the sector and always in view of the rational management of resources and human resources, with due respect for the proper consumption of government budget money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u14	Me too, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u15	Minister, we are obviously not asking for magic wands, but we are asking for there to be substantial areas where there are genuinely great need and regions which are the image of our country abroad, which will take us a step further. I'll give you a simple example. An ambulance to provide his services all day, needs three shifts and fourteen staff. This means practically that in Cassandra, if the rescuers do not increase, half the shifts will be empty. I mean, there won't be any rescuers on some shifts. I ask you the practical: would you go on vacation in a tourist area, which would not have been on a 24-hour basis a constant rescue of the EKA, in other words would there not be an ambulance? Currently thirty to forty-eight hours are uncovered by an ambulance in Kassandra and think that the distances in Halkidiki are such that it can take ninety minutes to go to an incident. So you understand the gravity of this matter. Today, we have already had an incident where a lady in Siber Halkidiki was rescued with the coordination of both the EMCDDA and the health centre, as well as the rescuers and volunteer groups. Recently I read about a rescuer in Halkidiki, who actually formatted his bike into a mini ambulance, adding defibrillator, oxygen flask, lighthouse and first aid bag. It is worth noting that he himself and other volunteer rescuers faced a hundred and sixty incidents last summer, of which some fifty were serious and involved drowning, heart arrests and other traffic accidents. However, we cannot rely only on volunteering and humanity nor can the practice of recent years continue to apply, where municipality and private individuals have actually paid accommodation so that rescuers can come to the region during the period of their permission and offer their services. So, in your programming, there must be lasting and reliable solutions, especially to this delicate issue of public health and one more to areas that are the image of our country and one more that, with good reason, begins our country's tourist season and will come to many tourists and holidaymakers from foreign areas and will be the source of our own income. So, I would ask you, your planning is more crucial for the region of Kassandra, which over the years has been facing a huge problem and needs to be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u16	Me, too. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Pana, in fact, the health services provided by the country are the image of the country. How rather, in the next days that the tourist season begins, with Greece having done so so far, we should show the world that the state and the health system are ready to deal with any incident. Let me say that in the last year we have taken over the country's governance, we are not trying to manage a situation, but we are trying to change things, in order to have permanent solutions to the health system, which will improve the health services provided and, of course, to create the conditions where every citizen will feel safe in terms of the health services provided to him. The EMCDDA is an important pillar of the National Health System. There is a specific development plan of the National Direct Aid Centre, both as an autonomous agency and in relation to the interconnection of the EMCDDA and the creation of an integrated system of emergency pre-medical care. Of course, we are taking all the necessary steps to ensure that there is sufficient coverage and as much coverage as possible of all needs. As I said to you, in the next few days, the platform of the other ancillary staff is reopening. They have committed positions for both Halkidiki and other regions of Greece. We will be able to have ambulance crews at our disposal, but we will also be able to proceed with the staffing of the National Direct Aid Centre with permanent staff. The call for permanent posts in the EAW is already under way and is being planned for the next few years, so that we have the necessary crew needed by the National Direct Aid Centre. We support the EAW, let me say, not only in human capacity but also in material infrastructure and equipment, with new ambulances, with new services, in order to respond directly to any incident that needs immediate assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u18	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Social Affairs presents its report to the draft Law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Statification: (a) its 23-6-2020 amendment from 6-9-2018 Donation Convention, (b) the 23-620 Individual Donation Contracts for Projects IX and X and (c) of 23-620 Amendment to the Individual Donation Convention for Project VII - The Victim of its 6-9-2018 Donation Convention between the Foundation ‘COMMUNICATIONS STARON S. NIORHOS’ and the Greek Public Administration for the strengthening and upgrading of health infrastructure, ratified by Law 4564/2018 (A 89) and supplementing Law 4693/2000 (A 116).’ Ladies and gentlemen, we will have to make a short break by 7 p.m., because the Minister has another obligation and will be here at that time. In twenty minutes from now the meeting is continuing again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. The sixth question will be discussed under number 847/22-6-2020 in the second half of the Parliament's Vice-President and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: “Television Megalopolis”. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the issue of district heating is very well known. We incorporated it in 2014. He gave it up when SYRIZA came in the first semester. Then the New Democracy had to come back to take care of it. And now this work has been answered, because it cannot go any further. I want to tell you specific things, because I think you will understand them very quickly. You talk about liberation - I will not speak at this time - and that gas will come and the city of Megalopolis will join natural gas for the heating of residents, businesses. There are three elements. There's the point of logic. I think you're a reasonable man. There is an existing structure in Megalopolis. We're stopping her. We increase the cost to consumers and businesses with natural gas by building a new heating unit and not connecting it to unit 5, Minister, which is for the next thirty years to reduce costs. Second, it's the environment. You understand that gas will increase carbon dioxide emissions too much. And let's go to the third, Minister, in the economy. I give you two numbers, based on a study. In the existing infrastructure, i.e. if we go to unit 5 and get the district heating there, we'll be at 45 euros of MWh. If we go with the gas, we go at 90 to 100 euros, MWh and more. Why are you causing this whole process that will be uninvesting? Because some who want to come to Megalopolis to invest in low energy costs, we increase it. And of course, for the inhabitants it will be a very difficult time. We also have a proposal on all of this. And what we suggest you do not do. We propose the creation of high-efficiency cogeneration and cogeneration units, the well-known STHYS. Not only will it solve the problem of heating, but it will also offer cheap energy, which could be used in manufacturing and agri-food sectors. I ask, Minister - and I think you are one of the reasonable people - in these three arguments the government is saying what? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u22	Mr Constantinople, first of all, the government has a comprehensive plan for deprivation, which we can discuss today if you like. In titles just to tell you - because it is a good news for the inhabitants of the lignite regions - that on the basis of the last European Commission's proposals for the Recovery Fund and on the basis of a statement by the Commissioner responsible, Mrs Ferrera, where Greece has waited until the amount of EUR 3.7 billion to EUR 4.4 billion in the lignite regions has been EUR 6.2 billion. We are talking about a very large amount, which we should not just try to absorb but make good use of, because it can change completely, towards the positive image of the lignite regions and of course also the Megalopolis Municipality. Not to underestimate that. We have close contact with the Mayor, Mr. Christogiannopoulos, with the District Chief, Mr. Nika, with the Vice-President, Mr. Lambropoulos, and we recently had a meeting. We've done more. The Undersecretary, Mr. Thomas, down. Obviously, at our last meeting, we also discussed the crucial issue of district heating. The steps were analysed for the development of a natural gas network in Megalopoli, which will cover the whole of the city's buildings. I would stress all the buildings, because this will cover both the current users of district heating, which is 50% of households, and buildings for new consumers who are not currently covered and able to connect to the natural gas network, which also covers more needs in households than in district heating. It offers more services to the user, such as in the kitchen, etc. Today's district heating users, on the basis of what we said at this meeting, will not be charged with the cost of connecting their buildings to the natural gas network, as they had paid when they were connected to the district heating. So, we tell the people you paid for the district heating, we come and we change it to you, we put you in the gas. Therefore, as it is our decision, you will not pay. The connections between new consumers' buildings and the natural gas network will have an equivalent burden to that of their fellow citizens when connected to the district heating. PPC will continue to meet the needs of district heating and heating in Megalopolis during the 2020-2021 heating period, despite the end of the relevant contract at the end of the year. The company will install a boiler that will be operated by combustion of liquefied petroleum gas and gas burning capacity, and will cover the costs of installation and operation of the boiler for the above period. Especially for the issue of the district heating you mention in your question, as you know the operation of district heating depends directly on the operation of PPC's unit 3 in Megalopolis. Based on PPC's programming and timetable, this unit will be withdrawn in 2022. What you are saying is that the connection between the district heating network and Megapolis 5 - which sounds reasonable to someone who is not closely monitored and is not familiar with the techniques and I am familiar with them - is not my studies - it does not ensure the smooth operation of the heating system. "Megalopolis 5" is part of the market in the electricity system with competitive offers and on the basis of its variable costs, so it is not a given function, which is why we have chosen the development solution - as we did in Florina - of the natural gas network in Megalopolis, while at the same time ensuring - as I have explained - that the inhabitants do not get the burden.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u23	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u24	Minister, I'm going straight to the point. All you said is a reality. So what do you think? 'We'll build a new district heating network'. 50% was until today. That's right. That is why we had completed the other 50% in the NSRP, 19 million. This has joined and answered. Secondly, you're right to say that gas will go, but what's the cost? Let's go to the cost, the basic for the consumer or the businessman we want to come to Megalopolis, which you say you have this design and the 6.2 billion. Shall we throw down the 6.2 billion dollars? And if they don't come into business, if there's not a rewarding benefit for the region to be able to come and have an interest in the area? Otherwise it will be a dead area that will share some money and it's over. What I'm telling you, however, is that unit 5 won't work all year long, I've never heard of it. I'm honest. It's the first time it's been in dialogue, and I'm really going to look into it. But if it doesn't work, we'll have other issues, because in Megalopoli there'll only be the fifth unit. I think you're interconnecting with Crete. So the cable that comes in and becomes the interconnection of Crete - Peloponnese, will it get out of the unit? I'm telling you, I'm not an expert, but it seems to me contradictory. I ask, Mr Minister, there is a study. Whoever has a sense would have done this: He would have put on a study if the heating would be able to go with gas for the citizens or stick it next to unit 5. One study and see whether it is of interest or not. I'm talking on the basis of evidence. I am not talking about the environment and all that we have said. I'm telling the evidence. The change in the mode of heating in the existing gas heating infrastructure will increase the cost of MWh from EUR 45 to EUR 90 to EUR 100 and this will exceed EUR 120 when the district heating network is converted into a natural gas supply network. I say, Minister, that these figures have been said, they have been written in studies that I can give you. In this ministry, the political leadership and we all tell the citizens that PPC is leaving, that the post-linguistic era is coming, "we're going to give you money" but will you increase the heating cost by about 220%? How's it going to happen? I, Minister, speak frankly, because I think you're a reasonable man. Ask a study for the fifth unit to stick next to the district heating or natural gas. There's one thing I'm going to tell you. Here will come a private gas provider who will fix all these things. We have to see: Is it also an interest for the government to invest its money in the general set or a private person? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u25	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u26	Mr. Constantinople, I am delighted first of all to acknowledge that I am a reasonable man. Not everyone recognizes it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u27	I recognize it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u28	What I would like to say to you, to be quite clear to every resident of Megalopolis, is that of course life is changing there and I will reach the end of my position to say what we are doing for the change of life as a whole in Megalopolis. In the meantime, because the most urgent issue is heating, we ensure two things. One is that there will be, as is self-evident, continuous and uninterrupted supply of heating to those who had it, but at the same time we create the infrastructure - and that is the second - to cover the whole of Megalopolis and not half of Megalopolis. With the natural gas networks we will have a coverage of the whole of Megalopolis, and in fact we will provide more services to households and businesses than to what half of Megalopolis has had up to now, because the presence of natural gas in households and self-money businesses means more than just tele-heating. The cost of natural gas is cheap, it is by definition cheaper than oil and it is something that many cities are looking for in Greece. There is a TEN programme that goes beyond the thirty cities they want tomorrow morning, if possible, to connect to natural gas. So I wonder why the Megalopolis doesn't want it. The second thing we ensure in the Megalopolitan, which has not been self-evident so far, is that this unit, 'Megalopolis 5', will be able to operate up to the 811MW that it has potential. That was not guaranteed. We're making sure. What I cannot guarantee you, because I am over and above anyone like me who is in the position of the Minister for the Environment and Energy, is that this unit will function continuously, because that is not the Minister's decision. This is decided by the models of European and national legislation, which, based on certain types, put units in and out of operation according to prices. That is why on 8 June I remember it was not working - if you don't know it - no lignite plant in the country, precisely because of the rules that I described to you. So I cannot guarantee - and anyone who guarantees it will be a liar - that this unit will function constantly and continuously in order for it to take gas or an area, because there are other rules. That is why we have chosen this method. We've explained them, I repeat them here. I would like to say to you, beyond EUR 6.2 billion, that our action on liberation has already begun. We have a plan for two GW in western Macedonia, but also for a GW with photovoltaics in Megalopolis. We wish, if possible, that residents become part of this effort, that is not to say not to see PPC's or any private investor's units expand and that they themselves do not participate. We want to talk to you, see how the residents will be involved in all this new business activity. Don't underestimate it. It's very important, it's a stable income for residents. In addition, the Green Fund has already launched its action on degreasing programmes, and its actions include the Megalopolis business park. In particular, the Green Fund will invite the Peloponnese Region to submit a request for funding to update the feasibility and viability study of the business park. At the same time, the lignite resource that was not attributed to SYRIZA is attributed, and this money is important. It's 136 million all over the country. This money can be invested in Megalopolis. Let us not forget one last thing: in addition to all the money that comes from the European Union, from the European Investment Bank, etc., there is also a national support policy that has to do with special tax incentives that will be adopted. This is not a promise, because already in the electricity bill, which will come to Parliament in a few days' time, we have a special clause that in lignite areas there will be special tax incentives to establish companies, plants producing chargers and batteries. This is a first measure. There will be a holistic approach to the government. We have already presented a 12-axle programme since February. I believe that by September we will present the master plan for degreasing, the government's global plan for what - yes, I accept - changes life in Megalopolis and in western Macedonia but changes it to the most positive one. Residents are renegotiated by lignite, which is harmful both to the environment and to public health, and at the same time the region acquires at the same time the characteristics with the active support of the government of a truly European modern region.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Minister. We move to the first under No 845/22-6-2020 top-level question of the first cycle of MP B1'North Athens Sector Mr. Dimitrios Kourides to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Promoting the use of bicycle as an alternative for urban transport and an instrument for improving the quality of life of citizens'. Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis will also be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, dear Mr. Hatzidakis, the subject of my timely question is about the bike. I think we will all agree that the bike is the poor relative of urban movements, that our cities in general are hostile to its use. My question was the Coronovirus epidemic and the new habits that prevailed in the crisis, as we live with measures to dismantle public transport. There is a risk of excessive traffic congestion in towns from the excessive use of IX, which was a great one before the crisis. In many European countries, the Koronian crisis has triggered the strengthening and encouragement and subsidisation of the use of bicycles. It is true that the problem is complex, escaping the Ministry of the Environment. It concerns the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, of course, the Ministry of the Interior, because they are also matters of local government. I am pleased that you have agreed to respond and I am very pleased to await your views on where we are today, where we want to go and how we will go there, on a subject which is composed of all three levels of governance in our country, namely the local with local government, the national with the government and, of course, the European Union, because the European Union grants sustainable urban mobility projects, which I do not know whether they have gone ahead. Somewhere they've moved forward, somewhere they haven't moved forward. How can we make our cities more friendly, more sustainable, sustainable according to best European practices in this matter, starting from very low? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u31	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u32	Thank you, Madam President. I have a lot to say. I'll tell what I've been up to in protology and then we'll go on. The bike's not a fashion, it's an ecological way of moving. Those who have lived abroad, especially in advanced European countries, know this very well. In recent years there has been a very great increase in bicycle roads and support from both states and municipalities across Europe for bicycle travel. What have we started to do, so that I am not used to theoretical analyses on the subject? First of all, last autumn, we started drawing up a national bike strategy which is not abstract, with concrete measures and actions. This text, which we are talking about, takes the turn of the co-legislative ministries, in order to adopt, because there are joint responsibilities in the field of bicycles, and to promote holisticly by the government. The second thing we are doing is that we are now immediately moving towards the completion of two major cycles in Attica with funding from the Green Fund. The first is Ghazi - Kifisia. He's become the other half from Ghazi to the beach. It has a funding of 7 million from the Green Fund and it is going to be auctioned. The second bike is new. It will start from the metro station in Katechaki, go Polytechnic City, University and end up in "Evangelism", using the network that already exists within the Polytechnic Town and the University. It has 10 km long and 3 million euros budget from the Green Fund. The third one that we have promoted - and this is a law recently passed - is temporary pedestrians and bicycles, because of the coronary which you have rightly mentioned, Mr Courides, previously, as well as the conversion of roads into mild traffic. We have also issued technical instructions on the part of the Ministry. I am pleased that several municipalities are already responding and moving towards other European municipalities. Fourthly, it is the National Plan for Electricity with the bill that we are tabling and which has not only actions for electric cars but also for electric scooters and electric bicycles on which the aid is even more important, because it reaches and exceeds 40% of the value of an electric bicycle. The fifth is a broader plan, technical guidance on urban and outdoor public space planning for the benefit of pedestrians. I'm saying that for Mrs. Pipili. It is something we want to go on with. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] And the last thing, and I close with this - and we have the bell of the President - is the preparation of the sustainable urban mobility plans, the SVA, which we will see again with the co-legislative ministries and which are coming to implement in Greece guidelines for European environmental travel and for the benefit of cyclists and pedestrians.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u33	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u34	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, for the information and for the initiatives you are taking. You will, however, agree that a few municipalities as a whole have made progress in drawing up these sustainable urban mobility plans. Very often bikes are designed “on the foot”, they create other kinds of problems. The problem is complex and needs the co-operation of municipalities - a region, when we talk about the two major cities of the country, Athens and Thessaloniki, as it escapes from the boundaries of a simple municipality and of course the national government. Europe gives funding. It is of great interest to support these actions, but I see that, although it is a matter that we have been discussing for decades now, on this issue we have remained far behind. Let me briefly tell you that in other countries, half-and-a-billion-dollar plans have been drawn up. I read the British Government's recent announcements on this issue, half a billion pounds to boost the use of bicycles. It's money that looks inappropriate to us. I would like to encourage you, therefore, and encourage you to move on in this direction even more forcefully so that we do not just discuss the issue on a plan. And I would urge the present Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Kostas Karamanlis, to whom also belongs, as well as to the Ministry of the Interior, on the question as local government is very involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u35	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u36	In Greece there is a small one, but there is a tradition of bicycle roads, for example in Carditsa, which was recently awarded in a European competition for cycling roads and in Rethymnon, my place of origin, which was awarded in the great cities of Europe, recognising the size of the city's spirituality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u37	Minister, you forgot the Trikala.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u38	Madam President, I apologise, you are right. Your presence here had to remind me. And Trikala is among these cities, but I was drawn by the ostrich for Rethymnon. The crisis took things back to Greece in this respect. I believe that the direction of things in Europe and the normalisation of the general economic and social life will lead us to take the steps we need. We symbolically and essentially start from these two major bike roads in Athens. Of course, we must not forget other cities and especially Thessaloniki. I am pleased that the Mayor of Thessaloniki embraced this initiative on the temporary bicycle routes and will proceed immediately, as I understand it, to the development of such bicycle routes in Thessaloniki. I am sure that the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Kostas Karamanlis, with whom we are working on a number of issues, is also very positive. We will work with them and they will cooperate with us both on the issues of cycling roads and on the issues of the SBAKs, the Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans, as we work with them, as they work with us on the issue of electromobility. It is green transport, which is also at the heart of the new proposals by the European Commission and the Recovery Fund. The country will also have resources to implement such policies, and that is why your question, Mr Cairides, is very topical and certainly in line with the demands of young people, but also with the people who see things going on in Europe and internationally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u39	Thank you, Minister. We move to the first under No 846/22-6-2020 of the second question of the Athens Parliamentary I of the New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Pipilis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Integration of the Neda Gorge and other treasures of the country's water wealth into a protection regime". The Minister for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr Constantine Hatzidakis. Mrs. Pipili, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, there will be a lot of wonders about the work of an Athenia, the birth of a nourishment, and indeed the question of protecting the Gorge of Neda, which is just the protagonist or other treasures of the country's aquatic wealth, such as the Polylimni of Messinia, the Always Rain in Karpenisi, Livaditis in Thrace and others. The whole world cries, reading in the international and the Greek press, because they melt, for example, ice in Antarctica, destroys Everest from the mountain hordes and rarely the Greek press, especially the local communities and authorities, to protect the trial of natural environment monuments such as, for example, Neda is the top - to me - a canyon that is an ecological and, at the same time, mythological and historical from the time of Pausanias, a natural limit of Elias - Messinia. In fact, on the side of Elijah, eternal waterfalls occur. The largest of them who are fifty meters high, forms a wide shadow dome, where, of course, the conditions of visitability - during the months especially July and August - are hideous and only in the picture, because we are not talking about tourists - visitors, we are talking about barbarians, who have no idea of visiting an environmental monument. In previous years Neda’s gorge was completely abandoned. Already now the Municipality of Sakharos, one of the two "owners", the other is the Municipality of Triphyria in Messinia, is beginning to care. Will the Ministry proceed to measures to protect the Neda Gorge, with the obligation to introduce an operating regulation on visitability such as Samaria Gorge? Will the Ministry generally proceed with the same protection as other areas that make up the country's water wealth that we need to protect it, such as museums and archaeological monuments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u41	Thank you too, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u42	Mrs Pipili is right in her findings about Neda and therefore the water system Neda has been incorporated as a recreational area in the register of protected areas, which provides for the management of river basins in the west Peloponnese aqueduct. This also concerns both the initial management plan adopted in 2013 and the first revision of 2017. Of course, the inclusion of Neda in the Register of Protected Areas of the Aqueduct as a place of recreational water does not imply the protection you propose. The water catchment area of Pasios-Nedon-Nedon-Nedas, which includes the location of the canyon, does not fall within the protection area of biodiversity or a national park. Therefore, according to the environmental law that we passed in May, specific sites can be classified as protected landscapes and natural formations by ministerial decision, after the opinion of the region concerned. The same decision makes it possible to impose conditions and restrictions on the activities carried out in those areas, such as veracity. In order to initiate such a procedure, it should be forwarded to the relevant department of the Ministry of the Environment, which will document the ecological or other physical value of the protected object, determine conservation priorities and propose terms and restrictions. In the context of parliamentary control and information by potential stakeholders, the Wetland Management Body of the University - Strongness and Cyprus notified us, in other words, after your question, that although this water catchment area does not fall within the scope of its competence, it is positively approaching the integration of the Neda Canyon into a protection regime. The positive view, even at an early stage, of the specific body operating in the wider region is important and shows a direction. A positive view of the issue was taken by the Peloponnese Region, which, together with the Region of Western Greece, can cooperate and submit to the relevant departments of the Ministry of the Environment the special report that will document the need to do what you say, Mrs. Pipilis. Both regions must cooperate, because Neda is right to Elijah and Messinia. One county belongs to western Greece and the other to the Peloponnese, that is, both to the Peloponnese belong, but in any case, you understand what I mean, administratively. For our part, at the Ministry, we are ready to work with the regions and all involved, so that your question will also be an opportunity to have an upgrade of the protection of Neda. I didn't answer you for the second one, but I'll answer the second one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u43	Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u44	First of all, I am excited that this mobilisation exists, not only from the Ministry of the Environment - I had no doubt - but also from the regions. But you know what? I am very strict on some issues because I also have a huge experience in the Municipality of Athens, where at some point it is the state and government that determine the limits and rules. The regions all these years have undoubtedly had money and dynamics, right? It is not the old municipalities and communities and it surprises me that all these years throughout Greece, it has not been given sufficient importance to recognise themselves as places of protection and to impose, then, the programs that determine how many visitors, in any case, at any time or day a waterfall can be accepted. Minister, I've printed a photo so people can figure it out. This is the great waterfall of Neda and has a small lake. Madam President, in this small pond of July and August you can come in and see through walking crabs, fishes, all the biodiversity that the region has and a hundred people! A hundred people in it! And I say, "Well, so many years I've been yelling and saying, is that possible? Put a limit on it! First of all, the sign "It is forbidden in this little natural treasure to enter and bathe". The canyon is of mythological and historical importance to others. Pausanias describes this perfectly in his "Arcadian". We're talking about an ecological monument in which they never paid any attention. That is why I am particularly pleased by what the Minister has said to me, but I am glad that I should also add my own proposals which are: forbidden swimming in the lake of the great water and a ban on expressly free camping that lights and fires in this wonderful landscape, which I would stress is in the heart of the totalitarian catastrophe since 2007 of forest wealth in the Figalia region. Also, Minister, it is not possible to make safe roads which go right into the canyon and are such a wide range that they also receive visitability coaches. So I think your position is very positive too. But you must be very strict. I am also glad that the Municipality of Sakharos and the local authorities in the region of Figalia, which belong to both the waterfalls and the whole story from the age of mythology and on the other hand, are ready to cooperate, because they have understood that, to deliver an environment in the future, it is not enough to cry just because the ice is melting in Antarctica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u45	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u46	Mrs Pipilis, as you refer to a particular area, as you are talking about throughout Greece, is the ones who believe, on the one hand, that the environment must be protected and more than is being protected today. On the other hand, it is those who consider that the restrictions that exist so far for turtles, for any protected species, are disastrous for their properties. And in the middle we are the ones trying to implement the law with good European practices in mind. That's what we're gonna do here. This is how we will proceed, on the basis of European law, national law, the case-law of the Council of State and the principles of modern states. I told you that we have environmental sensitivity, which we are trying to show in practice. I didn't answer you for the Messinia Polylim, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u47	That's where something's going on, I found out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u48	As I did not forget it - I have my notes here - I would like to say that the Peloponnese Region informed us that on 16 June a programme contract was signed between the district and the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens for research work entitled 'Research to reduce the environmental risks of Polylimni Messinis'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u49	Messinia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u50	Messinis writes here, but I accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u51	It's a long way from Messini. I know well...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u52	Okay. The aim of the research programme is to provide a complete clarification of the geological, geomorphological and general geo-environmental conditions of the wider area of interest, so that appropriate interventions can then be chosen to reduce the potential risks to the site and its visitors. So on the subject of Polylimni Messinia there is a positive development and I am glad that today I have two positive news to give you first. You must not rest assured, however, because all these issues must be monitored very closely. It is relatively new for Greece and we must all show our sensitivity, with our first ones, to show it every day in practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u53	Thank you, Minister. And we're going to the last question to the Minister of the Environment. It is the second question under number 828/19-6-2020 of the second question by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Magnesia's toxic air'. Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, on June 15th, the first results of the 12-month investigation were published by the Special Research Group of the University of Thessaly, "Green Your Air" with scientific staff, the Assistant Professor of the Department of Engineering, University of Thessaly, George Saharides, as well as Professor Constantine Gourgulani, Director of the University of Thessaly, University of Thessaly. The study concerned the recording of the problem of air pollution in the urban complex of Volos, namely the existence in the atmosphere of the area of the population harmful to health of PM2,5 microparticles and whether these exceed the permitted limits in accordance with international and Greek legislation. According to the results of this study, the mean concentration of suspended PM2,5 microparticles for the 12-month period from 1 to 3-2019 to 29-2-2020 was 30,03 mg/m3, with an annual limit based on the World Health Organisation of 10 mg/m3 and an annual limit value based on Greek legislation of 25 mg/m3. This practically translates into an excess of 200.3% in terms of the limits established by the World Health Organisation and 20.12% in terms of the limits established by Greek legislation, on the basis of a European directive. Mr. Hatzidakis, you know very well that Volos is an environmentally burdened city. The problem of air pollution in Volos is both acidic and multifactorial. Taking into account that this study only concerns suspended particles of PM2,5 and not other atmospheric pollutants that may exist, the widespread concern of the citizens and of the city's scientific bodies about the effects on their health is fully justified and calls for immediate action. Two very simple and practical questions arise, Minister: First of all, what results do the Ministry of the Environment and the region have so far had from exercising competence in monitoring the air quality of Volos and how do these results relate to this study? And, secondly, how do you intend to intervene and what is the exact timeframe for pooling stations for measuring and recording the city's gases and what measures do you intend to take to limit air pollution in the city of Volos?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u56	Mr Meikopoulou, thank you for the question, because it gives us the opportunity to clarify a number of parameters in relation to an issue that is causing discussion and concern in the city of Volos, to the extent that this can be finalised in the context of this question. In addition to the research team of the University of Thessaly, which measures air pollution in the town complex of Volos, my answer must also be based on the information we had from the Ministry of the Environment, the Quality Department of Atmosphere of the Ministry of Climate Change. Because it is technical enough, I will try to make it as simple as possible, so that those who are following us understand what this is all about. Monitoring the quality of the air environment in our country is carried out by a national air pollution monitoring network with 24-hour constants. The national network stations monitor pollutants provided for in the relevant legislation for the assessment and assessment of air quality, namely Directive 2004/107, Directive 2008/50 and Directive 2015/1480. These Directives have established limit values and target values for normal atmospheric pollutants to protect human health. The national network, which I am talking about, is a measuring station in Volos, which has installed the Ministry since 2000 and whose responsibility the Region of Thessaly has been responsible for. The Ministry has as its responsibility the supervision of this station and through a project funded by the NSRF renewed, with your own government, in 2016 the plant with a new suspended particle analyst and the monitoring extended to other suspended particles that were not previously mitigated. I can say more, but because the time passes, I want to get to the measurement results, as we have been from this ministry station. For 2019, Mr Mikopoulos, the station recorded, on the basis of what the address tells me, an annual average concentration for suspended PM10 particles equal to twenty-nine micrograms per cubic metre and therefore said that the data were not exceeded the annual limit value that is forty micrograms compared to the twenty-nine observed. Also, twenty-six days were observed with an average 24-hour PM10 concentration of more than fifty micrograms per cubic metre, of which 10 were assigned to a transfer of dust from remote areas (Sakhara) in the competent bodies. Even without deduction of the impact of dust, a procedure provided for in the relevant legislation, there was no exceedment of the daily limit value of thirty-five days per year. With regard to suspended PM25, the station recorded an annual concentration of 16 mg/cybic and therefore, again, the annual limit value of 25 mg/cybic was not exceeded. I've already been talking for four minutes, but I have other facts to tell you, because I know this is a matter of concern. I should like to tell you about the initiatives we have taken, to see how we are going to deal with this issue in substance and in relation to the concerns of the world. I'll tell you in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u57	Thank you, Minister. Mr Meikopoulou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President, and I ask you in advance for a tolerance. Minister, I have listened to you very carefully and since, on the basis of the information provided by the Directorate responsible for the Environment, you are convinced of the cleanness of the atmosphere in the town complex of Volos, I am here officially calling you - I will host you at my house - to sit seven days, one week in Volos and to answer the citizens responsiblely from where and why it smells so much plastic. How can there be a dust finger on every citizen's car? How can there be such increased cases of cardiovascular disease? How can there be such increased cases of cancer? And that's not what I'm telling you, Mr. Hatzidakis, with opposition, nor with a wooden logic. Today, I would like to give you a clue. The Panhellenic Cancer Association has provided information to the President of the Local Cancer Association, Ms. Sophia Ioannou, where it includes Volos among the most cancer cases in Greece. And they connect these cases to the phenomenon of air pollution in the city. These data come to be linked to an older epidemiological study performed by the hospital, Thessaly Region and the university, where they also found the same thing, that there are increased cases of cancer and connect it to air pollution. You have the results of this study in your hands. And don't tell me, Mr. Hatzidakis, you don't know the oxymoil that's happening in this case. The one single meter that exists and operates under regional supervision, you know very well - and your Ministry's Directorate responsible has answered me in writing - that beyond the PM2,5 micro particles it cannot record at least six more significant pollutants. And you know very well that, for example, with regard to dioxins and furans, which are secreted by the combustion of alternative fuels used by the LAGV for saying, the RDF or the SRF plant that Volos wants to make, so far the whole scientific community of the city has found that these substances produced by the use of these fuels are dangerous to public health. This meter doesn't record these, Mr. Hatzidakis. So I am not coming here today to ask you an opposition question. I come to pass on to you anxieties of the city, aggregating the scientific bodies, who so far have identified the issue of secondary alternative fuels, but also link them to the increase in cardiovascular diseases and cancers in the Volos region. Mr Hatzidakis, you cannot ignore this. I propose to you this: Since there are good reasons for public health, since I believe that you do not want people to die prematurely in Volos, should not the district, the Ministry, the municipality lift the decisions that have so far been made regarding the secondary alternatives of RDF to 'AGET', but also the creation of a SRF plant in Volos Municipality? Is it not enough that the atmosphere is already burdened because of the use of IX in the winter woods and woods, should we be burdening the health of Voliotis, not seeing that secondary fuels are causing serious diseases on the basis of studies and harming public health in general? I think, Mr Hatzidakis, that if you really want to convince the world that you have an environmental consciousness, you need to come to Volos to make a decision to remove the 2014 GDP, which gives the cement industries the right to burn RDF, to stop the construction of a SRF plant in Volos and to sit together with the scientific community to find a more environmentally friendly solution. There's also natural gas. And as to what I'm saying to you, it's not just the society that's afraid of and the scientific institutions. See the last decision of the Regional Council contradictory. He gave a favourable opinion on the creation of factories at Volos, but not on processing techniques SRF. What does that mean? That the state itself is not convinced that these fuels are environmentally friendly. I think that the time has come because of the particular topography of the region to make drastic decisions, so that the atmosphere at Volos cleans and does not continue this thing, whenever you talk about Volos to hear that "children over there, you have cancer all the time, it is a burden on the atmosphere, it smells, there is dust on cars". If you think I'm lying, come sit on Volos for seven days and see them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u59	And we, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Micopulus, I didn't tell you you were lying. I have no intention of doing this, nor am I more Boliotis than you are. You live in this area. I just have to rely on some evidence, and I'm counting on the evidence of the ministry and cash. I told you, the meter I'm talking about was upgraded to SYRIZA. I shall therefore refer to these measurements in some additional moves that we are making and I shall end up with RDF and SRF. First of all, in terms of more recent regulations, the air quality section of the Ministry of the Environment, covering a Union obligation, provides the website of the European Environment Agency with measurement data for national networks, including the Volos station. Every hour we give information to the European Union. For example, for days 22, 23 and 24 June, the suspended PM10s registered an average of 13 mg/cybic on the first day, 13 mg/cybic on the second day and 16 mg/cybic on the third day I mentioned to you. In the same days, A25 suspended particles, an average of 8 mg/cybic, 7 mg/cybic and 7 mg/cybic respectively. So for this time the limit value is not exceeded, based on the legislation and the meter. As I mentioned the prices of last week, where we had a rise in temperature, the analytical measurements from the station are available for all interested parties on the Ministry's website and on the Thessaly Region. I understand that even though I'm talking about the meter, a lot of people might not be convinced. We have contacted the region, and we have said that the Region of Thessaly, under the legislation, has responsibility for air monitoring. She with further research and sampling, agreed and proceeded at the beginning of the year to a second air pollution measurement station in the city of Volos, and has launched a programme through the NRV to finance two new, integrated air pollution monitoring stations in Volos by submitting tenders to end on 30 June. Furthermore, at the recommendation of the Air Quality Section, the Green Fund has been authorised to finance EUR 150,000 to acquire another air pollution monitoring station that will also include pollutant gas analysers. That is, five stations will be installed at Volos now, very soon, so that any doubt is removed. And of course, Mr Meikopoulou, if there is a problem, we will not close our eyes to it. We have no reason to do this, nor politically, of course - who wants to have a society against it - but neither conscientiously. Obviously, we are interested in the quality of life, I think the same as you. We'll see it and we'll answer it accordingly, but so far we have Mr. Gouliani's team, I don't know the man, I suspect him, I don't have any issues with him, which says what you're saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u61	Is that a lie?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u62	I didn't say that, Mr. Meikopoulou. And we have the official service of the Ministry and the meter that gives every hour information to the European Union that says other things. Come in, please. That is why we have ordered the above meters which will soon be installed in order to draw definitive conclusions. However, I would also like to make a reference to the issue of secondary fuels with energy utilization of the SRF and the RDF. Is that our policy? It's European policy. Do I say so? That is what the European Commissioner for the Environment says. I read his reply to Mr Hood two years ago. It's European policy. Is it just European policy and just our position? It's yours, Mr. Micopulus. It's SYRIZA's position. It's yours. It's in the five-year plan for waste management. SRF and RDF are in there! Isn't that enough for you? See how much more inside you are and how much more SYRIZA's position is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u63	...invitation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u64	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u65	Four days before the elections on 3 July last year, in other words, last year, Mr Famelos signed with the cement industry as the then Deputy Minister for the Environment, a voluntary cooperation agreement for the use of these fuels. So find Mr. Famelos, please consult each other at SYRIZA, whether or not you supported them, whether Mr. Famelos was wrong or not, if Mr. Tsipras and the Ministry of the Environment who incorporated them into the official planning of the country was wrong. You also decide whether the whole of the European Union is wrong to accept this technology and then we come to discuss this issue as well. I say again: that is why I am quite clear and quite clear and I am speaking with evidence. On the other issue, more generally, of the air pollution that is conflicting, I told you that we will set up more stations to draw our conclusions and to operate for the benefit of the environment, obviously, but also for the citizens of Volos and Magnesia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u66	Thank you, too, Minister. The fifth question will be discussed under number 829/19-6-2020 in the context of the second-round question of the Eastern Attica of Mera25 Mr. Maria Apatzidis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The cancellation of tolls to the unequal nodes of Barumbas and St. Stephanos". The question will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Karamanlis. My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, a very important issue has arisen. The tolls to be installed in Varube and Agios Stephanos, in the unequal nodes, will make the lives of the inhabitants very difficult in many municipalities, such as the Acharnes, Dionysus, Oropo, Kifisia and many others. They will make people's lives difficult both at the economic level and at the traffic, but there will also be environmental consequences. This is an open motorway, which serves the daily needs of residents, residential and professional. The tolls in Varube and Agios Stephano will first of all be a financial disaster for the inhabitants. Residents use this piece to go to work in their various jobs to get back home. It's not a place to get tolled. Moreover, due to to tolls the entire movement will be channelled into the urban fabric. Do you understand what that means? To put all the movement into the cities where people live, where they have their shops, will result in the destruction of the entire normal life of the inhabitants. Finally, the impact will also be negative for the environment, due to the movement that will be channelled into the urban centres. Do you realize how much this will increase pollutant emissions and noise pollution? So I ask you, what you intend to do to cancel the tolls at the unequal nodes of Barumbas and St. Stephen. Do you intend to amend Law 3555/2007 by which the concession has been ratified? Only this would be a lasting solution for us at Mera25, so that people can be sure that the placement of all kinds of tolls will be definitively prevented and that they can continue their normal life without concern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u68	Me too, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u69	Dear colleague, thank you for the question. But I don't understand why it's timely. And I'll explain. The amendments to the environmental conditions we are making relate to the redesign of the bridge of the Barumbas node. Is that the topical issue? In no case is there at present a toll issue, especially for Varube. But you have given me the opportunity with your question to make a regression, which you have avoided. It must be understood where we are on the toll issue. You know, it doesn't make much sense to catch yesterday and what happened in 2007. But I'll be honest, I won't hide behind my finger. I will gladly tell you that the design architecture, which took place in 2007, was problematic. That is why the Hellenic Republic did not continue this practice either in the bypass of Patras or in the perimeter of Kalamata. I will not even stand on the 2013 restart that we had the opportunity to make a review. However, I will dwell on the events of 2018, on the events that have shaped the current situation, to which you refer. Then the SYRIZA government had a chance to review this policy. In January 2018, therefore, by decision of the then Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, the amendment of the environmental conditions was adopted for the unequal nodes of Kifisia and Varabubis. As is clear from the decision at the time, there were also side stations in the planning of the Varube project. In the second restart that took place in 2018, no changes were made. We, what we can tell you with absolute honesty is that at the moment there is no question of getting tolled into Varambobi. We expect environmental conditions to be adopted, when and when they are adopted we will see the situation very carefully. As you quite rightly referred to, this is the law of the state. There is continuity in the Hellenic Republic. However, we understand the concern that has been raised. The mayors themselves have been here on several occasions and have had a very sincere conversation with us, and we have to sit down and look at this issue with great seriousness. Today, however, we are talking about an issue that has been topical since 2007. The concessionaire shall be compensated by the Greek State. There is no question of toll construction. We want to believe that we will sit down seriously with the concessionaire, see if we can find a solution. But we have neither a magic wand nor can we say something that would be like throwing the ball in front, as the previous government did, which actually did all that story with the electronic tolls, which, as you know, did not lead anywhere. It's not the government's intention to put tolls on. It is not the government's intention to burden local societies, but today we are talking - and I want to be clear - there is no question of the construction of tolls in either Varube or Agios Stephano. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] So you will allow me to say that I do not understand what it is like to ask a timely question about an issue that has started since 2007, we are in 2020 and is currently being compensated for by the concessionaire and we must sit soberly, seriously and correct the mistakes made yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u70	Thank you, Minister. Good evening. Good week. Happy birthday to be celebrating and celebrating today. Mrs. Apatzidis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, obviously we are asking ourselves why we have some information from residents, from the district, from municipalities. There would be no other personal reason to bring you to Parliament right now and ask questions about 2007 and they have nothing to do with 2020. I, what I understand is that you don't care about the lives of the inhabitants, the ordinary people. It's the last thing you think about in general. Why didn't you say anything specific? As you said, it's been since 2007. It may also be that SYRIZA, the previous government, will not disagree with this, but when we say that there will be huge traffic, economic and environmental consequences, we will call it after studies carried out. Apparently, as I told you, I'm not here for no reason. In particular, however, the toll placement at the height of Varube is accompanied by the demolition of today's bridge - which, if I understood correctly, you said so - and by the works during the construction that will dramatically burden local traffic in Acharnes, Adames, Nea Kifisia, Nea Eritrea, Kalis and elsewhere. There are studies on these effects too. I mention, for example, that a group of transport operators studied the issue and estimated that traffic would increase on the internal network of the Municipality of Kifissia from 160% to 650%. But there is another issue that should concern us. Installation of tolls in urban fabric will also be accomplished in other cases in the future. Do you realize in general what irreparable damage will have for cities, but also for the environment? It is no accident, therefore, that for this toll creation in Varube and Agios Stefano all the municipal councils have expressed their opposition, especially I think - it is a recent post - Kifisia, the Municipality of Acharnon, the Municipality of Dionysus, Kifissia, Amarousi, Metamorphosis, Lykovrissis, Pefki, Halandri, Oropo and the Region of Attica, as I mentioned earlier. The merger and mobilisation of municipalities and citizens are unprecedented in general, and obviously, as we have said, it is not by chance. It is understandable to everyone that this is a development that will completely change their way of life. That's why they're worried, so they're sending us requests, and that's why I'm here right now. The people and municipalities have made up their minds. What are you going to do as a Ministry, that is to say, give a definitive solution and amendment to the relevant law that I have told you for all tolls, or will the will of the people be ignored? Do you think you can ignore this unanimous and dynamic mobilisation of the people and municipalities and propose other interests above the people's voice? In your hand is to put the right priorities and priority must be to save the normal daily life of the inhabitants of all these areas I mentioned earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mrs. Apajidis. And you, Minister, have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u73	Madam President, I think I was quite clear. At the moment I have explained to you that there is no question of toll construction. The Greek State compensates the concessionaire, i.e. the Greek taxpayer who does not use the road pays for the use of the road. Do not confuse the redesign of the barbot node bridge with the tolls. It is another issue and another one. You rightly said in your question that this is a state law. It would be the least uncertain thing for a Minister to come and tell you that we will not put tolls or that we will renegotiate. What I can certainly tell you is that I understand the concerns that exist, and we understand that the tolls which, as I said to you in the New Democracy Government, were adopted in 2007, were in a problem. Here we are finding a final solution. We do not need to create issues where they do not exist at the moment. You would have every reason to ask this question if the final environmental conditions had been approved and if the toll construction had begun. At the moment, nothing has happened either. At the moment I am reluctant to say that, as you can see, this is a negotiation issue. I would be very pleased when we are ready to find a solution to come back to Parliament and discuss it. Let me make it quite clear, Mr President, that today we are talking about no toll tolls in Varube. I will tell you differently: we are not against tolls in general. When they have to come in, they come in. And you are spoken by the speakers who, as Minister, put tolls in his constituency. So here we are talking about side tolls. Here we are talking about tolls that were designed to enter some years ago. The data has changed. We understand that traffic burdens have changed, but at this stage to ask questions and to create the feeling that tomorrow they will be tolled into Varube or St Stephana, you will allow me to say that it has nothing to do with reality. So what I can tell you is that the Ministry sees the views of local society very positively. I have been with the mayors on several occasions and have told them that for any development I will inform them, as will the Greek Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u74	Thank you too, Minister, for keeping time. Let's go to the eighth under number 831/19-6-2020, a topical question from the second Member of Parliament, Mr.Piraeus, Mr. Fotinis Bakadamas, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "In the air, the program "Eleisina Cultural Capital 2021". Mrs. Bakada, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, thank you for coming today to answer such an important issue for many people, but also for the cultural achievement of our country, a question concerning the 'Eleisina Cultural Capital 2021' programme. Moving on to say that after the removal of Ms. Diadide from the position of artistic director of this company, the position remained substantially and still remains headless, while the organization, due to the pandemic, is naturally transferred with most of the information, to the fact that it has been transferred to 2022-2023. Mrs Dialogue's removal to remind us that it took place ten months before the Coronary, beginning the year of the Capital of Culture, and then, last February, it was decided to set up a three-member committee of artistic art. It was a decision that changed again one month later to select and appoint Mr. Vassilis Charalabides as the director of Bios. Eventually, the Board of Directors. the company decided to withdraw its recruitment, as it had undertaken its debts of artistic director without any decision of the Board of Directors. neither contract nor we are leading to today, although the programme has not been officially announced nor the new date for the organisation in question and despite the post-ministerial announcements that the contracts and recommendations of those responsible to the European Commission would have been signed in March 2020 for a transfer to the period 2022-2023. My question, Minister, on the subject is: When are you finally planning to carry out the organization, which artists and what projects will be involved, if the relevant conventions have been signed and why the programme has not yet been announced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bakadima. The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr Styliani Mendoni. Mrs. Mendoni, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Madam Commissioner, for your question. To begin by once again, I have already said so many times, that since November 2016 that Eleusina's cultural capital had been designated and for three years thereafter, at least until November 2019, nothing has been done, nothing has been done, and the parties involved have had huge problems and issues between them. You know very well that ‘Eleusis 2021’ is a public limited company set up by the Municipality of Elefsina, which is the only shareholder, runs by an eleven direct board of directors from the municipality. This company was the lever that promoted the municipality's candidacy for the hospitality of Elefsina and had undertaken the implementation of the artistic events. The municipality, in particular the new municipality after September 2019, indirectly strengthened the company by defining an additional vice mayor who would be responsible for preparing the organisation. What I would like to say from the outset is that as far as the operation of "Eleusis 2021" including the artistic director, which you mention, as well as the filling of the position of artistic director, they are evading the substance of the responsibilities of the Ministry of Culture, as the company is completely controlled by the municipality. I would remind you that in an effort by the government to heal the lost time and win it in November 2019, an Interministerial Committee chaired by the Minister of Culture, me in this regard and with the participation of all the co-legislative ministries, either at the level of the Secretary-General or at the level of the Secretary-General. The interministerial office became just to help "Eleusis 2021", as well as the municipality. In the meantime, the issue of pandemic, which has all these consequences on cultural life, arises not only in Greece but internationally. The cultural capitals, which have been designated for 2021 in consultation with each other, have themselves requested the transfer of the organization to 2022 or 2023. The Ministry of Culture, in consultation with the public limited company, has sent a joint letter to the Commissioner, Mrs Gabriel, and has asked for the year to be postponed for the obvious reasons we have said. When will the cultural capital finally be appointed is something that depends on the European Union's procedures, as the committee will propose to the European Parliament, the European Parliament in the Council and will finally decide on whether the decision 445/2014 will be changed, on the basis of which the titles of culture are governed. Now, as the situation is, and given the unambiguous implementation time, but also with all the problems that pandemic has created, it is really difficult to define the artistic programme safely, international cooperation, if we take into account the fact that at least at the moment there is at least a difficulty at international level and on the security issues, but above all because the artists from the various countries do not know how to move, whether they can travel, in which circumstances they will travel, so there is a quite clear framework. At the moment the company is in a phase of completing its staff vacant posts, it is in a phase that covers the management positions that were not paid and is in the evaluation phase at last for the artistic director. I would just like to point out - and to finish with this in order not to take more time - that the Ministry of the Interior carried out the previous months before the coronary to a grant of 20 million to the Municipality of Elefsina precisely so that the institution's hospitality can be better prepared. The Ministry of Culture is a person of all this effort. What we are actually waiting for is for the administrative issues and the artistic director to be settled by "Eleusis 2021" and the definition of the new date. The European Union is in contact at the level of experts with the cultural capital. We where we can agree with them. We're waiting for the new date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u78	Mrs. Bakada, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, thank you for the clarifications. You will give me the opportunity to ask for some further. In a written question we had tabled on the subject with our colleague and colleague, elected in the B1' Region of Mera25, Mr Gregoriadis, you replied on 16 March that the implementation of the programme planned by the artistic director is impossible since the projects planned were not compatible and were not guaranteed. However, I will submit to the Minutes the official page of Spring Forward Festival, dated 3-6-20, which states that the 20th anniversary of Aerowaves will take place 6 to 9 May 2021 at the time the "Eleissina Cultural Capital" will be implemented in 2020. At the same time, in a post of the newspaper "First Theme", signed by Ms Anastasia Koukas and the post is February 2020 before a coronary arrives in our country, it is stated that the artistic program according to all the announcements would have been completed by the end of March. And this will be filed in the Minutes as soon as I'm done. Also, in the Minutes, I will present the progress report on 'Eleisina 2021' dated 13-5-2019, which, as it seems, already had an integrated and almost fully-trained artistic programme. I agree with you that any transfer of time, a date, should take place after each country's suggestion, so in this case Greece. I will conclude by returning to Mr Charalabidis' position, without a prior decision of the board of directors or a relevant contract, and given him the position of the artistic director. Mr Charalabidis for the time he was able to carry out his duties had full access to the company's data and also to the programme, he made arrangements. We all remember the case of the censorship of Mrs Kitsopoulou's work. The worst thing, however, is that he was ordered to transfer the company's server, i.e. workers' emails, files, websites on the Bios server. In fact, when the Vice-President, Mr. Eryllides, attempted to highlight all this mismanagement, he was effectively removed from the board. I will also present all the relevant letters from Mr. Eriflidis concerning the transfer of the server to the Elefsina municipal council and the President of the IP 2021, as well as their answers, which still leave the field unclear about what has finally happened with the company's server. Minister, this is an extremely serious matter, the questions raised every day are increasingly more and more. Unfortunately, the answers we receive are fragmentary and allow me to say unambiguous in some cases and I think it is a matter that should be dealt with in depth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. Mrs. Mendoni, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I said earlier, the total liability of the operation, i.e. all forms, of ELEUSIS 2021 is in the municipality concerned, is the only shareholder in this company. I am keeping what you are talking about, I know very well that there have been several tensions at the meetings until the decisions relating to the change of members on the board of directors have been taken, but also to the removal of Mr Charalabidis. Perhaps with any new artistic director, things should always be cleared up in collaboration with the CEO, but also with the president of the company. What I would like to say to you - and I think you know - is that according to the information from the municipal public limited company "Eleskina's Capital of Culture" the previous artistic directorate had only implemented 17% of the contractual obligations, which were scheduled by the end of 2019, i.e. those that had taken place three years ago, I repeat that it was very little. Already, the anonymous company cures all these problems, which it has found to a very large extent. The fact that the mayor of Elefsina is now on this board is likely to guarantee at least a little better. In no case would I be the one to say that the cultural capital was going well. There are serious problems which need to be resolved. There are huge gaps and delays, which, in any case, even if the "Culture Capital" is transferred in 2022 or 2023, we must have them fully settled and supplemented, so that there is no problem that will be no longer connected with Elefsina or the Government, but it will be for Greece. Not to become a good "Culture Capital" in 2022 or 2023 will be of concern to the country and we are not prepared to let that happen. So, as I told you, the government decided to set up the Interministerial Committee, which is why the 20 million were given in time by the Ministry of Interior to the Municipality of Elefsina, which is why the Ministry of Culture is moving the procedures that depend on the same. For example, we are already in agreement with the National Bank of Greece, in order for the Ministry of Culture to buy the olive mill site, which, in future, will serve the Archaeological Museum of Elefsina, but within the framework of the "Culture Capital" it will serve the artistic events of the "Crete". Also, the Ministry of Culture has given a huge boost to the works of the archaeological site, because events of the "Culture of the Capital of Culture" will be hosted in the archaeological site. The same applies to the city's wider promotion in a study carried out by the Ministry of the Environment. And here the Ministry of Culture is completely buttoned so that there can be an upgrade of the entrances and the city's image in general. We are also trying to speed up the planning agreement between OAED, Attica Region and the Municipality of Elefsina, on the restoration of the work houses of Elefsina and their conversion to a cultural centre. Elefsina's got a lot of work to do. The three years were, in fact, lost. We all have to make up for lost time together, and that is why I thank you for your question, because you have given me the opportunity to say and submit a few things to Elefsina. We are here to see you as soon as the dates from the European Union are finalised. After all, unfortunately, the crises about how bad the organization of the "Culture Capital of Culture" was not about Greece and the government, but about the European Union and the experts, who also submitted their last report in December 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u82	And I thank both. We will close the process with the Communist Party of Greece, which has two questions for the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs. We begin with our fourth question under number 839/22-2020, on the subject of 'Recognition of the single and uninterrupted postgraduate degree qualification', with the second question of the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, with the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject of: 'The recognition of the single and uninterrupted postgraduate master'. Mr. Synhronakis, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with the Gavroglou Law in 2017, the provision concerning the recognition of the single and undivided postgraduate degree, the integrated master, has been very upset by the graduates of University Schools abroad - Geoponics, Musical Studies, Informatics, Political Engineering, Architects, Engineers and other specialities - while in the course there has also been a problem with the graduates of university departments of the country, such as the Musical Studies of the Ionian University. What exactly has happened? Firstly, the integrated master is not recognized to graduates with qualifications from foreign universities, and there is the relative equivalence and recognition of their qualifications by the former IATA, now IATA. This has resulted in graduates not having the same rights as graduates of equal titles and lacking qualifications in public notices. Secondly, in the course of the course, the undue delay in granting the integrated master, with the responsibility of the Government, to university departments in the country which meet requirements and relate, as I said before, to the graduates of the Department of Musical Studies of the Ionian University, when the corresponding sections have been recognized for a year, so that their degree is not taken into account as an integrated master in their ranking for appointments to primary and secondary education, since the tables of the AEP have already been drawn up. For these graduates, instead of having legislation on subsequent submission of the remaining documents and on retrospective counting them in the notices of the AACC, the matter is left to consider objections from the AACC itself, which, as a non-legislative body, will be called upon to decide on objections, by necessarily applying the provisions of the CCPs. I will also present to you in the minutes the opinion of the Legal Council of State, November 12, 2019, forty-two pages, which is clear and says that "for reasons of legal certainty an explicit provision of legislation would be required". It is not taken into account either. The treatment of both cases is an unjust and unequal treatment of both graduates between the different schools at national level and the foreign graduates. You know that the JRC has disagreed with the Gavroglou law, as recently as with your own bill, the New Democracy. We are now experiencing the lessons of the anti-educational arrangements on the basis of the Bologna guidelines, which dictates the broadening of the categorisation of diplomas and graduates, which objectively lead to it - to say so - to the squabbling of the working rights of all graduates, even more disconnects the diploma from the profession, where everyone will compete for a job with equal rights, to be caught in conditions of uninsured and poorly paid work in the name of competition. So we ask you, Minister: what measures does the government intend to take to solve these injustices, firstly, for the real and substantial equivalence of foreign graduates' diplomas, for which it has been recognised at a responsible state rate or also for integrated master degrees? Secondly, adjusting the allocations for recruitment and progression procedures to the public and where else it is necessary. Thirdly, for counting retrospectively on the notices of the Ionian musicians as integrated master and their equal ranking with the graduates of the musicians of the other universities. Finally, we are asking for immediate measures to be taken to ensure access to the profession, on the sole condition of the degree, without additional courses, certificates and training. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Synergy. The Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Dygalakis, will answer. Mr. Digalakis, good evening, good week. You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u85	Good evening. Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, you actually have two legs of your question. I'll answer both. I will begin first of all by recognizing foreign degrees as a single and unbroken subject integrated master. I should first like to highlight the conditions for recognition of equivalence and equivalence by the IATP. In your question you are making, I would say, the logical mistake to consider that, if a foreign degree has been considered equal and equivalent to an internal degree, it should be automatically recognised as an integrated master. I will explain why this is not right. The recognition of the equivalence and equivalence of the IATP does not imply automatic recognition of the qualifications of foreign students as integrated master and this, to see it, needs to see the criteria for equivalence and equivalence of qualifications abroad. The rate is expected to be given, when the duration of study, the process of teaching and learning and the conditions of evaluation, promotion and graduation of students meet the requirements of our country's universities. The correspondence presupposes that the person concerned will have been successfully taught and examined in the basics - and I stress the word 'basic' - lessons in the similar curriculum of national education. If we now look at the conditions for recognition of qualifications as an integrated master, they are different. In other words, lasting ten academic six months, lessons to be founded in the basic sciences - and these are usually given in the first and second years - a torso courses throughout the cognitive object, usually from the second to the fourth year, deepening and integrating at a high level of knowledge - these are selection courses that are usually a postgraduate level in the last years of studies - and lastly, a degree or diplomatic work, lasting at least one academic semester. All these conditions which I mentioned are not provided for in the conditions for recognition of equivalence and equivalence. This work, obviously, if one considers the other criteria, cannot be just bibliographical. Now, in addition to these reasons, IATA's criteria for recognition of equivalence and equivalence relate to the time of adoption of the act and may not cover the criteria of the integrated master, because the integrated master is a common undergraduate and postgraduate title. The postgraduate degrees in the IATP are not recognised as equivalent except as equivalent and, in addition, should be introduced into the IATP legislation and the integrated master's degree. Therefore, all these reasons explain why it is not automatic recognition of a qualification of study abroad as an integrated master, but legislative arrangements are needed which are our intention to move on to them. If I don't take your time, I'll answer the second question in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Synthraki, you have three minutes and you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u87	Minister, I am holding what you said at the end that your intention is to solve it by legislation and to resolve it as quickly as possible. But I understand something else. I understand we've already been in a time of multi-classified degrees. That's the point. Because these people spent, went abroad for their own reasons, graduated. From there the integrated master is recognized, it is not recognized in Greece and you obviously put them in such a categorization when the four-year study in Greece was automatically converted into five-year-olds. You know these problems in the first place. Isn't that right? The foreign graduates were directly mobilized, directly from 2018 until today, with cross-references, extrajudicial, continuous calls to the Ministry. You have often refused to see them in your office. You're going to tell me the problem was caused by the SYRIZA government which also legislated. That's true. But your responsibilities are on both sides that the problem has not been solved for three years. That's the point. SYRIZA just caused it, you perpetuate it. In other words, "from Anna to Kaiafa". The Ministry referred it to the IATAP. The IOTAP in November 2018, acting unanimously, is returning it to the government because of non-determination for the government to legislate on this matter. And two months later, January 2019, the Ministry reflys the ball to the IATAP. In July 2019, election eves then, the SYRIZA Government responds to the extrajudicial complaint of graduates that it will take action to resolve the issue. Nothing again. We also had a private debate a year ago, and then you replied to me exactly what you said and now, that this case must be solved by legislation. But it's been a year. Now you say it again. I hope that this will happen not after a couple of years, so that we can deal with the problem. We had also tabled a relevant question, of course, in January 2020, which was not answered. And without this loose end having been solved, you proceeded to 3A/2019 special education teachers' notice and general education for permanent appointment, and as a result these people should receive twenty molecules less than the Greek universities' colleagues assigned to them integrated master in retrospective power. The result is foreign graduates, many of whom work in public education as substitutes, but also as permanent teachers at all levels, while having the act of equivalence and equivalent recognition by the IATP, lose these twenty molecules corresponding to two and a half years of pre-service and fulfil the conditions for permanent appointment, while those who are already permanently losing their graduation. Similar tragedies have now arisen with graduates of the music studies of the Ionian University. You said you'd answer me in a moment. I just want to say that these people have been inconvenienced for ten months to identify them with the integrated master and to measure molecules in the ADP provisional tables for recruitment as a substitute for the new school year. The Ionian University had sent you an early request for recognition, as far as I know, on 5-8-2019 and while you promised them that their matter would be resolved, I understand that you ignored it. In the middle of Christmas, however, that is, five months later, you are publishing an ASE/2019 notice. You recognized them, of course, four months after the deadline for the AACC's notice, but you have not retroactively recognized them the right to add this recognition to the requests they have already made. You realise that all this is now unjustified. It's unheard of. In other words, with notices from the AACC, after so long as people are seated and anxiously waiting to see what is going to happen, you realize that they are living an incredible suffering. And no more, we're also entering a process of social automation. Because the others, not the others, have these rights too, in order to recognize the integrated master. The essence is - and I conclude with this, Mr President - that the categorisation of universities, degrees and graduates forms part of a more general Euro-Union strategy which the previous government has implemented with the so-called mobility process, the process of matching qualifications, which is multiclassified by degrees, decoupling them even more from the profession and all that in order to privatise the operation of universities. This is now being extended to teachers. In other words, it is not just at the level of higher education. It extends to teachers. The person studying, that is, has no guaranteed access to the profession that corresponds to his studies and work with full rights to it guaranteed by receiving the degree. We would once again invite you, on the one hand, to proceed directly with the resolution of the issue of graduates abroad, as well as the music studies of the Ionian University retrospectively to give them the right to make supplementary papers so that they can benefit from favourable arrangements in relation to the notices of the AACC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Synergy. Minister, please just a minute to make a statement to this House. The Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, Labour and Social Affairs, Justice, Home Affairs and State submitted a draft law on 29-6-2020: ‘Company governance of public limited companies, modern capital market, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2017/828 of the European Parliament and of the Council, measures to implement Regulation (EU) 2017/1131 and other provisions’. Mr. Secretary, you have three minutes at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u89	Mr Colleague, you mentioned that a year ago you had discussed these matters with me. Obviously, a year ago I was not even a Member of Parliament or a State Secretary of State for Education. But I will agree with you that we really have the illusions of SYRIZA which are difficult, especially in education and higher education.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u90	That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u91	But I would ask you not to say again that I do not accept some people in my office. I have also received the specific foreign graduates' representatives. Everyone in the universities knows that my phone and office is always open and I accept nothing that I see no one to hear their requests. I would now like to refer to the second point which I left in my protology concerning the Department of Musical Studies of the Ionian University. First of all, you refer to the distinction that exists with the other two Departments of Music Studies in particular of the NRP and the Aristotle University. Here, however, I wanted to stress the following for these two sections: the Department of Musical Studies of the ERCEA took a decision of a consortium starting the procedure for requesting recognition as an integrated master in October 2017. The recognition decision was adopted in September 2018, i.e. eleven months later. The Department of Music Studies of Aristotle took a call for recognition of the diploma as integrated master in December 2018. The Recognition Decision was adopted in May 2019. Now, the Department of Musical Studies of the Ionian Sea has started this process much later, for its own reasons, I do not condemn it. He may have judged that he wasn't mature or that he didn't agree or anything. So he took the Senate's decision two years after the NRP and one year after Aristotle, i.e. July 2019, and submitted the request to the Ministry in August 2019. The Recognition Decision was adopted at approximately the same time as that of the EMCDDA in June 2020. There has indeed been a delay, but in matters of lack of competence. It was a mistake, and if we were to keep it in a complex administrative act, it would jeopardise the outcome of the whole operation. However, the essential thing is that the AACC tender, as you rightly point out. It has already been clarified by the Minister that a recommendation has been made in this regard to the AACC, in order that, when they are pending documents without the responsibility of the candidates, they may be accepted at a later stage. This procedure for the submission of supporting documents will therefore take place after the provisional tables before the definitive versions are issued. Here I will tell you that, if necessary, legislation will also be made on this matter in order to get the molecules of the Department of Music Studies of the Ionian Sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u93	Mr President, there is a misunderstanding...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u94	Mr. Synthraki, you're embarrassing me. That's out of order. Is that what the Undersecretary said at first?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u95	Yeah, if you'll excuse me, I'd like the reason to solve the misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u96	You're right here. If that's not the case, you're right. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u97	Thank you. I have analysed a specific background within which the specific reference I made in private to the Minister was included. That was a year ago, ten years ago, nine months ago? Anyway, I can't say for sure. But this meeting was here, and indeed at the point where you are, Minister. This meeting took place and I referred to the specific problem, and the Minister replied and I think he responded positively at that time, so that is not something that should affect him. This conversation has taken place. Now, if he was in a year or so ago or in eight or nine months, we won't stick there. I'm saying that to solve any misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u98	However, what I have to say is that the Undersecretary does have his door open and raise his phone. I know that very well. The seventh question under number 842/22-6-2020 will be discussed in the context of the second question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece.Giannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Direct resolution of the problems faced by students at the University of Western Attica by conducting the examination." Mr. Delia, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. The issue is extremely serious as well as topical. It concerns the examination of students and in particular the examination of students at the University of West Attica, which was the university that came from the merger of the Athens and Piraeus TEIs about two years ago. It has not been enough for students, as for all the people, of course, with the horn pandemic and quarantine, but in any case these students - I am focusing specifically on students at the University of West Attica - are facing serious problems with their examination, which at the moment we are talking about is evolving. As you can see, Minister, this fills children with stress and insecurity and I would add that it creates financial problems, because today is not the time to extend their studies with what is happening in society, with unemployment, with all the financial problems that families face. The University of West Attica announced the program of inquiries - and to be clearer about tele-examination - which will only last three weeks and within this very short time the students should be prepared to give their lessons. In the meantime, there was no early warning. We are now talking about an institution where there is a very large number of students who work alongside their studies in order to meet the cost of study which, as everyone knows, is very high in our country. But there are other problems, Minister. It goes without saying that each student and every student has all the necessary technical equipment to meet the needs of this tele-examination. It is not at all obvious that these students have the computer that they must have with all technical means or have the appropriate internet connection to enable them to monitor and participate in this telematics. The students with his clubs have been mobilized several times, went to the pre-regions, the schools, the departments, and so far they have not been answered. There is great anxiety and great upset especially at the University of Western Attica. We convey their agony and demands to you, to the Ministry and the State Secretary in charge, Mr. Digalakis. So we ask you to tell us what measures are to be taken to extend the tele-examination system, whose scope, in the way it is done, is suffocating. The Ministry must ensure that all necessary technical equipment is provided to students who do not have it and open up the computer centres available to universities. In order to understand those who are following us, I will say that computer centres are the centres for the joint use of students, for those who do not have these means. The student's personal data must also be protected. I'm going to go back to my dentistry on this. Make a double examination in September for all students to deal with all the problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Delis. The Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Mr. Digalakis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Delis, I am delighted with the timely question you ask me, because it is the first time that we have been discussing this academic semester toward its completion. Our universities have actually succeeded in a feat. In these pandemic conditions, they were adapted very quickly and the examinations were given with very great success. Over 96% of the courses were given via the Internet. I really want to congratulate the entire academic community, the administrations of universities and the teaching staff who have been able to and organised distance teaching in such short time, but also our students who embraced distance teaching, so that we are now in a position to say that in the six-month period it is not lost, that the exams are done and that our students are coming out of this adventure and that our university has won a lot from this test. As far as the organisation of university studies is concerned, we have enabled universities, in addition to standard methods of examination, to examine students and by remote methods. Why did we do that? Since the six-month teaching was completed by distance methods and dozens, if not hundreds of thousands of students remained in their home places, away from the universities, you can see that it would be absurd to ask for moves to the universities to be examined by living. One of the prisoners. Second, how did we do that? We made a ministerial decision that told the universities: "If you choose to give tests and by remote methods, you should pay attention to two things. One is to make a decision of the Senate, which will describe how it is guaranteed and guaranteed the inconsistency of the examination and - secondly - what measures you take to protect your personal data." These decisions, which were very detailed and in the case of the University of West Attica, were obliged to post them at the "DIAGY" in order to have transparency and to notify them to the Ministry and the national authority. You refer to your timely question some complaints from students that I would say are vague, but I will dwell on the way in which you specialize. You request an extension of the examination and a double examination in September. I will not hide behind the self-employed, although the academic diary is the responsibility of the University Senate in the context of the self-employed, but I will tell you my opinion: we have cultivated the wrong impression that the universities are exam centres. We've become the university exams, the January, June, September exams, to occupy a lot of the academic diary. Our universities are not exam centres, Mr. Delis. The examinations are to testify to the knowledge of the student who is certified throughout the six months. The student is at the university to find out and will be evaluated throughout the six months. We are therefore totally opposed to this issue. I had dealt with it too many times in my term as a dean. We made sure that the examinations were short and that we had the time necessary for teaching, because this is a matter for the university. He's in college, the student's going to find out, not to run tests. As far as the dual examination of September is concerned, I will add here that we do not know what the epidemiological situation will be in September to say that we need to go into a double examination or do not need to go to the university. I've left some unanswered questions. I'll answer my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Delis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u103	It is the last question anyway, Mr President. I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u104	Okay, I'll give you time, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u105	I'll try to be brief and not to gloat. Look, the Minister opened the debate, the question of distance teaching at universities, which happened anyway. But you know very well that he can't completely replace the university process. There are workshops which cannot be done by tele­vision. We are not saying that tele-education is not an auxiliary tool, but it cannot replace, as we have said, the whole of university teaching. The examination can be done in two or three ways. In other words, it can be done as teletext, it can be done by oral examination or it can also be done with written work. As far as we know, students do not rule out any of these three options since they first have the technical means or the necessary time. Because you can't ask a student to hand you a job in a week and ten days. You understand that the schedules should be opened a little bit. That's why the first request we put in and the kids and students put it is to give an extension. And we are not talking about any huge extensions, for a week of extension we are talking about in the examination. In other words, students cannot mobilize, and I beg your pardon, to listen, as the French said two hundred years ago, Maria Antoinette says to them "if you don't have to eat, eat pancakes", say to them, "because you don't have the technical means to look at them." That's not an answer today. They don't have any kids the technical means, what do we do? So the university itself must open up the centre of computers and the Ministry to assume its responsibilities. You said about the vague complaints. I beg your pardon, Minister, there is very specific complaints. There is a large number of students at the School of Health and Welfare, in the U.S.A., who have been excluded from telex. Now what can we say? Shall we name names? It's a big number. In fact, in several schools and at this university, students were asked "do you agree with these terms?" that is, whoever does not have the means to be excluded from the procedure? And those students who made the mistake of saying they didn't agree because they didn't have the technical means, they were excluded. In any case, it is not possible for children to give their hopes to those teachers who show a good mood to help children in these exceptional circumstances with an oral examination. Not everyone does. In any case, we have been given an extension here, from what we have learned, in recent days. It has twenty-seven departments of the University of West Attica and only one of the twenty-seven were extended, an extension of five days. Why not give all the departments, breathe, take some courage, and the children, read, prepare a little better? I also wanted to make a comment on personal data, because I said I would mention it. In the Accounting Department - and I quote it in the question - we will ask some teachers, not all of them, not all of them do it, from students to download a program that allows the monitor to see what records are on the personal computer of the person concerned. Excuse me very much, but this cannot be accepted. This is a very serious matter. And of course you should know, I imagine the Ministry knows, that several times when too many students fall, the system is kneeling from overloading and not working. These are very practical issues. We don't think we're looking for the sky with the stars. We also ask for a small extension and assistance to children to be able to complete their examination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Mr. Dygalakis has the floor for three minutes as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u107	Mr. Delia, you mentioned that he asked the university for a student's agreement as to whether it agrees to be examined by these methods and you spoke of exclusion. Because I saw the decision of the West Attica University of Senate, he didn't mention it anywhere. It says whether the student agrees to be identified by the method set out in the senator's decision, which is posted in "DIAGY" just as I said in my protology for protecting the whole process. So the student is not asking whether he agrees with the remote examination, but whether he agrees with the way he is identified and even gives him alternatives, if I remember well, if he does not agree to be examined in another way. There is therefore no exclusion. As far as open rooms for computers are concerned, yes, you're right. In fact, we had foreseen it in his ministerial decision at the beginning of May that, from 25 May, when the laboratories and clinics were going back to work and then the examination, universities could open up and open the computer rooms, on the basis of all students who need it to go to these rooms and examine them with the public computers. Now at this university, in PAID, according to the method of examination it has chosen and in the response it gave and the dean is enough for a smart phone to participate in distance education. But I wanted to close by going to the general theme of distance education. Distance education you rightly said that it cannot replace education in a physical presence, but what it can do and must do is complement traditional teaching. You know, the university is a place where each student's program enables him to shape it on the basis of his or her interests and the specialty he wants to get. Therefore, it is only natural that, for example, on a student’s schedule you may have courses that overlap. Therefore, remote methods and the use of electronic methods come to complement traditional methods so that the student can attend the lessons he wants in time, because you know that attendance at the university is not compulsory. I am not saying this in order to encourage students not to go to classes, on the contrary, they must take advantage of their time, but they are given the opportunity to shape their programme more flexiblely to adapt the programme to their own interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u108	Thank you both. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u109	With the consent of this House at 21: 04 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 30 June 2020 at 10:00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed. THE PRESIDENT OF THE SECRETARIAT PRACTICAL STUDIES I WOULD READING BULLETIN JUDGMENT OF THE ECONOMIC AND PRE-FILLED PARLIAMENT REPUBLIC PUBLIC ACCOUNTS IN THE CHAIR: MR ROLE Monday 29 June 2020 (in the afternoon) Athens, today on 29 June 2020, Monday and 18.03', the House met in the Chamber of Parliament's sittings to meet under the chairmanship of H' Vice-President of this Parliament, Mr. Sakorafas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 29-6-20 powers, PXT's minutes of its meetings, of Monday 29 June 2020 (morning) concerning the vote on the entire draft law were ratified: ‘The Single Code of Procedure for the Court of Auditors, a comprehensive legislative framework for pre-contractual audit, amendments to the Court's Code of Law, provisions for the effective administration of justice and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I would like to inform you that in his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that the topical questions to be discussed today are as follows: The second, under number 828/19-6-2020, is a topical question from the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Meikopoulou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Magnesia's toxic air'. The first under No 845/22-6-2020 topical question by MP B1'North Athens Department of New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kourides to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Promoting the use of bicycle as an alternative for urban transport and a means of improving the quality of life of citizens'. The first under No 846/22-6-2020 topical question for the second cycle of the Athens Parliamentary I, Mr. Fotinis Pipilis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Integration of the Canyon of Neda and other treasures of the country's water wealth into a protection regime". The sixth question under number 847/22-6-2020 is a topical question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on "Television Megalopolis". These topical questions will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis. The eighth question under number 831/19-6-2020 of the second Piraeus II cycle, Mr.Fotinis Bakadammas, to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "In the air the program "Eleisina Cultural Capital 2021", will be answered by the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr. Styliani Mendonis. The fifth, under No. 829/19-6-2020, topical question for the second cycle of the Parliamentary I East Attica of Mera25 Mr. Maria Apatzidis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The cancellation of tolls to the unequal nodes of Varympos and St. Stefanos", will be answered by Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr. Konstantinos Ah. Karamanlis. The fourth under number 839-26-2020 topical question by Mr Manolis Hercules Iraklios of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Manolis Synthraki to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The recognition of the single and undivided degree in postgraduate studies (intergrated master)". The seventh under number 842/22-6-2020 topical question by MP I of the Greek Koumunist Party Mr.Giannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Direct resolution of the problems faced by students at the University of Western Attica by conducting the examination." These topical questions will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Digalakis. The second question under number 827/19-6-2020 of the first cycle of the Rethymnon MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The Greek Government does not support the plan of the World Health Organisation (WHO) for universal and equal access to medicines and vaccines against the new krone." The third, under number 832/19-6-2020, is a top-level question by the Member of the Halkidiki Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr.Apostolos Pana to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Insufficientness of EKAB rescuers at the Cassandra Halkidiki Health Center”. These topical questions will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassiliou Kontozamani. The fourth under number 837-26-2020 topical question for the first cycle of MP B3' South Athens Section of the Communist Party of Greece Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "No ninety employees of the "Aghia Sophia" Children's Hospital will be fired, not discussed due to a blockade by the MP. The third, under number 835-26-2020, topical question by the Member of the Hercules Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr.Kingaros Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "To return to single places the functions of the clinical functions of the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PAGNI) dispersed due to a coronary and strengthened by medical personnel", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Member. The fifth under number 825/19-6-2020 topical question by MP B1 'North Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'Removal of artistic courses from the secondary education curriculum', will not be discussed after consultation. We will start the debate with the second under number 827/19-6-2020 on the first cycle of the Rethymnon MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The Greek Government does not support the plan of the World Health Organisation (WHO) for universal and equal access to medicines and vaccines against the new krone". The State Secretary for Health will answer Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Your Honor, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u112	Thank you very much. [[DISCLOSURE]] [[After THE DISCLOSURE]] Minister, pandemic, which is hitting the whole world horizontally and which is a major cross-border threat to public health, seems to have raised new needs, new challenges for countries, for societies, for health systems, but has also brought to the fore the risk of new inequalities. This is disparities in access to new vaccines, medicines or medical devices that may occur in the next few years. The current international framework that regulates copyright protection, patents, companies' commercial practices creates serious side effects and risks to stay back, as the World Health Organisation says, countries, peoples and social groups because of financial difficulties. Against this danger, the World Health Organization and Dr. Tedros have taken initiatives, has even said the WHO Director-General that, the greatest risk is not in itself the virus but the lack of global solidarity at this stage, namely in the process of confiscation to deal with it. They've taken initiatives, then. There is the well-known Kosta Rica resolution at the UN General Assembly, which in fact considers that vaccines and drugs are a global public good and must be guaranteed, with the aegis of the World Health Organisation, access to all countries and all societies in them. To this end, a special - let us say a fund - was set up after negotiations a pool of access, access tool, which precisely allows this perspective. Our country at the beginning of the WTO General Assembly supported the original resolution. But then, after the fierce reaction of the United States, which has opened a war with the World Health Organisation and undermined all such prospects on the global coverage line, it has retreated and unfortunately also retreated many countries of the European Union and in its final form the WTO proposal supports it only four countries of the European Union and Norway five. I think it is a problem that our country is not at this stage with this critical and radical initiative, which changes the balances, correlations and priorities on the global pharmaceutical market and prioritises the needs of societies rather than the needs of the market and business profit. I think that we are waiting for explanations on this, because I think that at this critical moment, our country ought to have a small market country and a small negotiating capacity, to support interventions, initiatives and moves which are also made with the support of personalities, political leaders, major humanitarian organisations, patients' alliances, etc., throughout the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, universal and equal access to health services, medicines, vaccines and any other therapeutic and preventive means are available, is an obligation of the state to the citizen. And this is an unnegotiable principle of our government. At the time of the pandemic it was clear that some things, some decisions go beyond national Member States and decisions are taken at supranational level. The Prime Minister himself, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in recent statements he mentioned the need to distribute the vaccine against the coronary, when it develops, not to work in the name of the profit. It is clear that the best possible solution must be found when and if this vaccine is developed and how it will be available to all citizens in need. The pandemic of the coronary has indeed highlighted new needs and challenges in terms of access to medicines, vaccines and medical devices. More has brought problems to the surface which have to do with the management of threats and about the cross-border threat and management of these crises. In this light, issues not equal, and not at the same time, access to medical care in other Member States were identified. Fortunately, we have faced this pandemic without having to deal with such problems. I will agree with you that the recent pandemic has demonstrated the need to develop and use new tools for medical care and it is necessary to strengthen and develop a common supply of both medical devices and vaccines at European level through a central European process. Unfortunately, while we participated in the joint supply of equipment and consumables during the pandemic period, this attempt was not successful. Also, it is very important that the Valletta initiative, as you mentioned in your question, is very important, and we continue to support and participate in it. Unfortunately, so far, we have not had the results we would have expected. I would like to say this when it comes to your question and the initiative of the World Health Organisation: in fact, we have decided to hold a standby. Of course we are given the possibility of expressing support at a later level in this initiative. There are, in fact, some ambiguity about the implementation of this initiative and nothing has to do with what you have been talking about. But what have we so far done to obtain coronary vaccines when they are ready at European level? First of all, we believe that it is the only way for all Member States to have access to vaccination and to be able to limit the spread of the virus. We are taking part in the European Union's initiative to advance the supply of coronary vaccines. This means that the European Union takes the risk of financing the development of a vaccine and losing its money if that is not good. At the same time, the European Union is able to speed up the development and availability of the vaccine by financing its development. A coordinating committee has already been set up in which all the Member States are involved, and Greece is also involved, and work has already begun and we believe that it is the best solution to the problem that exists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u115	Me too, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u116	Mr Kontozamani, I have in mind the Prime Minister's statements and at a meeting recently with Greek scientists abroad, and the other day I saw a participation in a European forum for this initiative by Coronavirus Global Response, which is financed at the initiative of Von Der Lyen with some 10 billion, in which our country participates at about 3 million. That's right. The question is, why is the World Health Organisation's initiative - which, in my view, is wider than this European initiative and is an initiative that has caused conflicts and conflicts with the United States and with large countries that have strong pharmaceuticals, but also with pharmaceutical companies that are trying to deceive it, because in this conflict, in this divisive section - our country is not on the right side, is not, in other words, on an initiative that supports it by other European countries? Portugal is one of the ones that together we have set up the Valletta Alliance, we have a route of common approach to these issues, it is a follow-up of initiatives that we had taken in the previous period, so that there can be transnational cooperation and joint negotiation of countries with small markets such as our own and to achieve better prices. I think that this dynamic must be strengthened at this time, in order to change the balance and promote the needs of societies, the rights of patients and not the gain of business. I think it is a problem that our country does not support this initiative. What I heard about waiting, really, I don't understand. I think we ought to do this in the next few years. In any case, even the European Commission's initiative is criticised by various groups in the European Parliament, that is, the left-wing Eurogroup is talking about a non-binding European Union strategy today. I think there really is a dominant demand today for equality in accessing these new medicinal products, goods, vaccines, diagnostic tests whenever they occur and most likely we all hope that they will occur in the near future. I think it is now time for global solidarity and European solidarity in a clear and unequivocal manner, in a guaranteed way and not with paralytic balances. That is what I think is crucial. Indeed, since the general idea is not called into question, that is, the right to access and that vaccine and medicines are public goods, I think you really should see it again. It is a policy that I would say health diplomacy, which the government needs to take advantage of. There is the precedent from the period of ours on Valetta's initiative. We have managed with nine countries in the European South and some of the Balkans to take some important steps, and we have given a signal that this is the future for relations between countries and companies and that, in any case, the current framework which produces inequality and creates barriers to access must be slowly challenged at its core.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, you were clear, but I was clear too. The Greek Government is absolutely positive about the design at the outset of the World Health Organization for the universal, of course, and equal access to medicines and vaccines against the new coronary. We are listening to this proposal, we can take the initiative later. At the moment, we are on the right side, we are with the European Union, all the Member States have all united in order to ensure the growth and mood of the population in need of the vaccine against the coronary. We were among the first states to point out and because of the success of the pandemic management that both patent issues and issues of equal access to the population should be considered, and, of course, as a Greek state, we are doing everything possible to ensure, if this vaccine is produced, equal access for all citizens to this new treatment. And for the Valletta initiative, as I have said, we are of course supporting it. I wish this initiative had produced concrete results so far. There's been steps. I hope very soon that we will see concrete results, because surely the negotiating power of more than one state is greater, is stronger than when it is negotiated by one state alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u119	Thank you, too, Minister. We continue with the third under the number 832/19-6-2020 current question of the first cycle of the MP Halkidiki of the Change Movement Mr.Apostolos Pana to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Insufficientness of EKAB rescuers at the Cassandra Halkidiki Health Center". The State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis, will also respond. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u120	Minister, at such a difficult and demanding state-of-the-art state-of-the-art situation due to the spread of the coronary, expectations of the country's health system are necessarily high, especially in areas with geomorphological characteristics such as Halkidiki, with long distances between prefecture and road areas which in many cases are not in good condition, ambulances from the nearest health centre per region are either little or late due to these difficulties. This problem is also noted at the Cassandra Health Centre, a major tourist area for the whole of northern Greece and the Balkans in general. Features I will tell you that the municipality of Kassandra is the second in a local municipality, during the summer months, and reaches seven hundred thousand. So the Cassandra Health Center has only seven rescuers, so that it is not possible to manipulate a single ambulance. We also know from the beginning that one of them will retire. The issue, therefore, arises is too great for the health center, as the lack of rescuers means a failure to move the ambulances and ultimately this can have direct health effects. I have made a reference to it on 3-2-2020 after a letter from the Cultural Association of Kassandrin, which is signed by about a thousand eight hundred inhabitants of Kassandra, who are interested in what will finally be done with the part of the rescuers in an extremely tourist area. In conclusion, Mr Secretary, I would like you to tell us whether you will immediately launch the recruitment of EKAV rescuers, for the Cassandra Health Centre, on the basis of the ministerial decisions that have been made and the notices of the AACC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u121	And I, Mr. Colleague, thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Pana, it is true that the National Health System has completed its pensions, more than thirty-seven years have passed since its establishment and, of course, the shortcomings that are not current and the staff are slowly retired and these pensions, together with the shortcomings and increased health needs of citizens, are indeed creating a pressing situation. We need lasting solutions in terms of both the National Health System and the EMS in order to meet these growing needs. For the time being, our plan concerns both the redesign of services provided by the National Direct Aid Centre and the land health centres, in order to meet the needs of the patient's crossings with permanent staff, the recruitment of ancillary staff and the transfer of personnel where they are necessary. Magic wand we don't have! We've received a situation. If you have to give it to us or at least lend it to us. Halkidiki, in fact, Mr Pana, is a leading tourist destination. For the purposes of health coverage with adequacy of the areas of Halkidiki, and in particular of the Municipality of Kassandra, we have proceeded with concrete actions. In order to serve the Cassandra Halkidiki Health Centre and at the request of the EAW, nine other ancillary staff were recruited and in the next few days the other ancillary staff platform is reopened, so that we can meet more needs of the EAW in ambulance crews. In addition, EKAV Halkidiki has the following operational power: Ten ambulance vehicles, thirty-five ambulance crews attempt in the EKAV Halkidiki sector and assist its work with four employees in the hospitals’ crews. At Halkidiki's, the ambulances operate 24/7. It's ten or eleven ambulances about. The shifts of the ambulances in the Halkidiki sector are carried out in collaboration with the staff of the prefecture health centres, under the coordination of the EAW and the coordination of the ambulances, the strengthening of the Cassandra Health Centre with staff of the ICM of Ambulance Payments for the 24-hour service is the responsibility of the 4th RCF. The health region shall immediately recruit ancillary personnel. Given the increasing operational needs of the EKAB Halkidiki sector during the summer months, it is indeed supported by voluntary movements of staff from other sectors. This decision has already been adopted by the President of the EMCDDA and will be reinforced by eleven employees in the ambulance crew sector. The aid with more rescuers will be increased now that the other ancillary staff platform is opened. This practice is followed for many years, ensuring the growth of the operational capacity of the EKP according to the needs of both Halkidiki and other tourist sectors in which the EKP operates throughout the territory. Also requested and approved by the Ministry of Health with regard to the number of additional ancillary staff in the EAW, including fifty posts for the Thessaloniki EAW and twenty-five posts for the EAW Halkidikis, for which, as I said, the platform opens in the next few days. Finally, the EMCDDA, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, in the context of the wider global planning of its operational activity, promotes the strengthening of the EMCDDA in Halkidiki through the recruitment of not only ancillary staff but also permanent staff, with the aim of operational support for the sector and always in view of the rational management of resources and human resources, with due respect for the proper consumption of government budget money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u123	Me too, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u124	Minister, we are obviously not asking for magic wands, but we are asking for there to be substantial areas where there are genuinely great need and regions which are the image of our country abroad, which will take us a step further. I'll give you a simple example. An ambulance to provide his services all day, needs three shifts and fourteen staff. This means practically that in Cassandra, if the rescuers do not increase, half the shifts will be empty. I mean, there won't be any rescuers on some shifts. I ask you the practical: would you go on vacation in a tourist area, which would not have been on a 24-hour basis a constant rescue of the EKA, in other words would there not be an ambulance? Currently thirty to forty-eight hours are uncovered by an ambulance in Kassandra and think that the distances in Halkidiki are such that it can take ninety minutes to go to an incident. So you understand the gravity of this matter. Today, we have already had an incident where a lady in Siber Halkidiki was rescued with the coordination of both the EMCDDA and the health centre, as well as the rescuers and volunteer groups. Recently I read about a rescuer in Halkidiki, who actually formatted his bike into a mini ambulance, adding defibrillator, oxygen flask, lighthouse and first aid bag. It is worth noting that he himself and other volunteer rescuers faced a hundred and sixty incidents last summer, of which some fifty were serious and involved drowning, heart arrests and other traffic accidents. However, we cannot rely only on volunteering and humanity nor can the practice of recent years continue to apply, where municipality and private individuals have actually paid accommodation so that rescuers can come to the region during the period of their permission and offer their services. So, in your programming, there must be lasting and reliable solutions, especially to this delicate issue of public health and one more to areas that are the image of our country and one more that, with good reason, begins our country's tourist season and will come to many tourists and holidaymakers from foreign areas and will be the source of our own income. So, I would ask you, your planning is more crucial for the region of Kassandra, which over the years has been facing a huge problem and needs to be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u125	Me, too. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Pana, in fact, the health services provided by the country are the image of the country. How rather, in the next days that the tourist season begins, with Greece having done so so far, we should show the world that the state and the health system are ready to deal with any incident. Let me say that in the last year we have taken over the country's governance, we are not trying to manage a situation, but we are trying to change things, in order to have permanent solutions to the health system, which will improve the health services provided and, of course, to create the conditions where every citizen will feel safe in terms of the health services provided to him. The EMCDDA is an important pillar of the National Health System. There is a specific development plan of the National Direct Aid Centre, both as an autonomous agency and in relation to the interconnection of the EMCDDA and the creation of an integrated system of emergency pre-medical care. Of course, we are taking all the necessary steps to ensure that there is sufficient coverage and as much coverage as possible of all needs. As I said to you, in the next few days, the platform of the other ancillary staff is reopening. They have committed positions for both Halkidiki and other regions of Greece. We will be able to have ambulance crews at our disposal, but we will also be able to proceed with the staffing of the National Direct Aid Centre with permanent staff. The call for permanent posts in the EAW is already under way and is being planned for the next few years, so that we have the necessary crew needed by the National Direct Aid Centre. We support the EAW, let me say, not only in human capacity but also in material infrastructure and equipment, with new ambulances, with new services, in order to respond directly to any incident that needs immediate assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u127	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Social Affairs presents its report to the draft Law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Statification: (a) its 23-6-2020 amendment from 6-9-2018 Donation Convention, (b) the 23-620 Individual Donation Contracts for Projects IX and X and (c) of 23-620 Amendment to the Individual Donation Convention for Project VII - The Victim of its 6-9-2018 Donation Convention between the Foundation ‘COMMUNICATIONS STARON S. NIORHOS’ and the Greek Public Administration for the strengthening and upgrading of health infrastructure, ratified by Law 4564/2018 (A 89) and supplementing Law 4693/2000 (A 116).’ Ladies and gentlemen, we will have to make a short break by 7 p.m., because the Minister has another obligation and will be here at that time. In twenty minutes from now the meeting is continuing again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. The sixth question will be discussed under number 847/22-6-2020 in the second half of the Parliament's Vice-President and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: “Television Megalopolis”. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the issue of district heating is very well known. We incorporated it in 2014. He gave it up when SYRIZA came in the first semester. Then the New Democracy had to come back to take care of it. And now this work has been answered, because it cannot go any further. I want to tell you specific things, because I think you will understand them very quickly. You talk about liberation - I will not speak at this time - and that gas will come and the city of Megalopolis will join natural gas for the heating of residents, businesses. There are three elements. There's the point of logic. I think you're a reasonable man. There is an existing structure in Megalopolis. We're stopping her. We increase the cost to consumers and businesses with natural gas by building a new heating unit and not connecting it to unit 5, Minister, which is for the next thirty years to reduce costs. Second, it's the environment. You understand that gas will increase carbon dioxide emissions too much. And let's go to the third, Minister, in the economy. I give you two numbers, based on a study. In the existing infrastructure, i.e. if we go to unit 5 and get the district heating there, we'll be at 45 euros of MWh. If we go with the gas, we go at 90 to 100 euros, MWh and more. Why are you causing this whole process that will be uninvesting? Because some who want to come to Megalopolis to invest in low energy costs, we increase it. And of course, for the inhabitants it will be a very difficult time. We also have a proposal on all of this. And what we suggest you do not do. We propose the creation of high-efficiency cogeneration and cogeneration units, the well-known STHYS. Not only will it solve the problem of heating, but it will also offer cheap energy, which could be used in manufacturing and agri-food sectors. I ask, Minister - and I think you are one of the reasonable people - in these three arguments the government is saying what? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u131	Mr Constantinople, first of all, the government has a comprehensive plan for deprivation, which we can discuss today if you like. In titles just to tell you - because it is a good news for the inhabitants of the lignite regions - that on the basis of the last European Commission's proposals for the Recovery Fund and on the basis of a statement by the Commissioner responsible, Mrs Ferrera, where Greece has waited until the amount of EUR 3.7 billion to EUR 4.4 billion in the lignite regions has been EUR 6.2 billion. We are talking about a very large amount, which we should not just try to absorb but make good use of, because it can change completely, towards the positive image of the lignite regions and of course also the Megalopolis Municipality. Not to underestimate that. We have close contact with the Mayor, Mr. Christogiannopoulos, with the District Chief, Mr. Nika, with the Vice-President, Mr. Lambropoulos, and we recently had a meeting. We've done more. The Undersecretary, Mr. Thomas, down. Obviously, at our last meeting, we also discussed the crucial issue of district heating. The steps were analysed for the development of a natural gas network in Megalopoli, which will cover the whole of the city's buildings. I would stress all the buildings, because this will cover both the current users of district heating, which is 50% of households, and buildings for new consumers who are not currently covered and able to connect to the natural gas network, which also covers more needs in households than in district heating. It offers more services to the user, such as in the kitchen, etc. Today's district heating users, on the basis of what we said at this meeting, will not be charged with the cost of connecting their buildings to the natural gas network, as they had paid when they were connected to the district heating. So, we tell the people you paid for the district heating, we come and we change it to you, we put you in the gas. Therefore, as it is our decision, you will not pay. The connections between new consumers' buildings and the natural gas network will have an equivalent burden to that of their fellow citizens when connected to the district heating. PPC will continue to meet the needs of district heating and heating in Megalopolis during the 2020-2021 heating period, despite the end of the relevant contract at the end of the year. The company will install a boiler that will be operated by combustion of liquefied petroleum gas and gas burning capacity, and will cover the costs of installation and operation of the boiler for the above period. Especially for the issue of the district heating you mention in your question, as you know the operation of district heating depends directly on the operation of PPC's unit 3 in Megalopolis. Based on PPC's programming and timetable, this unit will be withdrawn in 2022. What you are saying is that the connection between the district heating network and Megapolis 5 - which sounds reasonable to someone who is not closely monitored and is not familiar with the techniques and I am familiar with them - is not my studies - it does not ensure the smooth operation of the heating system. "Megalopolis 5" is part of the market in the electricity system with competitive offers and on the basis of its variable costs, so it is not a given function, which is why we have chosen the development solution - as we did in Florina - of the natural gas network in Megalopolis, while at the same time ensuring - as I have explained - that the inhabitants do not get the burden.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u132	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u133	Minister, I'm going straight to the point. All you said is a reality. So what do you think? 'We'll build a new district heating network'. 50% was until today. That's right. That is why we had completed the other 50% in the NSRP, 19 million. This has joined and answered. Secondly, you're right to say that gas will go, but what's the cost? Let's go to the cost, the basic for the consumer or the businessman we want to come to Megalopolis, which you say you have this design and the 6.2 billion. Shall we throw down the 6.2 billion dollars? And if they don't come into business, if there's not a rewarding benefit for the region to be able to come and have an interest in the area? Otherwise it will be a dead area that will share some money and it's over. What I'm telling you, however, is that unit 5 won't work all year long, I've never heard of it. I'm honest. It's the first time it's been in dialogue, and I'm really going to look into it. But if it doesn't work, we'll have other issues, because in Megalopoli there'll only be the fifth unit. I think you're interconnecting with Crete. So the cable that comes in and becomes the interconnection of Crete - Peloponnese, will it get out of the unit? I'm telling you, I'm not an expert, but it seems to me contradictory. I ask, Mr Minister, there is a study. Whoever has a sense would have done this: He would have put on a study if the heating would be able to go with gas for the citizens or stick it next to unit 5. One study and see whether it is of interest or not. I'm talking on the basis of evidence. I am not talking about the environment and all that we have said. I'm telling the evidence. The change in the mode of heating in the existing gas heating infrastructure will increase the cost of MWh from EUR 45 to EUR 90 to EUR 100 and this will exceed EUR 120 when the district heating network is converted into a natural gas supply network. I say, Minister, that these figures have been said, they have been written in studies that I can give you. In this ministry, the political leadership and we all tell the citizens that PPC is leaving, that the post-linguistic era is coming, "we're going to give you money" but will you increase the heating cost by about 220%? How's it going to happen? I, Minister, speak frankly, because I think you're a reasonable man. Ask a study for the fifth unit to stick next to the district heating or natural gas. There's one thing I'm going to tell you. Here will come a private gas provider who will fix all these things. We have to see: Is it also an interest for the government to invest its money in the general set or a private person? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u134	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u135	Mr. Constantinople, I am delighted first of all to acknowledge that I am a reasonable man. Not everyone recognizes it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u136	I recognize it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u137	What I would like to say to you, to be quite clear to every resident of Megalopolis, is that of course life is changing there and I will reach the end of my position to say what we are doing for the change of life as a whole in Megalopolis. In the meantime, because the most urgent issue is heating, we ensure two things. One is that there will be, as is self-evident, continuous and uninterrupted supply of heating to those who had it, but at the same time we create the infrastructure - and that is the second - to cover the whole of Megalopolis and not half of Megalopolis. With the natural gas networks we will have a coverage of the whole of Megalopolis, and in fact we will provide more services to households and businesses than to what half of Megalopolis has had up to now, because the presence of natural gas in households and self-money businesses means more than just tele-heating. The cost of natural gas is cheap, it is by definition cheaper than oil and it is something that many cities are looking for in Greece. There is a TEN programme that goes beyond the thirty cities they want tomorrow morning, if possible, to connect to natural gas. So I wonder why the Megalopolis doesn't want it. The second thing we ensure in the Megalopolitan, which has not been self-evident so far, is that this unit, 'Megalopolis 5', will be able to operate up to the 811MW that it has potential. That was not guaranteed. We're making sure. What I cannot guarantee you, because I am over and above anyone like me who is in the position of the Minister for the Environment and Energy, is that this unit will function continuously, because that is not the Minister's decision. This is decided by the models of European and national legislation, which, based on certain types, put units in and out of operation according to prices. That is why on 8 June I remember it was not working - if you don't know it - no lignite plant in the country, precisely because of the rules that I described to you. So I cannot guarantee - and anyone who guarantees it will be a liar - that this unit will function constantly and continuously in order for it to take gas or an area, because there are other rules. That is why we have chosen this method. We've explained them, I repeat them here. I would like to say to you, beyond EUR 6.2 billion, that our action on liberation has already begun. We have a plan for two GW in western Macedonia, but also for a GW with photovoltaics in Megalopolis. We wish, if possible, that residents become part of this effort, that is not to say not to see PPC's or any private investor's units expand and that they themselves do not participate. We want to talk to you, see how the residents will be involved in all this new business activity. Don't underestimate it. It's very important, it's a stable income for residents. In addition, the Green Fund has already launched its action on degreasing programmes, and its actions include the Megalopolis business park. In particular, the Green Fund will invite the Peloponnese Region to submit a request for funding to update the feasibility and viability study of the business park. At the same time, the lignite resource that was not attributed to SYRIZA is attributed, and this money is important. It's 136 million all over the country. This money can be invested in Megalopolis. Let us not forget one last thing: in addition to all the money that comes from the European Union, from the European Investment Bank, etc., there is also a national support policy that has to do with special tax incentives that will be adopted. This is not a promise, because already in the electricity bill, which will come to Parliament in a few days' time, we have a special clause that in lignite areas there will be special tax incentives to establish companies, plants producing chargers and batteries. This is a first measure. There will be a holistic approach to the government. We have already presented a 12-axle programme since February. I believe that by September we will present the master plan for degreasing, the government's global plan for what - yes, I accept - changes life in Megalopolis and in western Macedonia but changes it to the most positive one. Residents are renegotiated by lignite, which is harmful both to the environment and to public health, and at the same time the region acquires at the same time the characteristics with the active support of the government of a truly European modern region.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Minister. We move to the first under No 845/22-6-2020 top-level question of the first cycle of MP B1'North Athens Sector Mr. Dimitrios Kourides to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Promoting the use of bicycle as an alternative for urban transport and an instrument for improving the quality of life of citizens'. Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis will also be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, dear Mr. Hatzidakis, the subject of my timely question is about the bike. I think we will all agree that the bike is the poor relative of urban movements, that our cities in general are hostile to its use. My question was the Coronovirus epidemic and the new habits that prevailed in the crisis, as we live with measures to dismantle public transport. There is a risk of excessive traffic congestion in towns from the excessive use of IX, which was a great one before the crisis. In many European countries, the Koronian crisis has triggered the strengthening and encouragement and subsidisation of the use of bicycles. It is true that the problem is complex, escaping the Ministry of the Environment. It concerns the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, of course, the Ministry of the Interior, because they are also matters of local government. I am pleased that you have agreed to respond and I am very pleased to await your views on where we are today, where we want to go and how we will go there, on a subject which is composed of all three levels of governance in our country, namely the local with local government, the national with the government and, of course, the European Union, because the European Union grants sustainable urban mobility projects, which I do not know whether they have gone ahead. Somewhere they've moved forward, somewhere they haven't moved forward. How can we make our cities more friendly, more sustainable, sustainable according to best European practices in this matter, starting from very low? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u140	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u141	Thank you, Madam President. I have a lot to say. I'll tell what I've been up to in protology and then we'll go on. The bike's not a fashion, it's an ecological way of moving. Those who have lived abroad, especially in advanced European countries, know this very well. In recent years there has been a very great increase in bicycle roads and support from both states and municipalities across Europe for bicycle travel. What have we started to do, so that I am not used to theoretical analyses on the subject? First of all, last autumn, we started drawing up a national bike strategy which is not abstract, with concrete measures and actions. This text, which we are talking about, takes the turn of the co-legislative ministries, in order to adopt, because there are joint responsibilities in the field of bicycles, and to promote holisticly by the government. The second thing we are doing is that we are now immediately moving towards the completion of two major cycles in Attica with funding from the Green Fund. The first is Ghazi - Kifisia. He's become the other half from Ghazi to the beach. It has a funding of 7 million from the Green Fund and it is going to be auctioned. The second bike is new. It will start from the metro station in Katechaki, go Polytechnic City, University and end up in "Evangelism", using the network that already exists within the Polytechnic Town and the University. It has 10 km long and 3 million euros budget from the Green Fund. The third one that we have promoted - and this is a law recently passed - is temporary pedestrians and bicycles, because of the coronary which you have rightly mentioned, Mr Courides, previously, as well as the conversion of roads into mild traffic. We have also issued technical instructions on the part of the Ministry. I am pleased that several municipalities are already responding and moving towards other European municipalities. Fourthly, it is the National Plan for Electricity with the bill that we are tabling and which has not only actions for electric cars but also for electric scooters and electric bicycles on which the aid is even more important, because it reaches and exceeds 40% of the value of an electric bicycle. The fifth is a broader plan, technical guidance on urban and outdoor public space planning for the benefit of pedestrians. I'm saying that for Mrs. Pipili. It is something we want to go on with. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] And the last thing, and I close with this - and we have the bell of the President - is the preparation of the sustainable urban mobility plans, the SVA, which we will see again with the co-legislative ministries and which are coming to implement in Greece guidelines for European environmental travel and for the benefit of cyclists and pedestrians.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u142	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u143	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, for the information and for the initiatives you are taking. You will, however, agree that a few municipalities as a whole have made progress in drawing up these sustainable urban mobility plans. Very often bikes are designed “on the foot”, they create other kinds of problems. The problem is complex and needs the co-operation of municipalities - a region, when we talk about the two major cities of the country, Athens and Thessaloniki, as it escapes from the boundaries of a simple municipality and of course the national government. Europe gives funding. It is of great interest to support these actions, but I see that, although it is a matter that we have been discussing for decades now, on this issue we have remained far behind. Let me briefly tell you that in other countries, half-and-a-billion-dollar plans have been drawn up. I read the British Government's recent announcements on this issue, half a billion pounds to boost the use of bicycles. It's money that looks inappropriate to us. I would like to encourage you, therefore, and encourage you to move on in this direction even more forcefully so that we do not just discuss the issue on a plan. And I would urge the present Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Kostas Karamanlis, to whom also belongs, as well as to the Ministry of the Interior, on the question as local government is very involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u144	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u145	In Greece there is a small one, but there is a tradition of bicycle roads, for example in Carditsa, which was recently awarded in a European competition for cycling roads and in Rethymnon, my place of origin, which was awarded in the great cities of Europe, recognising the size of the city's spirituality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u146	Minister, you forgot the Trikala.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u147	Madam President, I apologise, you are right. Your presence here had to remind me. And Trikala is among these cities, but I was drawn by the ostrich for Rethymnon. The crisis took things back to Greece in this respect. I believe that the direction of things in Europe and the normalisation of the general economic and social life will lead us to take the steps we need. We symbolically and essentially start from these two major bike roads in Athens. Of course, we must not forget other cities and especially Thessaloniki. I am pleased that the Mayor of Thessaloniki embraced this initiative on the temporary bicycle routes and will proceed immediately, as I understand it, to the development of such bicycle routes in Thessaloniki. I am sure that the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Kostas Karamanlis, with whom we are working on a number of issues, is also very positive. We will work with them and they will cooperate with us both on the issues of cycling roads and on the issues of the SBAKs, the Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans, as we work with them, as they work with us on the issue of electromobility. It is green transport, which is also at the heart of the new proposals by the European Commission and the Recovery Fund. The country will also have resources to implement such policies, and that is why your question, Mr Cairides, is very topical and certainly in line with the demands of young people, but also with the people who see things going on in Europe and internationally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u148	Thank you, Minister. We move to the first under No 846/22-6-2020 of the second question of the Athens Parliamentary I of the New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Pipilis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Integration of the Neda Gorge and other treasures of the country's water wealth into a protection regime". The Minister for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr Constantine Hatzidakis. Mrs. Pipili, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u149	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, there will be a lot of wonders about the work of an Athenia, the birth of a nourishment, and indeed the question of protecting the Gorge of Neda, which is just the protagonist or other treasures of the country's aquatic wealth, such as the Polylimni of Messinia, the Always Rain in Karpenisi, Livaditis in Thrace and others. The whole world cries, reading in the international and the Greek press, because they melt, for example, ice in Antarctica, destroys Everest from the mountain hordes and rarely the Greek press, especially the local communities and authorities, to protect the trial of natural environment monuments such as, for example, Neda is the top - to me - a canyon that is an ecological and, at the same time, mythological and historical from the time of Pausanias, a natural limit of Elias - Messinia. In fact, on the side of Elijah, eternal waterfalls occur. The largest of them who are fifty meters high, forms a wide shadow dome, where, of course, the conditions of visitability - during the months especially July and August - are hideous and only in the picture, because we are not talking about tourists - visitors, we are talking about barbarians, who have no idea of visiting an environmental monument. In previous years Neda’s gorge was completely abandoned. Already now the Municipality of Sakharos, one of the two "owners", the other is the Municipality of Triphyria in Messinia, is beginning to care. Will the Ministry proceed to measures to protect the Neda Gorge, with the obligation to introduce an operating regulation on visitability such as Samaria Gorge? Will the Ministry generally proceed with the same protection as other areas that make up the country's water wealth that we need to protect it, such as museums and archaeological monuments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u150	Thank you too, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u151	Mrs Pipili is right in her findings about Neda and therefore the water system Neda has been incorporated as a recreational area in the register of protected areas, which provides for the management of river basins in the west Peloponnese aqueduct. This also concerns both the initial management plan adopted in 2013 and the first revision of 2017. Of course, the inclusion of Neda in the Register of Protected Areas of the Aqueduct as a place of recreational water does not imply the protection you propose. The water catchment area of Pasios-Nedon-Nedon-Nedas, which includes the location of the canyon, does not fall within the protection area of biodiversity or a national park. Therefore, according to the environmental law that we passed in May, specific sites can be classified as protected landscapes and natural formations by ministerial decision, after the opinion of the region concerned. The same decision makes it possible to impose conditions and restrictions on the activities carried out in those areas, such as veracity. In order to initiate such a procedure, it should be forwarded to the relevant department of the Ministry of the Environment, which will document the ecological or other physical value of the protected object, determine conservation priorities and propose terms and restrictions. In the context of parliamentary control and information by potential stakeholders, the Wetland Management Body of the University - Strongness and Cyprus notified us, in other words, after your question, that although this water catchment area does not fall within the scope of its competence, it is positively approaching the integration of the Neda Canyon into a protection regime. The positive view, even at an early stage, of the specific body operating in the wider region is important and shows a direction. A positive view of the issue was taken by the Peloponnese Region, which, together with the Region of Western Greece, can cooperate and submit to the relevant departments of the Ministry of the Environment the special report that will document the need to do what you say, Mrs. Pipilis. Both regions must cooperate, because Neda is right to Elijah and Messinia. One county belongs to western Greece and the other to the Peloponnese, that is, both to the Peloponnese belong, but in any case, you understand what I mean, administratively. For our part, at the Ministry, we are ready to work with the regions and all involved, so that your question will also be an opportunity to have an upgrade of the protection of Neda. I didn't answer you for the second one, but I'll answer the second one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u152	Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u153	First of all, I am excited that this mobilisation exists, not only from the Ministry of the Environment - I had no doubt - but also from the regions. But you know what? I am very strict on some issues because I also have a huge experience in the Municipality of Athens, where at some point it is the state and government that determine the limits and rules. The regions all these years have undoubtedly had money and dynamics, right? It is not the old municipalities and communities and it surprises me that all these years throughout Greece, it has not been given sufficient importance to recognise themselves as places of protection and to impose, then, the programs that determine how many visitors, in any case, at any time or day a waterfall can be accepted. Minister, I've printed a photo so people can figure it out. This is the great waterfall of Neda and has a small lake. Madam President, in this small pond of July and August you can come in and see through walking crabs, fishes, all the biodiversity that the region has and a hundred people! A hundred people in it! And I say, "Well, so many years I've been yelling and saying, is that possible? Put a limit on it! First of all, the sign "It is forbidden in this little natural treasure to enter and bathe". The canyon is of mythological and historical importance to others. Pausanias describes this perfectly in his "Arcadian". We're talking about an ecological monument in which they never paid any attention. That is why I am particularly pleased by what the Minister has said to me, but I am glad that I should also add my own proposals which are: forbidden swimming in the lake of the great water and a ban on expressly free camping that lights and fires in this wonderful landscape, which I would stress is in the heart of the totalitarian catastrophe since 2007 of forest wealth in the Figalia region. Also, Minister, it is not possible to make safe roads which go right into the canyon and are such a wide range that they also receive visitability coaches. So I think your position is very positive too. But you must be very strict. I am also glad that the Municipality of Sakharos and the local authorities in the region of Figalia, which belong to both the waterfalls and the whole story from the age of mythology and on the other hand, are ready to cooperate, because they have understood that, to deliver an environment in the future, it is not enough to cry just because the ice is melting in Antarctica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u154	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u155	Mrs Pipilis, as you refer to a particular area, as you are talking about throughout Greece, is the ones who believe, on the one hand, that the environment must be protected and more than is being protected today. On the other hand, it is those who consider that the restrictions that exist so far for turtles, for any protected species, are disastrous for their properties. And in the middle we are the ones trying to implement the law with good European practices in mind. That's what we're gonna do here. This is how we will proceed, on the basis of European law, national law, the case-law of the Council of State and the principles of modern states. I told you that we have environmental sensitivity, which we are trying to show in practice. I didn't answer you for the Messinia Polylim, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u156	That's where something's going on, I found out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u157	As I did not forget it - I have my notes here - I would like to say that the Peloponnese Region informed us that on 16 June a programme contract was signed between the district and the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens for research work entitled 'Research to reduce the environmental risks of Polylimni Messinis'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u158	Messinia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u159	Messinis writes here, but I accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u160	It's a long way from Messini. I know well...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u161	Okay. The aim of the research programme is to provide a complete clarification of the geological, geomorphological and general geo-environmental conditions of the wider area of interest, so that appropriate interventions can then be chosen to reduce the potential risks to the site and its visitors. So on the subject of Polylimni Messinia there is a positive development and I am glad that today I have two positive news to give you first. You must not rest assured, however, because all these issues must be monitored very closely. It is relatively new for Greece and we must all show our sensitivity, with our first ones, to show it every day in practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u162	Thank you, Minister. And we're going to the last question to the Minister of the Environment. It is the second question under number 828/19-6-2020 of the second question by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Magnesia's toxic air'. Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u163	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, on June 15th, the first results of the 12-month investigation were published by the Special Research Group of the University of Thessaly, "Green Your Air" with scientific staff, the Assistant Professor of the Department of Engineering, University of Thessaly, George Saharides, as well as Professor Constantine Gourgulani, Director of the University of Thessaly, University of Thessaly. The study concerned the recording of the problem of air pollution in the urban complex of Volos, namely the existence in the atmosphere of the area of the population harmful to health of PM2,5 microparticles and whether these exceed the permitted limits in accordance with international and Greek legislation. According to the results of this study, the mean concentration of suspended PM2,5 microparticles for the 12-month period from 1 to 3-2019 to 29-2-2020 was 30,03 mg/m3, with an annual limit based on the World Health Organisation of 10 mg/m3 and an annual limit value based on Greek legislation of 25 mg/m3. This practically translates into an excess of 200.3% in terms of the limits established by the World Health Organisation and 20.12% in terms of the limits established by Greek legislation, on the basis of a European directive. Mr. Hatzidakis, you know very well that Volos is an environmentally burdened city. The problem of air pollution in Volos is both acidic and multifactorial. Taking into account that this study only concerns suspended particles of PM2,5 and not other atmospheric pollutants that may exist, the widespread concern of the citizens and of the city's scientific bodies about the effects on their health is fully justified and calls for immediate action. Two very simple and practical questions arise, Minister: First of all, what results do the Ministry of the Environment and the region have so far had from exercising competence in monitoring the air quality of Volos and how do these results relate to this study? And, secondly, how do you intend to intervene and what is the exact timeframe for pooling stations for measuring and recording the city's gases and what measures do you intend to take to limit air pollution in the city of Volos?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u165	Mr Meikopoulou, thank you for the question, because it gives us the opportunity to clarify a number of parameters in relation to an issue that is causing discussion and concern in the city of Volos, to the extent that this can be finalised in the context of this question. In addition to the research team of the University of Thessaly, which measures air pollution in the town complex of Volos, my answer must also be based on the information we had from the Ministry of the Environment, the Quality Department of Atmosphere of the Ministry of Climate Change. Because it is technical enough, I will try to make it as simple as possible, so that those who are following us understand what this is all about. Monitoring the quality of the air environment in our country is carried out by a national air pollution monitoring network with 24-hour constants. The national network stations monitor pollutants provided for in the relevant legislation for the assessment and assessment of air quality, namely Directive 2004/107, Directive 2008/50 and Directive 2015/1480. These Directives have established limit values and target values for normal atmospheric pollutants to protect human health. The national network, which I am talking about, is a measuring station in Volos, which has installed the Ministry since 2000 and whose responsibility the Region of Thessaly has been responsible for. The Ministry has as its responsibility the supervision of this station and through a project funded by the NSRF renewed, with your own government, in 2016 the plant with a new suspended particle analyst and the monitoring extended to other suspended particles that were not previously mitigated. I can say more, but because the time passes, I want to get to the measurement results, as we have been from this ministry station. For 2019, Mr Mikopoulos, the station recorded, on the basis of what the address tells me, an annual average concentration for suspended PM10 particles equal to twenty-nine micrograms per cubic metre and therefore said that the data were not exceeded the annual limit value that is forty micrograms compared to the twenty-nine observed. Also, twenty-six days were observed with an average 24-hour PM10 concentration of more than fifty micrograms per cubic metre, of which 10 were assigned to a transfer of dust from remote areas (Sakhara) in the competent bodies. Even without deduction of the impact of dust, a procedure provided for in the relevant legislation, there was no exceedment of the daily limit value of thirty-five days per year. With regard to suspended PM25, the station recorded an annual concentration of 16 mg/cybic and therefore, again, the annual limit value of 25 mg/cybic was not exceeded. I've already been talking for four minutes, but I have other facts to tell you, because I know this is a matter of concern. I should like to tell you about the initiatives we have taken, to see how we are going to deal with this issue in substance and in relation to the concerns of the world. I'll tell you in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u166	Thank you, Minister. Mr Meikopoulou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u167	Thank you very much, Madam President, and I ask you in advance for a tolerance. Minister, I have listened to you very carefully and since, on the basis of the information provided by the Directorate responsible for the Environment, you are convinced of the cleanness of the atmosphere in the town complex of Volos, I am here officially calling you - I will host you at my house - to sit seven days, one week in Volos and to answer the citizens responsiblely from where and why it smells so much plastic. How can there be a dust finger on every citizen's car? How can there be such increased cases of cardiovascular disease? How can there be such increased cases of cancer? And that's not what I'm telling you, Mr. Hatzidakis, with opposition, nor with a wooden logic. Today, I would like to give you a clue. The Panhellenic Cancer Association has provided information to the President of the Local Cancer Association, Ms. Sophia Ioannou, where it includes Volos among the most cancer cases in Greece. And they connect these cases to the phenomenon of air pollution in the city. These data come to be linked to an older epidemiological study performed by the hospital, Thessaly Region and the university, where they also found the same thing, that there are increased cases of cancer and connect it to air pollution. You have the results of this study in your hands. And don't tell me, Mr. Hatzidakis, you don't know the oxymoil that's happening in this case. The one single meter that exists and operates under regional supervision, you know very well - and your Ministry's Directorate responsible has answered me in writing - that beyond the PM2,5 micro particles it cannot record at least six more significant pollutants. And you know very well that, for example, with regard to dioxins and furans, which are secreted by the combustion of alternative fuels used by the LAGV for saying, the RDF or the SRF plant that Volos wants to make, so far the whole scientific community of the city has found that these substances produced by the use of these fuels are dangerous to public health. This meter doesn't record these, Mr. Hatzidakis. So I am not coming here today to ask you an opposition question. I come to pass on to you anxieties of the city, aggregating the scientific bodies, who so far have identified the issue of secondary alternative fuels, but also link them to the increase in cardiovascular diseases and cancers in the Volos region. Mr Hatzidakis, you cannot ignore this. I propose to you this: Since there are good reasons for public health, since I believe that you do not want people to die prematurely in Volos, should not the district, the Ministry, the municipality lift the decisions that have so far been made regarding the secondary alternatives of RDF to 'AGET', but also the creation of a SRF plant in Volos Municipality? Is it not enough that the atmosphere is already burdened because of the use of IX in the winter woods and woods, should we be burdening the health of Voliotis, not seeing that secondary fuels are causing serious diseases on the basis of studies and harming public health in general? I think, Mr Hatzidakis, that if you really want to convince the world that you have an environmental consciousness, you need to come to Volos to make a decision to remove the 2014 GDP, which gives the cement industries the right to burn RDF, to stop the construction of a SRF plant in Volos and to sit together with the scientific community to find a more environmentally friendly solution. There's also natural gas. And as to what I'm saying to you, it's not just the society that's afraid of and the scientific institutions. See the last decision of the Regional Council contradictory. He gave a favourable opinion on the creation of factories at Volos, but not on processing techniques SRF. What does that mean? That the state itself is not convinced that these fuels are environmentally friendly. I think that the time has come because of the particular topography of the region to make drastic decisions, so that the atmosphere at Volos cleans and does not continue this thing, whenever you talk about Volos to hear that "children over there, you have cancer all the time, it is a burden on the atmosphere, it smells, there is dust on cars". If you think I'm lying, come sit on Volos for seven days and see them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u168	And we, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Micopulus, I didn't tell you you were lying. I have no intention of doing this, nor am I more Boliotis than you are. You live in this area. I just have to rely on some evidence, and I'm counting on the evidence of the ministry and cash. I told you, the meter I'm talking about was upgraded to SYRIZA. I shall therefore refer to these measurements in some additional moves that we are making and I shall end up with RDF and SRF. First of all, in terms of more recent regulations, the air quality section of the Ministry of the Environment, covering a Union obligation, provides the website of the European Environment Agency with measurement data for national networks, including the Volos station. Every hour we give information to the European Union. For example, for days 22, 23 and 24 June, the suspended PM10s registered an average of 13 mg/cybic on the first day, 13 mg/cybic on the second day and 16 mg/cybic on the third day I mentioned to you. In the same days, A25 suspended particles, an average of 8 mg/cybic, 7 mg/cybic and 7 mg/cybic respectively. So for this time the limit value is not exceeded, based on the legislation and the meter. As I mentioned the prices of last week, where we had a rise in temperature, the analytical measurements from the station are available for all interested parties on the Ministry's website and on the Thessaly Region. I understand that even though I'm talking about the meter, a lot of people might not be convinced. We have contacted the region, and we have said that the Region of Thessaly, under the legislation, has responsibility for air monitoring. She with further research and sampling, agreed and proceeded at the beginning of the year to a second air pollution measurement station in the city of Volos, and has launched a programme through the NRV to finance two new, integrated air pollution monitoring stations in Volos by submitting tenders to end on 30 June. Furthermore, at the recommendation of the Air Quality Section, the Green Fund has been authorised to finance EUR 150,000 to acquire another air pollution monitoring station that will also include pollutant gas analysers. That is, five stations will be installed at Volos now, very soon, so that any doubt is removed. And of course, Mr Meikopoulou, if there is a problem, we will not close our eyes to it. We have no reason to do this, nor politically, of course - who wants to have a society against it - but neither conscientiously. Obviously, we are interested in the quality of life, I think the same as you. We'll see it and we'll answer it accordingly, but so far we have Mr. Gouliani's team, I don't know the man, I suspect him, I don't have any issues with him, which says what you're saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u170	Is that a lie?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u171	I didn't say that, Mr. Meikopoulou. And we have the official service of the Ministry and the meter that gives every hour information to the European Union that says other things. Come in, please. That is why we have ordered the above meters which will soon be installed in order to draw definitive conclusions. However, I would also like to make a reference to the issue of secondary fuels with energy utilization of the SRF and the RDF. Is that our policy? It's European policy. Do I say so? That is what the European Commissioner for the Environment says. I read his reply to Mr Hood two years ago. It's European policy. Is it just European policy and just our position? It's yours, Mr. Micopulus. It's SYRIZA's position. It's yours. It's in the five-year plan for waste management. SRF and RDF are in there! Isn't that enough for you? See how much more inside you are and how much more SYRIZA's position is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u172	...invitation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u173	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u174	Four days before the elections on 3 July last year, in other words, last year, Mr Famelos signed with the cement industry as the then Deputy Minister for the Environment, a voluntary cooperation agreement for the use of these fuels. So find Mr. Famelos, please consult each other at SYRIZA, whether or not you supported them, whether Mr. Famelos was wrong or not, if Mr. Tsipras and the Ministry of the Environment who incorporated them into the official planning of the country was wrong. You also decide whether the whole of the European Union is wrong to accept this technology and then we come to discuss this issue as well. I say again: that is why I am quite clear and quite clear and I am speaking with evidence. On the other issue, more generally, of the air pollution that is conflicting, I told you that we will set up more stations to draw our conclusions and to operate for the benefit of the environment, obviously, but also for the citizens of Volos and Magnesia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u175	Thank you, too, Minister. The fifth question will be discussed under number 829/19-6-2020 in the context of the second-round question of the Eastern Attica of Mera25 Mr. Maria Apatzidis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The cancellation of tolls to the unequal nodes of Barumbas and St. Stephanos". The question will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Karamanlis. My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, a very important issue has arisen. The tolls to be installed in Varube and Agios Stephanos, in the unequal nodes, will make the lives of the inhabitants very difficult in many municipalities, such as the Acharnes, Dionysus, Oropo, Kifisia and many others. They will make people's lives difficult both at the economic level and at the traffic, but there will also be environmental consequences. This is an open motorway, which serves the daily needs of residents, residential and professional. The tolls in Varube and Agios Stephano will first of all be a financial disaster for the inhabitants. Residents use this piece to go to work in their various jobs to get back home. It's not a place to get tolled. Moreover, due to to tolls the entire movement will be channelled into the urban fabric. Do you understand what that means? To put all the movement into the cities where people live, where they have their shops, will result in the destruction of the entire normal life of the inhabitants. Finally, the impact will also be negative for the environment, due to the movement that will be channelled into the urban centres. Do you realize how much this will increase pollutant emissions and noise pollution? So I ask you, what you intend to do to cancel the tolls at the unequal nodes of Barumbas and St. Stephen. Do you intend to amend Law 3555/2007 by which the concession has been ratified? Only this would be a lasting solution for us at Mera25, so that people can be sure that the placement of all kinds of tolls will be definitively prevented and that they can continue their normal life without concern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u177	Me too, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u178	Dear colleague, thank you for the question. But I don't understand why it's timely. And I'll explain. The amendments to the environmental conditions we are making relate to the redesign of the bridge of the Barumbas node. Is that the topical issue? In no case is there at present a toll issue, especially for Varube. But you have given me the opportunity with your question to make a regression, which you have avoided. It must be understood where we are on the toll issue. You know, it doesn't make much sense to catch yesterday and what happened in 2007. But I'll be honest, I won't hide behind my finger. I will gladly tell you that the design architecture, which took place in 2007, was problematic. That is why the Hellenic Republic did not continue this practice either in the bypass of Patras or in the perimeter of Kalamata. I will not even stand on the 2013 restart that we had the opportunity to make a review. However, I will dwell on the events of 2018, on the events that have shaped the current situation, to which you refer. Then the SYRIZA government had a chance to review this policy. In January 2018, therefore, by decision of the then Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, the amendment of the environmental conditions was adopted for the unequal nodes of Kifisia and Varabubis. As is clear from the decision at the time, there were also side stations in the planning of the Varube project. In the second restart that took place in 2018, no changes were made. We, what we can tell you with absolute honesty is that at the moment there is no question of getting tolled into Varambobi. We expect environmental conditions to be adopted, when and when they are adopted we will see the situation very carefully. As you quite rightly referred to, this is the law of the state. There is continuity in the Hellenic Republic. However, we understand the concern that has been raised. The mayors themselves have been here on several occasions and have had a very sincere conversation with us, and we have to sit down and look at this issue with great seriousness. Today, however, we are talking about an issue that has been topical since 2007. The concessionaire shall be compensated by the Greek State. There is no question of toll construction. We want to believe that we will sit down seriously with the concessionaire, see if we can find a solution. But we have neither a magic wand nor can we say something that would be like throwing the ball in front, as the previous government did, which actually did all that story with the electronic tolls, which, as you know, did not lead anywhere. It's not the government's intention to put tolls on. It is not the government's intention to burden local societies, but today we are talking - and I want to be clear - there is no question of the construction of tolls in either Varube or Agios Stephano. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] So you will allow me to say that I do not understand what it is like to ask a timely question about an issue that has started since 2007, we are in 2020 and is currently being compensated for by the concessionaire and we must sit soberly, seriously and correct the mistakes made yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u179	Thank you, Minister. Good evening. Good week. Happy birthday to be celebrating and celebrating today. Mrs. Apatzidis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, obviously we are asking ourselves why we have some information from residents, from the district, from municipalities. There would be no other personal reason to bring you to Parliament right now and ask questions about 2007 and they have nothing to do with 2020. I, what I understand is that you don't care about the lives of the inhabitants, the ordinary people. It's the last thing you think about in general. Why didn't you say anything specific? As you said, it's been since 2007. It may also be that SYRIZA, the previous government, will not disagree with this, but when we say that there will be huge traffic, economic and environmental consequences, we will call it after studies carried out. Apparently, as I told you, I'm not here for no reason. In particular, however, the toll placement at the height of Varube is accompanied by the demolition of today's bridge - which, if I understood correctly, you said so - and by the works during the construction that will dramatically burden local traffic in Acharnes, Adames, Nea Kifisia, Nea Eritrea, Kalis and elsewhere. There are studies on these effects too. I mention, for example, that a group of transport operators studied the issue and estimated that traffic would increase on the internal network of the Municipality of Kifissia from 160% to 650%. But there is another issue that should concern us. Installation of tolls in urban fabric will also be accomplished in other cases in the future. Do you realize in general what irreparable damage will have for cities, but also for the environment? It is no accident, therefore, that for this toll creation in Varube and Agios Stefano all the municipal councils have expressed their opposition, especially I think - it is a recent post - Kifisia, the Municipality of Acharnon, the Municipality of Dionysus, Kifissia, Amarousi, Metamorphosis, Lykovrissis, Pefki, Halandri, Oropo and the Region of Attica, as I mentioned earlier. The merger and mobilisation of municipalities and citizens are unprecedented in general, and obviously, as we have said, it is not by chance. It is understandable to everyone that this is a development that will completely change their way of life. That's why they're worried, so they're sending us requests, and that's why I'm here right now. The people and municipalities have made up their minds. What are you going to do as a Ministry, that is to say, give a definitive solution and amendment to the relevant law that I have told you for all tolls, or will the will of the people be ignored? Do you think you can ignore this unanimous and dynamic mobilisation of the people and municipalities and propose other interests above the people's voice? In your hand is to put the right priorities and priority must be to save the normal daily life of the inhabitants of all these areas I mentioned earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Mrs. Apajidis. And you, Minister, have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u182	Madam President, I think I was quite clear. At the moment I have explained to you that there is no question of toll construction. The Greek State compensates the concessionaire, i.e. the Greek taxpayer who does not use the road pays for the use of the road. Do not confuse the redesign of the barbot node bridge with the tolls. It is another issue and another one. You rightly said in your question that this is a state law. It would be the least uncertain thing for a Minister to come and tell you that we will not put tolls or that we will renegotiate. What I can certainly tell you is that I understand the concerns that exist, and we understand that the tolls which, as I said to you in the New Democracy Government, were adopted in 2007, were in a problem. Here we are finding a final solution. We do not need to create issues where they do not exist at the moment. You would have every reason to ask this question if the final environmental conditions had been approved and if the toll construction had begun. At the moment, nothing has happened either. At the moment I am reluctant to say that, as you can see, this is a negotiation issue. I would be very pleased when we are ready to find a solution to come back to Parliament and discuss it. Let me make it quite clear, Mr President, that today we are talking about no toll tolls in Varube. I will tell you differently: we are not against tolls in general. When they have to come in, they come in. And you are spoken by the speakers who, as Minister, put tolls in his constituency. So here we are talking about side tolls. Here we are talking about tolls that were designed to enter some years ago. The data has changed. We understand that traffic burdens have changed, but at this stage to ask questions and to create the feeling that tomorrow they will be tolled into Varube or St Stephana, you will allow me to say that it has nothing to do with reality. So what I can tell you is that the Ministry sees the views of local society very positively. I have been with the mayors on several occasions and have told them that for any development I will inform them, as will the Greek Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u183	Thank you too, Minister, for keeping time. Let's go to the eighth under number 831/19-6-2020, a topical question from the second Member of Parliament, Mr.Piraeus, Mr. Fotinis Bakadamas, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "In the air, the program "Eleisina Cultural Capital 2021". Mrs. Bakada, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, thank you for coming today to answer such an important issue for many people, but also for the cultural achievement of our country, a question concerning the 'Eleisina Cultural Capital 2021' programme. Moving on to say that after the removal of Ms. Diadide from the position of artistic director of this company, the position remained substantially and still remains headless, while the organization, due to the pandemic, is naturally transferred with most of the information, to the fact that it has been transferred to 2022-2023. Mrs Dialogue's removal to remind us that it took place ten months before the Coronary, beginning the year of the Capital of Culture, and then, last February, it was decided to set up a three-member committee of artistic art. It was a decision that changed again one month later to select and appoint Mr. Vassilis Charalabides as the director of Bios. Eventually, the Board of Directors. the company decided to withdraw its recruitment, as it had undertaken its debts of artistic director without any decision of the Board of Directors. neither contract nor we are leading to today, although the programme has not been officially announced nor the new date for the organisation in question and despite the post-ministerial announcements that the contracts and recommendations of those responsible to the European Commission would have been signed in March 2020 for a transfer to the period 2022-2023. My question, Minister, on the subject is: When are you finally planning to carry out the organization, which artists and what projects will be involved, if the relevant conventions have been signed and why the programme has not yet been announced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u185	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bakadima. The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr Styliani Mendoni. Mrs. Mendoni, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Madam Commissioner, for your question. To begin by once again, I have already said so many times, that since November 2016 that Eleusina's cultural capital had been designated and for three years thereafter, at least until November 2019, nothing has been done, nothing has been done, and the parties involved have had huge problems and issues between them. You know very well that ‘Eleusis 2021’ is a public limited company set up by the Municipality of Elefsina, which is the only shareholder, runs by an eleven direct board of directors from the municipality. This company was the lever that promoted the municipality's candidacy for the hospitality of Elefsina and had undertaken the implementation of the artistic events. The municipality, in particular the new municipality after September 2019, indirectly strengthened the company by defining an additional vice mayor who would be responsible for preparing the organisation. What I would like to say from the outset is that as far as the operation of "Eleusis 2021" including the artistic director, which you mention, as well as the filling of the position of artistic director, they are evading the substance of the responsibilities of the Ministry of Culture, as the company is completely controlled by the municipality. I would remind you that in an effort by the government to heal the lost time and win it in November 2019, an Interministerial Committee chaired by the Minister of Culture, me in this regard and with the participation of all the co-legislative ministries, either at the level of the Secretary-General or at the level of the Secretary-General. The interministerial office became just to help "Eleusis 2021", as well as the municipality. In the meantime, the issue of pandemic, which has all these consequences on cultural life, arises not only in Greece but internationally. The cultural capitals, which have been designated for 2021 in consultation with each other, have themselves requested the transfer of the organization to 2022 or 2023. The Ministry of Culture, in consultation with the public limited company, has sent a joint letter to the Commissioner, Mrs Gabriel, and has asked for the year to be postponed for the obvious reasons we have said. When will the cultural capital finally be appointed is something that depends on the European Union's procedures, as the committee will propose to the European Parliament, the European Parliament in the Council and will finally decide on whether the decision 445/2014 will be changed, on the basis of which the titles of culture are governed. Now, as the situation is, and given the unambiguous implementation time, but also with all the problems that pandemic has created, it is really difficult to define the artistic programme safely, international cooperation, if we take into account the fact that at least at the moment there is at least a difficulty at international level and on the security issues, but above all because the artists from the various countries do not know how to move, whether they can travel, in which circumstances they will travel, so there is a quite clear framework. At the moment the company is in a phase of completing its staff vacant posts, it is in a phase that covers the management positions that were not paid and is in the evaluation phase at last for the artistic director. I would just like to point out - and to finish with this in order not to take more time - that the Ministry of the Interior carried out the previous months before the coronary to a grant of 20 million to the Municipality of Elefsina precisely so that the institution's hospitality can be better prepared. The Ministry of Culture is a person of all this effort. What we are actually waiting for is for the administrative issues and the artistic director to be settled by "Eleusis 2021" and the definition of the new date. The European Union is in contact at the level of experts with the cultural capital. We where we can agree with them. We're waiting for the new date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u187	Mrs. Bakada, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, thank you for the clarifications. You will give me the opportunity to ask for some further. In a written question we had tabled on the subject with our colleague and colleague, elected in the B1' Region of Mera25, Mr Gregoriadis, you replied on 16 March that the implementation of the programme planned by the artistic director is impossible since the projects planned were not compatible and were not guaranteed. However, I will submit to the Minutes the official page of Spring Forward Festival, dated 3-6-20, which states that the 20th anniversary of Aerowaves will take place 6 to 9 May 2021 at the time the "Eleissina Cultural Capital" will be implemented in 2020. At the same time, in a post of the newspaper "First Theme", signed by Ms Anastasia Koukas and the post is February 2020 before a coronary arrives in our country, it is stated that the artistic program according to all the announcements would have been completed by the end of March. And this will be filed in the Minutes as soon as I'm done. Also, in the Minutes, I will present the progress report on 'Eleisina 2021' dated 13-5-2019, which, as it seems, already had an integrated and almost fully-trained artistic programme. I agree with you that any transfer of time, a date, should take place after each country's suggestion, so in this case Greece. I will conclude by returning to Mr Charalabidis' position, without a prior decision of the board of directors or a relevant contract, and given him the position of the artistic director. Mr Charalabidis for the time he was able to carry out his duties had full access to the company's data and also to the programme, he made arrangements. We all remember the case of the censorship of Mrs Kitsopoulou's work. The worst thing, however, is that he was ordered to transfer the company's server, i.e. workers' emails, files, websites on the Bios server. In fact, when the Vice-President, Mr. Eryllides, attempted to highlight all this mismanagement, he was effectively removed from the board. I will also present all the relevant letters from Mr. Eriflidis concerning the transfer of the server to the Elefsina municipal council and the President of the IP 2021, as well as their answers, which still leave the field unclear about what has finally happened with the company's server. Minister, this is an extremely serious matter, the questions raised every day are increasingly more and more. Unfortunately, the answers we receive are fragmentary and allow me to say unambiguous in some cases and I think it is a matter that should be dealt with in depth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. Mrs. Mendoni, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u190	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I said earlier, the total liability of the operation, i.e. all forms, of ELEUSIS 2021 is in the municipality concerned, is the only shareholder in this company. I am keeping what you are talking about, I know very well that there have been several tensions at the meetings until the decisions relating to the change of members on the board of directors have been taken, but also to the removal of Mr Charalabidis. Perhaps with any new artistic director, things should always be cleared up in collaboration with the CEO, but also with the president of the company. What I would like to say to you - and I think you know - is that according to the information from the municipal public limited company "Eleskina's Capital of Culture" the previous artistic directorate had only implemented 17% of the contractual obligations, which were scheduled by the end of 2019, i.e. those that had taken place three years ago, I repeat that it was very little. Already, the anonymous company cures all these problems, which it has found to a very large extent. The fact that the mayor of Elefsina is now on this board is likely to guarantee at least a little better. In no case would I be the one to say that the cultural capital was going well. There are serious problems which need to be resolved. There are huge gaps and delays, which, in any case, even if the "Culture Capital" is transferred in 2022 or 2023, we must have them fully settled and supplemented, so that there is no problem that will be no longer connected with Elefsina or the Government, but it will be for Greece. Not to become a good "Culture Capital" in 2022 or 2023 will be of concern to the country and we are not prepared to let that happen. So, as I told you, the government decided to set up the Interministerial Committee, which is why the 20 million were given in time by the Ministry of Interior to the Municipality of Elefsina, which is why the Ministry of Culture is moving the procedures that depend on the same. For example, we are already in agreement with the National Bank of Greece, in order for the Ministry of Culture to buy the olive mill site, which, in future, will serve the Archaeological Museum of Elefsina, but within the framework of the "Culture Capital" it will serve the artistic events of the "Crete". Also, the Ministry of Culture has given a huge boost to the works of the archaeological site, because events of the "Culture of the Capital of Culture" will be hosted in the archaeological site. The same applies to the city's wider promotion in a study carried out by the Ministry of the Environment. And here the Ministry of Culture is completely buttoned so that there can be an upgrade of the entrances and the city's image in general. We are also trying to speed up the planning agreement between OAED, Attica Region and the Municipality of Elefsina, on the restoration of the work houses of Elefsina and their conversion to a cultural centre. Elefsina's got a lot of work to do. The three years were, in fact, lost. We all have to make up for lost time together, and that is why I thank you for your question, because you have given me the opportunity to say and submit a few things to Elefsina. We are here to see you as soon as the dates from the European Union are finalised. After all, unfortunately, the crises about how bad the organization of the "Culture Capital of Culture" was not about Greece and the government, but about the European Union and the experts, who also submitted their last report in December 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u191	And I thank both. We will close the process with the Communist Party of Greece, which has two questions for the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs. We begin with our fourth question under number 839/22-2020, on the subject of 'Recognition of the single and uninterrupted postgraduate degree qualification', with the second question of the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, with the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject of: 'The recognition of the single and uninterrupted postgraduate master'. Mr. Synhronakis, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with the Gavroglou Law in 2017, the provision concerning the recognition of the single and undivided postgraduate degree, the integrated master, has been very upset by the graduates of University Schools abroad - Geoponics, Musical Studies, Informatics, Political Engineering, Architects, Engineers and other specialities - while in the course there has also been a problem with the graduates of university departments of the country, such as the Musical Studies of the Ionian University. What exactly has happened? Firstly, the integrated master is not recognized to graduates with qualifications from foreign universities, and there is the relative equivalence and recognition of their qualifications by the former IATA, now IATA. This has resulted in graduates not having the same rights as graduates of equal titles and lacking qualifications in public notices. Secondly, in the course of the course, the undue delay in granting the integrated master, with the responsibility of the Government, to university departments in the country which meet requirements and relate, as I said before, to the graduates of the Department of Musical Studies of the Ionian University, when the corresponding sections have been recognized for a year, so that their degree is not taken into account as an integrated master in their ranking for appointments to primary and secondary education, since the tables of the AEP have already been drawn up. For these graduates, instead of having legislation on subsequent submission of the remaining documents and on retrospective counting them in the notices of the AACC, the matter is left to consider objections from the AACC itself, which, as a non-legislative body, will be called upon to decide on objections, by necessarily applying the provisions of the CCPs. I will also present to you in the minutes the opinion of the Legal Council of State, November 12, 2019, forty-two pages, which is clear and says that "for reasons of legal certainty an explicit provision of legislation would be required". It is not taken into account either. The treatment of both cases is an unjust and unequal treatment of both graduates between the different schools at national level and the foreign graduates. You know that the JRC has disagreed with the Gavroglou law, as recently as with your own bill, the New Democracy. We are now experiencing the lessons of the anti-educational arrangements on the basis of the Bologna guidelines, which dictates the broadening of the categorisation of diplomas and graduates, which objectively lead to it - to say so - to the squabbling of the working rights of all graduates, even more disconnects the diploma from the profession, where everyone will compete for a job with equal rights, to be caught in conditions of uninsured and poorly paid work in the name of competition. So we ask you, Minister: what measures does the government intend to take to solve these injustices, firstly, for the real and substantial equivalence of foreign graduates' diplomas, for which it has been recognised at a responsible state rate or also for integrated master degrees? Secondly, adjusting the allocations for recruitment and progression procedures to the public and where else it is necessary. Thirdly, for counting retrospectively on the notices of the Ionian musicians as integrated master and their equal ranking with the graduates of the musicians of the other universities. Finally, we are asking for immediate measures to be taken to ensure access to the profession, on the sole condition of the degree, without additional courses, certificates and training. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Synergy. The Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Dygalakis, will answer. Mr. Digalakis, good evening, good week. You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u194	Good evening. Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, you actually have two legs of your question. I'll answer both. I will begin first of all by recognizing foreign degrees as a single and unbroken subject integrated master. I should first like to highlight the conditions for recognition of equivalence and equivalence by the IATP. In your question you are making, I would say, the logical mistake to consider that, if a foreign degree has been considered equal and equivalent to an internal degree, it should be automatically recognised as an integrated master. I will explain why this is not right. The recognition of the equivalence and equivalence of the IATP does not imply automatic recognition of the qualifications of foreign students as integrated master and this, to see it, needs to see the criteria for equivalence and equivalence of qualifications abroad. The rate is expected to be given, when the duration of study, the process of teaching and learning and the conditions of evaluation, promotion and graduation of students meet the requirements of our country's universities. The correspondence presupposes that the person concerned will have been successfully taught and examined in the basics - and I stress the word 'basic' - lessons in the similar curriculum of national education. If we now look at the conditions for recognition of qualifications as an integrated master, they are different. In other words, lasting ten academic six months, lessons to be founded in the basic sciences - and these are usually given in the first and second years - a torso courses throughout the cognitive object, usually from the second to the fourth year, deepening and integrating at a high level of knowledge - these are selection courses that are usually a postgraduate level in the last years of studies - and lastly, a degree or diplomatic work, lasting at least one academic semester. All these conditions which I mentioned are not provided for in the conditions for recognition of equivalence and equivalence. This work, obviously, if one considers the other criteria, cannot be just bibliographical. Now, in addition to these reasons, IATA's criteria for recognition of equivalence and equivalence relate to the time of adoption of the act and may not cover the criteria of the integrated master, because the integrated master is a common undergraduate and postgraduate title. The postgraduate degrees in the IATP are not recognised as equivalent except as equivalent and, in addition, should be introduced into the IATP legislation and the integrated master's degree. Therefore, all these reasons explain why it is not automatic recognition of a qualification of study abroad as an integrated master, but legislative arrangements are needed which are our intention to move on to them. If I don't take your time, I'll answer the second question in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Synthraki, you have three minutes and you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u196	Minister, I am holding what you said at the end that your intention is to solve it by legislation and to resolve it as quickly as possible. But I understand something else. I understand we've already been in a time of multi-classified degrees. That's the point. Because these people spent, went abroad for their own reasons, graduated. From there the integrated master is recognized, it is not recognized in Greece and you obviously put them in such a categorization when the four-year study in Greece was automatically converted into five-year-olds. You know these problems in the first place. Isn't that right? The foreign graduates were directly mobilized, directly from 2018 until today, with cross-references, extrajudicial, continuous calls to the Ministry. You have often refused to see them in your office. You're going to tell me the problem was caused by the SYRIZA government which also legislated. That's true. But your responsibilities are on both sides that the problem has not been solved for three years. That's the point. SYRIZA just caused it, you perpetuate it. In other words, "from Anna to Kaiafa". The Ministry referred it to the IATAP. The IOTAP in November 2018, acting unanimously, is returning it to the government because of non-determination for the government to legislate on this matter. And two months later, January 2019, the Ministry reflys the ball to the IATAP. In July 2019, election eves then, the SYRIZA Government responds to the extrajudicial complaint of graduates that it will take action to resolve the issue. Nothing again. We also had a private debate a year ago, and then you replied to me exactly what you said and now, that this case must be solved by legislation. But it's been a year. Now you say it again. I hope that this will happen not after a couple of years, so that we can deal with the problem. We had also tabled a relevant question, of course, in January 2020, which was not answered. And without this loose end having been solved, you proceeded to 3A/2019 special education teachers' notice and general education for permanent appointment, and as a result these people should receive twenty molecules less than the Greek universities' colleagues assigned to them integrated master in retrospective power. The result is foreign graduates, many of whom work in public education as substitutes, but also as permanent teachers at all levels, while having the act of equivalence and equivalent recognition by the IATP, lose these twenty molecules corresponding to two and a half years of pre-service and fulfil the conditions for permanent appointment, while those who are already permanently losing their graduation. Similar tragedies have now arisen with graduates of the music studies of the Ionian University. You said you'd answer me in a moment. I just want to say that these people have been inconvenienced for ten months to identify them with the integrated master and to measure molecules in the ADP provisional tables for recruitment as a substitute for the new school year. The Ionian University had sent you an early request for recognition, as far as I know, on 5-8-2019 and while you promised them that their matter would be resolved, I understand that you ignored it. In the middle of Christmas, however, that is, five months later, you are publishing an ASE/2019 notice. You recognized them, of course, four months after the deadline for the AACC's notice, but you have not retroactively recognized them the right to add this recognition to the requests they have already made. You realise that all this is now unjustified. It's unheard of. In other words, with notices from the AACC, after so long as people are seated and anxiously waiting to see what is going to happen, you realize that they are living an incredible suffering. And no more, we're also entering a process of social automation. Because the others, not the others, have these rights too, in order to recognize the integrated master. The essence is - and I conclude with this, Mr President - that the categorisation of universities, degrees and graduates forms part of a more general Euro-Union strategy which the previous government has implemented with the so-called mobility process, the process of matching qualifications, which is multiclassified by degrees, decoupling them even more from the profession and all that in order to privatise the operation of universities. This is now being extended to teachers. In other words, it is not just at the level of higher education. It extends to teachers. The person studying, that is, has no guaranteed access to the profession that corresponds to his studies and work with full rights to it guaranteed by receiving the degree. We would once again invite you, on the one hand, to proceed directly with the resolution of the issue of graduates abroad, as well as the music studies of the Ionian University retrospectively to give them the right to make supplementary papers so that they can benefit from favourable arrangements in relation to the notices of the AACC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Synergy. Minister, please just a minute to make a statement to this House. The Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, Labour and Social Affairs, Justice, Home Affairs and State submitted a draft law on 29-6-2020: ‘Company governance of public limited companies, modern capital market, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2017/828 of the European Parliament and of the Council, measures to implement Regulation (EU) 2017/1131 and other provisions’. Mr. Secretary, you have three minutes at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u198	Mr Colleague, you mentioned that a year ago you had discussed these matters with me. Obviously, a year ago I was not even a Member of Parliament or a State Secretary of State for Education. But I will agree with you that we really have the illusions of SYRIZA which are difficult, especially in education and higher education.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u199	That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u200	But I would ask you not to say again that I do not accept some people in my office. I have also received the specific foreign graduates' representatives. Everyone in the universities knows that my phone and office is always open and I accept nothing that I see no one to hear their requests. I would now like to refer to the second point which I left in my protology concerning the Department of Musical Studies of the Ionian University. First of all, you refer to the distinction that exists with the other two Departments of Music Studies in particular of the NRP and the Aristotle University. Here, however, I wanted to stress the following for these two sections: the Department of Musical Studies of the ERCEA took a decision of a consortium starting the procedure for requesting recognition as an integrated master in October 2017. The recognition decision was adopted in September 2018, i.e. eleven months later. The Department of Music Studies of Aristotle took a call for recognition of the diploma as integrated master in December 2018. The Recognition Decision was adopted in May 2019. Now, the Department of Musical Studies of the Ionian Sea has started this process much later, for its own reasons, I do not condemn it. He may have judged that he wasn't mature or that he didn't agree or anything. So he took the Senate's decision two years after the NRP and one year after Aristotle, i.e. July 2019, and submitted the request to the Ministry in August 2019. The Recognition Decision was adopted at approximately the same time as that of the EMCDDA in June 2020. There has indeed been a delay, but in matters of lack of competence. It was a mistake, and if we were to keep it in a complex administrative act, it would jeopardise the outcome of the whole operation. However, the essential thing is that the AACC tender, as you rightly point out. It has already been clarified by the Minister that a recommendation has been made in this regard to the AACC, in order that, when they are pending documents without the responsibility of the candidates, they may be accepted at a later stage. This procedure for the submission of supporting documents will therefore take place after the provisional tables before the definitive versions are issued. Here I will tell you that, if necessary, legislation will also be made on this matter in order to get the molecules of the Department of Music Studies of the Ionian Sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u202	Mr President, there is a misunderstanding...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u203	Mr. Synthraki, you're embarrassing me. That's out of order. Is that what the Undersecretary said at first?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u204	Yeah, if you'll excuse me, I'd like the reason to solve the misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u205	You're right here. If that's not the case, you're right. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u206	Thank you. I have analysed a specific background within which the specific reference I made in private to the Minister was included. That was a year ago, ten years ago, nine months ago? Anyway, I can't say for sure. But this meeting was here, and indeed at the point where you are, Minister. This meeting took place and I referred to the specific problem, and the Minister replied and I think he responded positively at that time, so that is not something that should affect him. This conversation has taken place. Now, if he was in a year or so ago or in eight or nine months, we won't stick there. I'm saying that to solve any misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u207	However, what I have to say is that the Undersecretary does have his door open and raise his phone. I know that very well. The seventh question under number 842/22-6-2020 will be discussed in the context of the second question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece.Giannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Direct resolution of the problems faced by students at the University of Western Attica by conducting the examination." Mr. Delia, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u208	Thank you very much, Mr President. The issue is extremely serious as well as topical. It concerns the examination of students and in particular the examination of students at the University of West Attica, which was the university that came from the merger of the Athens and Piraeus TEIs about two years ago. It has not been enough for students, as for all the people, of course, with the horn pandemic and quarantine, but in any case these students - I am focusing specifically on students at the University of West Attica - are facing serious problems with their examination, which at the moment we are talking about is evolving. As you can see, Minister, this fills children with stress and insecurity and I would add that it creates financial problems, because today is not the time to extend their studies with what is happening in society, with unemployment, with all the financial problems that families face. The University of West Attica announced the program of inquiries - and to be clearer about tele-examination - which will only last three weeks and within this very short time the students should be prepared to give their lessons. In the meantime, there was no early warning. We are now talking about an institution where there is a very large number of students who work alongside their studies in order to meet the cost of study which, as everyone knows, is very high in our country. But there are other problems, Minister. It goes without saying that each student and every student has all the necessary technical equipment to meet the needs of this tele-examination. It is not at all obvious that these students have the computer that they must have with all technical means or have the appropriate internet connection to enable them to monitor and participate in this telematics. The students with his clubs have been mobilized several times, went to the pre-regions, the schools, the departments, and so far they have not been answered. There is great anxiety and great upset especially at the University of Western Attica. We convey their agony and demands to you, to the Ministry and the State Secretary in charge, Mr. Digalakis. So we ask you to tell us what measures are to be taken to extend the tele-examination system, whose scope, in the way it is done, is suffocating. The Ministry must ensure that all necessary technical equipment is provided to students who do not have it and open up the computer centres available to universities. In order to understand those who are following us, I will say that computer centres are the centres for the joint use of students, for those who do not have these means. The student's personal data must also be protected. I'm going to go back to my dentistry on this. Make a double examination in September for all students to deal with all the problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr. Delis. The Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Mr. Digalakis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Delis, I am delighted with the timely question you ask me, because it is the first time that we have been discussing this academic semester toward its completion. Our universities have actually succeeded in a feat. In these pandemic conditions, they were adapted very quickly and the examinations were given with very great success. Over 96% of the courses were given via the Internet. I really want to congratulate the entire academic community, the administrations of universities and the teaching staff who have been able to and organised distance teaching in such short time, but also our students who embraced distance teaching, so that we are now in a position to say that in the six-month period it is not lost, that the exams are done and that our students are coming out of this adventure and that our university has won a lot from this test. As far as the organisation of university studies is concerned, we have enabled universities, in addition to standard methods of examination, to examine students and by remote methods. Why did we do that? Since the six-month teaching was completed by distance methods and dozens, if not hundreds of thousands of students remained in their home places, away from the universities, you can see that it would be absurd to ask for moves to the universities to be examined by living. One of the prisoners. Second, how did we do that? We made a ministerial decision that told the universities: "If you choose to give tests and by remote methods, you should pay attention to two things. One is to make a decision of the Senate, which will describe how it is guaranteed and guaranteed the inconsistency of the examination and - secondly - what measures you take to protect your personal data." These decisions, which were very detailed and in the case of the University of West Attica, were obliged to post them at the "DIAGY" in order to have transparency and to notify them to the Ministry and the national authority. You refer to your timely question some complaints from students that I would say are vague, but I will dwell on the way in which you specialize. You request an extension of the examination and a double examination in September. I will not hide behind the self-employed, although the academic diary is the responsibility of the University Senate in the context of the self-employed, but I will tell you my opinion: we have cultivated the wrong impression that the universities are exam centres. We've become the university exams, the January, June, September exams, to occupy a lot of the academic diary. Our universities are not exam centres, Mr. Delis. The examinations are to testify to the knowledge of the student who is certified throughout the six months. The student is at the university to find out and will be evaluated throughout the six months. We are therefore totally opposed to this issue. I had dealt with it too many times in my term as a dean. We made sure that the examinations were short and that we had the time necessary for teaching, because this is a matter for the university. He's in college, the student's going to find out, not to run tests. As far as the dual examination of September is concerned, I will add here that we do not know what the epidemiological situation will be in September to say that we need to go into a double examination or do not need to go to the university. I've left some unanswered questions. I'll answer my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Delis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u212	It is the last question anyway, Mr President. I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u213	Okay, I'll give you time, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u214	I'll try to be brief and not to gloat. Look, the Minister opened the debate, the question of distance teaching at universities, which happened anyway. But you know very well that he can't completely replace the university process. There are workshops which cannot be done by tele­vision. We are not saying that tele-education is not an auxiliary tool, but it cannot replace, as we have said, the whole of university teaching. The examination can be done in two or three ways. In other words, it can be done as teletext, it can be done by oral examination or it can also be done with written work. As far as we know, students do not rule out any of these three options since they first have the technical means or the necessary time. Because you can't ask a student to hand you a job in a week and ten days. You understand that the schedules should be opened a little bit. That's why the first request we put in and the kids and students put it is to give an extension. And we are not talking about any huge extensions, for a week of extension we are talking about in the examination. In other words, students cannot mobilize, and I beg your pardon, to listen, as the French said two hundred years ago, Maria Antoinette says to them "if you don't have to eat, eat pancakes", say to them, "because you don't have the technical means to look at them." That's not an answer today. They don't have any kids the technical means, what do we do? So the university itself must open up the centre of computers and the Ministry to assume its responsibilities. You said about the vague complaints. I beg your pardon, Minister, there is very specific complaints. There is a large number of students at the School of Health and Welfare, in the U.S.A., who have been excluded from telex. Now what can we say? Shall we name names? It's a big number. In fact, in several schools and at this university, students were asked "do you agree with these terms?" that is, whoever does not have the means to be excluded from the procedure? And those students who made the mistake of saying they didn't agree because they didn't have the technical means, they were excluded. In any case, it is not possible for children to give their hopes to those teachers who show a good mood to help children in these exceptional circumstances with an oral examination. Not everyone does. In any case, we have been given an extension here, from what we have learned, in recent days. It has twenty-seven departments of the University of West Attica and only one of the twenty-seven were extended, an extension of five days. Why not give all the departments, breathe, take some courage, and the children, read, prepare a little better? I also wanted to make a comment on personal data, because I said I would mention it. In the Accounting Department - and I quote it in the question - we will ask some teachers, not all of them, not all of them do it, from students to download a program that allows the monitor to see what records are on the personal computer of the person concerned. Excuse me very much, but this cannot be accepted. This is a very serious matter. And of course you should know, I imagine the Ministry knows, that several times when too many students fall, the system is kneeling from overloading and not working. These are very practical issues. We don't think we're looking for the sky with the stars. We also ask for a small extension and assistance to children to be able to complete their examination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Mr. Dygalakis has the floor for three minutes as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u216	Mr. Delia, you mentioned that he asked the university for a student's agreement as to whether it agrees to be examined by these methods and you spoke of exclusion. Because I saw the decision of the West Attica University of Senate, he didn't mention it anywhere. It says whether the student agrees to be identified by the method set out in the senator's decision, which is posted in "DIAGY" just as I said in my protology for protecting the whole process. So the student is not asking whether he agrees with the remote examination, but whether he agrees with the way he is identified and even gives him alternatives, if I remember well, if he does not agree to be examined in another way. There is therefore no exclusion. As far as open rooms for computers are concerned, yes, you're right. In fact, we had foreseen it in his ministerial decision at the beginning of May that, from 25 May, when the laboratories and clinics were going back to work and then the examination, universities could open up and open the computer rooms, on the basis of all students who need it to go to these rooms and examine them with the public computers. Now at this university, in PAID, according to the method of examination it has chosen and in the response it gave and the dean is enough for a smart phone to participate in distance education. But I wanted to close by going to the general theme of distance education. Distance education you rightly said that it cannot replace education in a physical presence, but what it can do and must do is complement traditional teaching. You know, the university is a place where each student's program enables him to shape it on the basis of his or her interests and the specialty he wants to get. Therefore, it is only natural that, for example, on a student’s schedule you may have courses that overlap. Therefore, remote methods and the use of electronic methods come to complement traditional methods so that the student can attend the lessons he wants in time, because you know that attendance at the university is not compulsory. I am not saying this in order to encourage students not to go to classes, on the contrary, they must take advantage of their time, but they are given the opportunity to shape their programme more flexiblely to adapt the programme to their own interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u217	Thank you both. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-29-S2-commons.u218	With the consent of this House at 21: 04 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 30 June 2020 at 10:00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
