ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The meeting's on. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 15-12-20 powers, its minutes of 15 December 2020, the minutes of which were approved by the Bureau, the minutes of the SGP, the SGP and the SGP meetings of 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 December 2020, including the debate and the vote of the budget]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament, Konstantinos Kyranakis, MP B3' South Athens, the following:]] [[A. PRESENTATION OF REFERENCES]] [[To enter page 2a]] B. REQUIREMENTS FOR SUPPLEMENTING IN BUILDERS
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before entering the debate today's topical and urgent debate, let me first announce to the House the topical and urgent debate on Friday 18 December 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 251/14-12/2020 topical question by Deputy East Attica of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Panagiotis (Panos) Skouriakou to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The Government and the Ministry refuse to resolve the problems of transport in East Attica". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 249/12-12-2020, raised by MP B1' North Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Government practice in attracting serious international investors'. 3. The question by No. 267/14-12-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The scholarships of the IKY Foundation." B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 252/14-12/2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Thirding, repatriation and delays for the North Road Axis of Crete (BOAK)". The 258/14-12-2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "MATA Synod cut electricity to abundant families in St. Varvara". 3. The 253/14-12/2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Movement of Change Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The uninterrupted functioning of the new Messaras Museum". 4. The 255/14-12-2020 topical question by the MEP of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "The lack of liquidity drowns small businesses in the country." In his letter the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs also informs the House of today's topical questions. We will begin with the third with No 248/11-12-2020 topical question from the Southern Athens Department of Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr.Theanos Fotio, to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Thousands of beneficiaries of the European Aid Fund to the Most deprived of food and first-demand species that are entitled to benefit from the Minimum Guaranteed Income (EEA) (e.g. (CRLs) in the context of a health and economic crisis.’ The current question will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs Domna - Maria Michalidou. Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, as you know, in 2015 the Government of New Democracy handed us over a humanitarian crisis in progress, with a million people in impoverishment, for whom it had not done anything by the last three months. Then he showed the guaranteed social income for thirty thousand people with 30 million in thirteen municipalities. Immediately thereafter, the European Fund for the the most deprived, i.e. without regional partnerships, to implement it without a food distribution mechanism. Within 2015 we launched food competitions of 26 million. We started distribution. We joined TESA for the first time - European originality, best practice - fresh foods: meat, chicken, cheese, vegetables. We have organised fifty-seven social partnerships. We connected the TAVA to the KEVA in 2017. Today you call it'minimum guaranteed'. In 2019, there are four hundred twenty-eight thousand fellow citizens within nine months and there have been two hundred eighty-three distributions, as I know from the figures presented in a conference in October 2019. But, as the country enters the pandemic, the distribution rather than multiplying, is diminishing. You've made fewer distributions, as I'll explain. The outrageous thing is that since you became government, five regional units have taken nothing, six regional units have taken food, ten regional units to take since July. Look, there are conditions of inequality, as you understand, among citizens in extreme poverty. I know, Minister, from my previous term of office, the management problems of European programmes, such as the TEVA. That's why I didn't come here to argue, but to help. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You're asking us what you'd do. Within the two Lockdowns, 15 million school meals were not given. So we'd give it for the most. Secondly, in order to be able to cope with the humanitarian crisis, we issued the solidarity card, a prepaid bank card, which was going through all the stores. It was only for food. When we took her to Europe, they told us that this is an excellent innovation. We have asked for it to be implemented. They said to us: 'When we change the regulation'. They've changed the regulation. On April 23rd, because of the pandemic, they change the regulation. I was expecting you, at least, to apply the card that would solve your hands. So I ask - and I am done, Mr President - why are there not sufficient food distributions available to the TDIA in many municipalities and how do you guarantee with food and essential goods the beneficiaries affected by the pandemic? Secondly, I ask you whether you intend to replace the system of supply and distribution of the EIDA with a prepaid bank supply card of these kinds from all the markets, as we had done in 2015-2016. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u4	Madam Secretary, here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Fotiou, I have carefully read your question and I am really glad that you give me the opportunity to come to the House and to present to you and the colleagues details of the program of the "Food Food Aid Fund", especially to show you how it worked and how it continues to work within the extremely difficult conditions of the pandemic. That is what you are asking for in both your written questions. So you say that - according to complaints - there are no distributions of food and material aid to beneficiaries. However, you do not specify the complaints, nor do you specify where and in which municipalities this is done. On the contrary, you provide a number of figures, from figures, for distributions of TEVA in 2017, 2018 and 2019. That is right, and knowing it itself, I would say, firsthand, that for this whole period the trend of distribution is growing. But then without giving us any specific documentation and without invoking certain specific figures, you are talking about the dilution of these distributions until they are completely interrupted. But here you are wrong, and the mistake is not a simple claim on my part. The data from the competent management authority, which I will submit for information to this House, are disgusting to you. Be careful, this is the same information you refer to in the question by 2019. So there's no question of their credibility. In view of this, therefore, within the very difficult period of pandemic, the program has not only continued properly, but has been intensified. The tonnes of food distributed up to November 2020 exceed the total tonnes distributed over a whole year. I repeat, the 2020 tone by November is more than the tone that has been distributed in total in 2019. In fact, 7% more tons of food before the end of the 12-month period. I am tabling the relevant table in detail of the tonnes distributed from 2016 to November this year. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domna - Maria Michailidou, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] Almost eleven million tonnes of food, in fact 10.7 tonnes, were given as aid for our economically weak fellow citizens by November compared with a total of 10 tonnes throughout 2019. Even more impressive, however, is the increase by piece, by kind. 2020 - and again only until November - the increase was of 12.5%, compared to the total 12-month previous year for which we have data. And these elements, as you know, are the same as those you submitted from the HEDN. [[At this point the end of the speech bell is ringing by the Secretary-General.]] I don't want a minute, Mr. President. I now come to the distributions which you refer to in your question. That's right, and that's where you're saying that distribution is growing year after year. You only make some little mistakes in the numbers. And to give precise figures, there were two hundred and twenty-two distributions for the year 2019, two hundred eighty-two distributions, for the year 2020 - the eleven months to date - three hundred two distributions. This last number you do not include in your question and the truth is that it completely overthrows your claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u6	Here, Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Undersecretary, I really did not come, as I said, to make a fuss about the numbers, because there are very few numbers - as you know - and the absorption of TEVA very low. You know that very well. We're at 2021 to 25%, if I remember well. The data, of course, I don't have them, because they're not accessible to the U.S.H.A. But I have the complaints and I shall refer to them. In particular, I would like to say something to you: I am usually questioning the information you give me - I will take it now - because you have said something in the budget that was inaccurate, which you may have the opportunity today to correct. You said, that they increased in 2020 compared to 2019, that the beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income and you gave them thirteen allowances in 2020, - the thirteenth was Christmas gift - instead of twelve in 2019, while we know from the OECD budget that in 2020 you have spent less money than EUR 6 million since 2019. How did you do that? It's only a miracle. In order not to go to religious stories, this is a miracle of the Mitsotakis government. In other words, with EUR 6 million less you paid thirteen allowances instead of twelve, and at the same time increased the beneficiaries, given that neither the conditions nor the conditions have changed. The division doesn't come out, it doesn't come out. You can do it. But with all due respect, my complaints are as follows, which is why I looked into them: Indeed, Corinthia: seven thousand fifty-seven beneficiaries, no distribution in 2020, nineteen distributions in 2019. Phosphorus: Six thousand ninety-four beneficiaries, no distribution in 2020, seven in 2019. Pieria: five thousand four hundred thirty nine beneficiaries, no distribution in 2020. Mr President, I don't have much time, I could go far. I'm going to the thick numbers: Aetolokarnania: twenty thousand seven hundred thirty-three beneficiaries, no distribution in 2020, five distributions in 2019. Attica, central: Six thousand eighty-three, seventy-three, one in 2020, nine in 2019. Achaia: Twenty-eighty-eighty-five, one distribution in 2020, eighteen in 2019. Ioannina: Four thousand seven hundred two. It's what I looked for. I don't have access to the TEVA. I've been through one by one. And in the South, where I am elected: 12 thousand seven hundred forty-eight, three distributions in 2020, nine in 2019. In the Municipality of Athens: thirty one thousand people, three distributions in 2020, five in 2019. And Lesvos: A distribution in 2020, eighteen in 2019.So, Minister, I tell you with my experience, that the only solution you have and we have in front of us as a country is the solidarity card. I shall table, Mr President, the change in the EIDA regulation that I have invoked. I got her here. The Official Journal of the European Union 24-4-2020 in Article 1(5) states: ‘In Article 23, ‘food and basic material infrastructure may be provided to the most deprived persons directly or indirectly, such as by means of coupons or cards in electronic or other form, provided that such coupons, cards or other forms can be redeemed only with food or basic material assistance’. It's just the prepaid card of solidarity that we gave in 2015 and 2016. I know you're intolerant of what's signed by SYRIZA. But, Minister, I don't care about you taking care of the new card. Take it off. It's the only thing that's gonna save us in this period. Tell me one more thing: Do you agree with the Pissaridis project, all the benefits, and those relating to the middle layers, to join one?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u8	All right, Mrs Fotio, let's not make a general policy now. Yesterday's the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u10	Here, Mrs. Michaelidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Fotou, you have raised many more questions than you have written. I will try again to answer them as briefly as I can. With regard to the distributions and specific municipalities you mentioned about the absence of distributions there, as you can see from the first hand - and I repeat that we are not here to disagree, but to discuss creatively - when in 2018 the TEVA distributions were two hundred and twenty-two and 2020, within eleven months, are three hundred two, then if we reverse our positions and go back to 2018 in a hypothetical scenario like this, I would be here for one hour to say city names, one after the other. When we have an increase of 30% within 11 months and not 12 months, you understand that the municipalities that would have been excluded in the case of a much lower absorption two years ago would be much more and we would be here reading names of the municipalities, one after another. Now, as far as what you know about distributions is concerned, one of the reasons that has increased in the pandemic - and here I should like to thank the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr Livanios - is that we have succeeded and organised in such a way as to be able to do so with the municipality, so that apart from the traditional type of distribution, distributions are carried out at home, 'drive through' distributions, i.e., the turnout of the beneficiary with vehicle and delivery of the package intact, but also traditions with individual appointments. That is why we have succeeded and have in a very difficult year, a much higher absorption than a TEVA that we received. As far as our distribution practice is concerned, I can tell you with optimism, even with pride, that we have succeeded and even paid tribute to the European Commission. In the report, which I will also present, in particular, at the FEAD Case Studies: Adding FEAD - funded measures during the Coronavirus pandemic, what the European Commission is doing is that it congratulates Greece on the practice of distributing, in particular, TEVA, into the pandemic. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domna - Maria Michailidou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And the truth is that it not only congratulates Greece on this, but congratulates all six countries: Greece, the Czech Republic, Italy, Lithuania, Portugal, France and Sweden. So for something you are invoking us is a very good opportunity here in Parliament - thanking the Interior Ministry again - to say that all together as government and with local government have managed to have a very effective distribution within these difficult times. Now, with regard to the prepaid card and the minimum guaranteed income, yes, it is true that the national resources of their minimum guaranteed income have already been channelled in such a way that the allowance, the minimum guaranteed income, go in cases where they receive more than EUR 200, 50% on a prepaid card and the other 50% on direct financial assistance to the bank account of the beneficiaries. However, as I am sure you are aware - and everyone present in the Greek Parliament today - that is national resources and European resources. European funds - in particular the ESF and the EBRD - have specific rules, specific conditions for which each country can use them. In particular, for the use of a basic material assistance card, there is indeed an amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the TDI and the European Social Fund, the ESCF. However, the procedures have not really been completed so that it can be implemented not at national level, but at European level such a measure can be implemented. We expect the relevant procedures to come out and, of course, like the other European countries, once this is centrally European, we will be very happy to follow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u12	Good. We move on to the second with number 245/11-12-2020 on the first question of the first cycle of SYRIZA - the Progressive Alliance Mr.Christorou Vernardakis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The supervision exercise by the Ministry of the Interior (YPA) in the Municipality of Athens". The Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, Mr. Theodoros Lebanon, will answer. Here, Mr. Bernardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Secretary-General, first of all I thank you for your presence, and I sincerely believe that we will be able to have a constructive dialogue, because I think you are much better aware of the issues of self-government. We therefore have two issues concerning the Interior Ministry, for which you will answer us. There is a huge issue in the supervision it currently exercises on matters relating to the Municipality of Athens. The first concerns the famous management company of the National Garden and the hill of Philippi. You had passed with amendment the transition of the Philippi hill management to the Municipality of Athens. However, the hill Philopapou has been declared archaeological site as a whole since 2008. Of course and with later legal status, it has become even greater credibility than the first regulation of 2008 and is subject to a special management regime. Despite the fact that it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, you, as the Ministry of Interior, legislated the transition to the Municipality of Athens and the public limited company it set up. The question is, now, how has it come? The Municipality of Athens yesterday announces the establishment of the Anonymous Management and Rating Company of the National Garden and of Lofus Filippi. The question is how the hill of Philippi was transferred to the competence and management of the Municipality of Athens, under which status. You abolished the archaeological law? Did you repeal the 2008 amendment and ministerial decisions? Have you abolished the 2019 laws? That's a question. The second question concerns the 'big walk' and the costs incurred. You know very well that we have a decision by the Council of State, No 1992/2020, rejecting all the basic arguments put forward by the Municipality of Athens for the derogating from the value of two million euros. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What responsibilities did the Ministry exercise? Here we have a derogating act, which - to justify the Municipality of Athens as well - is based on a joint ministerial decision linking the actions of the Municipality of Athens with the pandemic and comes the Council of State and says that this whole story is unconstitutional. Here, therefore, raises a huge issue of exercise on a second major issue, that of supervision by the Ministry of Interior in actions, acts, contracts carried out by a municipality. That's all for now. I'll come back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u14	Good. Here, Mr Levanie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. The truth is that I am a little surprised by the question, because today we are learning that the Ministry of Interior is supervising the municipalities. I'm surprised, because one of the right things we've done for at least the last few years is the release of the Ministry of Interior from the OTA supervision control. Well, that's a good thing. Let me tell you anyway. If you had such intentions to exercise the Ministry of Interior, the Minister of Interior, supervision of the OTAs, when you brought 'CLISTEN', why didn't you legislate? On the contrary, you maintained the model of the Coordinator of the Decentralised Management of OTA Surveillance - which was not completed - and the verification of the legality of the municipality's actions is carried out by the coordinator of the decentralised administration, who have been acted in passing through a tendering procedure in the previous government. So the Interior Minister does not exercise any supervision. Indeed, in your question you make a reasonable leap. You say it has the main task of planning and implementing public policies in the area of supervision, as provided for by the Ministry's presidential decree, and immediately afterwards you say that the exercise of state supervision in OTAs is central. The Ministry of Interior does not oversee the OTAs. We now go to the particular issues that you have raised. First theme for the hill of Philippi and for the National Garden. Firstly, the National Garden - the President who has served in local government can assure you - has been a separate legal person for so many years, it has been incorporated into the municipality at some point and now by law a company has been set up for its management. Filippi hill did not pass the property of the municipality. I would remind you - you know - that cleanliness, for example, on the hill of Philippi is made by the Municipality of Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u16	And not just cleanliness.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u17	And not just. Almost guarding and electric lighting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u18	Fire protection and all that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u19	Therefore, there is an anonymous company belonging to 100% of the Municipality of Athens, its shares are non-transferable, established by law. The city council is coming recently and makes a decision on its statute. This decision will go to the coordinator of the decentralised legality of acts if they comply with the Statute. Obviously, the archaeological themes and the protection of antiquities or anything else are not affected. It's a vehicle for better service, if you want, and upgrade space, areas. On the second theme of the 'big walk', we also often talk about self-interest. It's time to talk about it and practically. The Municipality of Athens made a decision, based on a ministerial decision, to complete a temporary project on Eleftherios Venizelos Avenue, the University. The three contracts were concluded by the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors, which is the Court of Auditors, has essentially been audited by the relevant budgetary authority. They've been approved. These transactions were excluded as a result of the compulsory checks on legality by decentralised bodies. This has been done for reasons of speed, because if there is an urgent situation, there is no legality check. On the other hand, the review, the administrative action, the application to decentralised legal review could be made. As far as I know, it didn't happen. The "Open City", for example, which has led a very worthy man, Mr. Helios, has not appealed to the decentralized to control the actions of the Economic Commission. So S.H.E.'s decision. It is contrary to what you have written to me that'rejected the main argument of the Municipality of Athens for a derogation from the conclusion of economic contracts'. He doesn't say anything like that. The S.H.E.'s decision. It says that they do not actually constitute means of restricting the free movement of persons, but that they are purely traffic regulations. This is S.H.E.'s decision. She's absolutely respected. When a topical question was raised by Mr Skourletis about a month ago, the Minister of the Interior answered Mr Theodorikos and said that it is absolutely respected and that no new legislation on this matter will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Bernardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the question of who is supervising. Has the coordinator of decentralised administration exercised his legal oversight and his legal duties? Don't you have a check on the coordinator? It's a first basic question. With regard to the second issue concerning the Philippi hill, take note of it. The Ministry of Interior is coming - and that is what I am saying to you, and I really do wonder why it is not understood - and it incurs competence from another Ministry of Culture. What does the law say? That the exercise of the administration and management of such buildings on archaeological sites, including the collection, management, disposal of revenue by the State, is only carried out by the Ministry of Culture and other legal persons governed by public law under the supervision of the Ministry of Culture. Here you have a huge issue. You come as an internal ministry and you legislate on behalf of another ministry. If the Ministry of Culture did so in cooperation with the Municipality of Athens - which, in fact, is involved in some responsibilities, say safeguarding and so on. - it would be something that would be in the context of legality. But here, you don't have that. Who transferred the management of the hill of Filippi, a total of archaeological site, to the Municipality of Athens? One thing is that. We now move on to the issue of 'big walk'. First of all, I would like to say that Mr Theodorikos replied that the Court of Auditors had carried out audits. What's the truth? The truth is that from 31-7-2019, on the basis of your own provision, there is no preventive control by the Court of Auditors on the expenditure of the EBRD. Therefore, there was no preventive control over the costs of the ‘great walk’. The question, however, is that exceptionally, checks were carried out on whether there is legal credit, if this is provided for by law and, indeed, this was legal. It was provided for by law, by the joint ministerial decision you made, which linked the extraordinary treaty to the pandemic crisis. That is what comes in and delivers the Council of State. So we have a series of distortions to call it good faith. The question is: What will the Ministry of Interior, on the basis of the decision of the Council of State, on the basis of the archaeological law, do to correct these derogations? This is the basic question, not if supervision is carried out in the repressive sense of the term, but if the institutions of the state intervene and regulate a regulatorial field or leave it to a general provision of misconduct.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Lebanon, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u23	Firstly, to make things clear, preventive control by the Court of Auditors has not been abolished by this government. The previous government has abolished him and, if you want me, it has done so, because it has created a great insecurity, not to the elected representatives, but to the staff of self-government. So, you said it yourself, on 31 July 2019, abolished preventive control. The government was sworn on July 9th. He obviously didn't legislate before he even took a vote of confidence. You did it. In my opinion - we have also discussed this with Mr Karathanasopoulos - it was a shield of protection that preventive control was mainly for the staff of the municipalities and regions. Secondly, was there any change in the ownership of Philippi? Furthermore, if I remember correctly, this amendment to Law 4674 was signed by the Minister for Culture, as a co-president. There was no transfer of competence, co-ownership. Obviously no charges are introduced inside, obviously there is no exploitation of the space, but it was decided - and because we are in close contact with self-government, regardless of party origins - that such a vehicle will serve better than the management of the National Garden and the management of the Philippi hill in terms of the exercise of responsibilities by a public body from the Municipality of Athens. So we have the following. I've heard privatization, I've heard anything else you can imagine about this. When you guys were doing the regeneration of Athens, for example, where you flew and completely outside the Municipality of Athens, did you privatize anything? You decided that this company needed - bad or good, it's another conversation - and you made a company to do the works in the Municipality of Athens, without the Municipality of Athens even knowing. You also remember the relative conversation that had taken place at the time. So I'll tell you two things about supervision. Well, after the celebrations, we will enter into dialogue with the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece and the Committee of the Regions, the new framework of supervision, which is part of the "New Single Code of Government". This is a modern surveillance framework, which will make use of new possibilities, new technologies. It shall be headed by an independent OTA Supervisor. All seven OTA supervisors at the limits of the current decentralised administrations will be supervised not by the Minister of the Interior but by the general supervisor of OTA, who will be an independent and objectively appointed man by a notice of the ODP. Supervision will be carried out in coordination. There will be the Board of Supervisors, which will work. They'll be stationed. We have already adopted positions on the legal support for OTA surveillance. We will go to a new context which will have a characteristic. It will change philosophy in the name of transparency and the speed of processing legality control by the state. Municipal authorities will also be able to make it easier for the project. We will allow an electronic appeal to anyone we consider to be affected. We will allow the decentralized party to reply on the legality of the act. You will see a new context that has a basic philosophy. We will go and support self-government and transparency with an objective OTA monitoring system. We can talk too many hours about this. It's very serious. We will also have the opportunity in the context of the dialogue to discuss both within Parliament and with the collective bodies of government, but in any case monitoring of OTAs is a central issue in the new code, which we will be presenting shortly after holidays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u24	So there's surveillance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u25	You are lucky that I am not the president of the CEDEFOP, or I would tell you what supervision we would accept. The State Secretary, Mr Skrekas, will answer five questions in a row. The first question will be debated with number 241/9-12-2020 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Ioannis Lambropoulos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Possibility of updating the register of farmers and farms by professional farmers who have lost the deadline’. Mr. Lambropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, by decision of the Government, your Ministry, Prime Minister, a truly brave aid is given to olive growers who have never been repeated in previous years. That's right. They're very happy and content. However, part of these olive growers, as the deadline for registering in the register of farmers expired on 30 August 2020, could not be written. Maybe some people have omitted it. It could be their accountants' fault. Many have ruled out the system. These people, who amount to about fifteen thousand throughout Greece - a thousand five hundred in Messinia - will lose this aid. Mr. Undersecretary, you know that too. You are elected in a rural area. Our farmers spend difficult days, like all the Greek people, but more so the olive growers. Prices last year and this year were very low. The edible olives are either not sold or are unclaimed. We must therefore support them. The damage caused by the heat also affected the level of production in May. We must therefore do anything to prevent this great, the significant number of olive growers who either are responsible, or are not responsible, for not getting the help. So the Ministry should do everything possible to rely on these difficult days too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Screka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for your question to the Ministry, in order to enable us to answer this reasonable question created by some olive growers. I'll say they're few. I don't know if the number you mentioned is correct. There are few, therefore, those who cannot join in measure 21 of the rural development programme which we have established. We sent it for approval to the European Commission and approved it. That is what we are giving us the opportunity for the first time, I dare say, to support the olive growers through such a measure of the rural development programme, a direct grant, a subsidy, financial support because of the damage they have suffered from the pandemic. Unfortunately, the pandemic, this unprecedented event which occurs once in a hundred years, has put pressure on the whole of the national economy and society and of course has not left the agricultural sector unaffected. We, therefore, as the Ministry of Rural Development, have designed a measure through the possibility of the European Commission regulation supporting sectors of agriculture which have suffered damage because of the pandemic, the amount of which is EUR 126 million, of which EUR 90-95 million is money that will come from the European Union and the rest is the contribution of Greece's state budget to support the olive growers who have suffered damage. What was the only condition that olive growers should have? It should be the main profession of farmers, as this results from their registration in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Exploitation Register, as this is the case otherwise it is compulsory for producers, in accordance with L.3874/2010. All those who had made statements by IACS in the last year of this crop, all those who are registered in the agricultural and rural holdings registers of the Ministry of Rural Development, are beneficiaries of this financial support. When's the registration? What is the final date to be entered in the register of Farmers and Farmers? Until the end of the submission of tax declarations. Why? Because the register of farmers and farmers receives the following information: firstly, the application of the farmer himself, who submits the relevant documents and thus registers and carries out cross-checks with various public agencies, including the AIA, the Independent Public Revenue Authority, in order to determine whether they are actually beneficiaries. So all farmers who are registered until 31 August in our registers are beneficiaries of the measure. The measure was submitted on 16 October to the European Commission under the conditions that I have told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u29	Minister, the rest in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u30	I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, the terms and conditions of the beneficiaries were specified to be included in the measure. The measure was submitted on 16 October to the European Commission, it was adopted on 10 November, on 17 November the invitation came out, on 2 December the invitation to the beneficiaries ended, on 14 December the deadline for objections was reached because we gave objections and should be paid before Christmas, before the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u31	Thank you. Mr. Lambropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, I believe your answer is regrettable and saddened by this large number of farmers who are staying outside. It could and must now find a solution. This has emerged from the first moment that it was found. With the IACS, as you know, every year farmers go and say. That is, the farmer who didn't say this year had said last year. Very easily could the Ministry help and co-operate with the agricultural cooperative associations and inform you that it was written last year and that it was not written this year. It's not an excuse. Besides, on November 25, I tabled a question to your ministry. On 27 November the Peloponnese Chamber, which expresses many prefectures, pointed out this problem to you. Since then, your Ministry has not given a solution, and the answer you give us today is neither convincing to farmers nor to me personally involved - I say to you - since 25 November, and I tabled another question before 25 November, where I pointed out the bureaucracy and the problems that had arisen in the middle of a pandemic in the way that was registered, because they had to be kept in line, running in the accountant, running from here and from there, while in cooperation with the association of agricultural cooperatives in each county everything was done at home very easily. In any case, I appeal. It's unfair, it's uneven. How are we going to explain that one farmer who's a professional, who pays OGA, who works, who's his only income, won't get and the other farmer next to the same village will get? I am telling you, inequality is not justified, injustice is not justified. The government must find a way to solve the problem and should have found the way. Because I repeat on 25 November I have tabled a question to the House and sent you a document from the Peloponnese Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Screka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, I understand your concern to support or justify a few very few in front of a hundred and fifty thousand olive growers who will be supported. But I must tell you that unfortunately the repayment and financial support of Greek farmers of any agricultural sector has been damaged by money coming from the European Commission has a specific procedure. We've broken record of all times. A measure of the rural development programme, which is financed by a vast majority from Europe, was tabled for approval on 16 October and pays up to 25 December before Christmas. In other words, within two months we were planning a measure, we issued the notice under the conditions to be met by the beneficiaries of the measure, the invitation was made, the objections were checked and we are paying. This has never been done in two months. Now you say - and I believe you - 'but it is a farmer's main profession'. And why it wasn't written in the register, as the law laid down, I'm gonna oppose it. Now what do we do? Can we stop this measure? You asked the question to our Ministry on 25 November. On 25 November the invitation to the beneficiaries had already been opened. You need to understand how it works, because we're in the Greek Parliament. The invitation and the conditions have been approved by the European Commission and this was done on 16 October. After receiving the approval, after the invitation came, some came back later to cover this gap, which had been created either by their own accountants or by someone else and had not been written in the agricultural registers. So your question is whether these people can join this measure. I say to you that this measure with the specific conditions cannot meet them unless we do not pay the hundreds of forty, fifty thousand olive growers and we start the process of changing the measure, getting approval from the European Commission, issuing a new invitation, reapplying those few who you say exist. And I have no reason to believe you, but they did not fulfil the conditions of invitation and law. They had to, regardless of whether the Greek state was making an invitation, a measure to support them, to be registered, to have gone to renew their registration in the Register of Farmers and Farmers in the Ministry of Rural Development, so that the Ministry could understand that they are mostly farmers' professions. They didn't. The mistake of the minimums to pay for it hundreds of thousands of olive growers who were legal in everything? That's the question. From there on we can look at these cases, but I'll tell you something else. The government has come and supported horizontally all the farmers who have suffered a reduction in their income due to the coronary with the latest refund of EUR 1,000 from whom the EUR 500 are not repaid. It's a net subsidy, financial support. And the other EUR 500 will be returned after two years in forty-eight instalments. And I ask, for an olive grower who has 20 acres, this corresponds to about EUR 40 per acre and above, to EUR 50 per acre. For an olive grower who has 30 acres, this corresponds to about 35 euros per acre. So, they have not been left without support from the Greek Government and from Mr. Mitsotakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u35	All right, Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u36	I shall conclude, Mr President. They have also supported, as long as one thing has been done, a reduced turnover in relation to last September - October - and at least EUR 300 in two months. So they're backed up too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u37	And we move on with the third with number 263/14-12-2020, a top-level question by the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Coverishment of the lost income of vineyard growers'. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, after just three months, we have come back to a very acute problem, the problem that has to do with the very great loss of incomes suffered by wine growers and the consequences of the crisis, as they saw their income falling sharply. And basically this fall in income is around 25% compared with last year for all varieties. For example, in the Region of Western Greece all varieties have a very high price drop. The variety of rodite ranged from 0,15 to 0,20 minutes, when at least the cost of production approaches 0,25 minutes. So you understand very well what the loss each vine grower has in one acre has. In this respect, we have also asked the government to take immediate action, in good time, to support all the losses of the vineyard growers. But what you are talking about now about olive growers, the EUR 30 per acre, does not cover the loss. It's a very small piece of loss. And the green harvesting and distillation did not benefit, Minister, the vineyard growers. In this respect, this huge loss of income has not been covered. We are asking for something very specific and that can be controlled. There's the wine growers' register. You know the production, which is about a thousand pounds per acre. So, 0.10 minutes per acre, the losses are 150 euros, and we also put a plaque on those who have up to 40 acres of cultivation. So it would really be a support in relation to the losses they have suffered so that they can survive, but also re-entry first of all into their field, re-agriculture it. We therefore want a clear response from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Screka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we must say that the wine-growing sector has also suffered considerable damage because of the effects of the pandemic, either because of the reduced demand, or because of the difficulty of directing these products to the markets and being sold, either because of the closure of natural focus and the tragic reduction in the tourist product in Greece. All these tourists who visited our country were consumers of agricultural products, most of which are produced in our country. All of this has created many pressures both on agricultural income and, of course, on Greek farmers. Therefore, as far as winegrowers are concerned, which of course produce varieties for winemaking immediately, as you will remember, we supported them through a financial support of EUR 23 million. The 21 million concerned wine distillation and 2.1 million green harvesting. Already for some categories of vineyard growers, who have suffered damage, we have provided and ensured that these people are financially supported. For what? In order to be able to stay in their fields, in their crops and continue to do this important work for the Greek economy as well as in order to ensure the food and food security of the country and, of course, also to have the necessary income, which is essential for their families to live, to maintain the cohesion of our countryside and not to empty our villages. The next problem, which appears in the chronological order of ripening the various products and their production and placing on the market, is about table grapes and what we will do with the vine growers who produce grapes for consumption. First of all, let us say what I said to my previous colleague before, that the government and the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, by his decision and by decision of the financial staff, has enabled the last repayable advance to be beneficiaries and individual operations, and that is where we joined farmers for the first time. As a result, any farmer in September and October has a reduction in turnover, so, in fact, and the producers of table grapes, who are selling their production during this period, August, September, October, when they have reduced turnover and if they have at least EUR 300 in two months, they are entitled to receive EUR 1,000. As you know, the average area of the vineyard is twenty acres, thirty acres, forty acres and larger, of course. However, the vast majority of vineyard growers belong to such a category and thus accounts for about EUR 40 per acre. It's not too small to support. It is within the scope of this possibility that the state budget has, of course. Here we are, to see what further damage will be suffered and, as it turns out to have been damaged because of the continuation of the pandemic, we can see a new possible support in the future to cover it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. You described the situation, Minister. However, we must make it clear that, for example, green harvesting is 'deadly', it is a disaster of production. Furthermore, the distillation effected on substance liberated and mainly supported the producers of wine, i.e. the undertakings producing wine and not directly the income of the grape growers. From this point of view, a very small support went to them. So what's the point? What remains timely? Even what you said, the repayable advance, the EUR 500, is too little in relation to the losses, and this world cannot even survive. You know that very well, Minister. And that, because there are accumulated problems. Over the past few years, they weren't winning. Once again, 'equal boats, equal waters'. Many of them may have had debts: debts to banks, taxes. From this point of view, what is needed today is precisely the restoration of losses and it can be very easily found what the losses were, because it is simple. It is the production, the acres and what a price has been given, in essence. So you know that very well. That is why the cost of compensation is not large, the sum of EUR 150 per acre we call for as a JRC. We say this because we cannot avoid, Minister, that there is a specific financial situation. Money is there. You find money to compensate very large businesses, which do not have the need for survival for poor and medium-sized farmers. Money is available in the packages that will come the next time, but they will be directed to the major business groups. You know very well that even of these 21 billion, which the government says has taken as intervention measures to deal with the consequences of COVID. a very small part, about 350 million, went to the primary sector, namely farmers. In fact, a large part of this has gone to the farms' farms and other farms, not mainly farmers, to the poor, medium-sized farmers and farmers. That is why today it is imperative that the question of direct compensation for the whole and not part of the loss, so that they too can re-enter their fields, be able to grow. Because that is the visible danger ahead of them, Minister. So the level of the problem is different. And after all - underwriting, being able to cover costs and ensuring that the state covers its production costs is of great importance to farmers themselves. And don't tell me that the cost is determined by the market. Because the State is intervening in how it shapes the costs, as, for example, it interferes with the costs - as you call it - of working at the lowest wage. It's a state intervention. So there can be State interference at that level too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Screka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u44	First of all, I would like to say that the aid mechanism within the common agricultural policy of the European Union has a fundamental objective such as the one described, namely, to ensure a minimum income for the farmer, for the farmer who cultivates the land, for the one who maintains his live, whether sheep or goats, through the basic aids, which are, of course, given on the basis of the extent used by each farmer. This is the role that these aids play. In other words, the basic support is what you described very well as the support of the state to create a security network for the farmer. Where does a farmer have to do? He just has to grow. And if he grows and produces and declares his farming in the OSCE, in our system, then he is entitled to aid only because he grows. This is the part of the basic payment, of course, which, as you said, concerns the safety net, that is to say, support for the farmer for being able to live. Then there are other aids to the pillar of rural development, where these measures allow the farmer to invest in equipment, to be able to plant new crops, for example to replace old vineyards with newer ones, to make new plantations and thus to remain productive and competitive, to have a satisfactory income so that he can live, live his family, invest in his work and continue to provide the work he provides. From there on, as far as wine distillation is concerned, you are right - we have indirectly helped wine growers. Why? Because we have allowed thousands of tonnes of wine to be taken in a different direction, to be distilled, so that the tanks can then sell their produce for winemaking. Because if the tanks were filled, of course the winemakers wouldn't buy fresh grapes. So, in fact, the money was eventually taken to the vineyard growers who were able to sell their produce. Here we go. We are examining the further damage that some sectors of agricultural production, vineyard growers producing table grapes may have suffered. If we see that they are indeed damaged - because of the pandemic I repeat, because only for this reason can we use state money to support our farmers and not to be illegal state aid - of course we are here to see how and how much we will drop them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u45	We continue with the first with the number 246/11-12-2020 top-circuit question of the SYRIZA MP - the Progressive Alliance Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "Supporting cotton". Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, cotton is one of the largest crops in our country. The cotton producers in our country are about forty-five thousand. In this question, which I am addressing to the Ministry of Rural Development, the cotton producers want to know what the Ministry's policy is, what measures are, on the one hand, measures in the short term, on the other hand, to support cotton production in the long term? I can explain directly: Recently - and over a year and a half late - the cotton group of the Ministry of Rural Development - met slowly rather than ever - and put on the table certain specific objectives, some specific requests and measures to support cotton. First, do you intend to support the AGRO 2.1 crop system, AGRO 2.2? Secondly, will you intend to incorporate cotton in PAA 2021-2027, in the 'KOMFUZO', a major programme, which will, according to studies, bring the acre of cotton producers around EUR 35 to 38 for five years? Thirdly, do you intend to amend the ministerial decision on foreign materials to the strictest, instead of 10% perhaps the rate is less? Fourthly, do you intend to improve, stay in the ministerial decision on the compulsory contract in cotton delivery? Fifth, is it in the Ministry's thoughts to grant aid because of the fall in cotton price due to the coronary? As you know, the damage to cotton could not appear in May and June 2020, nor in September. It is starting to seem, however, from now on, that prices are indeed much lower. So, is it, in the Ministry's thought, directly or later, that financial aid should be granted due precisely to the fall in the price of cotton? And all this, of course, combined with the general support to cotton. Most in dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u47	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. You are quite right, Mr President, that cotton is a crop very important for the country's agricultural sector and even more important for specific areas where the vast majority of the farmed areas are covered by cotton. That is, in particular, where farmers live, they survive the production and sale of cotton, which is, I would say, a renewable product, in the sense that we produce things in a renewable way. The cotton, which is used for all these uses that we know about in our everyday lives, from clothing to many other, thousands of uses, is a product that is produced in a renewable way and is not exhausted, I can say - since, of course, we maintain soil and water in good condition - and with good cultivation practices, protecting the environment. It is, in other words, a piece that proves and how a circular economy can work. It's not a mineral product, so it's not exhaustable. And that's what I'm saying. So this crop is very important, especially for Greece, because it is one of the most important crops that join the palette of Greek agricultural products. Now, what is the aim of our Greek state and our government? The aim is to make Greek farmers and cotton producers more competitive. In what way can this be done? Two ways. First, with a reduction in the cost of production and second, with the possibility of selling their product more expensive, at a better price. Why? Because it's better quality. We as a government have made many contributions in both directions. You will allow me, however, to answer the possibility of the farmer being able to sell his product more expensively. Why? Because it's more qualitative. So, what do we have to ensure? That the product, which delivers, throughout the supply chain, has a specific identity, where there, on that identity, is characterized by high quality characteristics. And how is that guaranteed? Through what you have termed, the measure AGRO 2, AGRO 2.1, AGRO 2.2, AGRO 2.3. What's AGRO? It is a mechanism for certifying the quality of Greek cotton. In fact, in the time we are in the government, in the fifteen to eighteen months, we have succeeded through the ELGO - DIMITRA, with the current administration of ELGO - DIMITRA that does a great job and a great job, to be able through the benchmarking process, i.e. comparative assessment, to achieve the equivalence between AGRO 2 and BCI, which is the international certificate for cotton quality, the Better Cotton Initiative, as it is said. We have signed and so the Greek farmers, who have been able to obtain an AGRO 2 certificate for their cultivation, can place this product on the international markets and the ginners as a product that has the BCI characteristics. The rest will be answered in my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u50	Minister, I would be beg and waitin' for secondary as much as possible. I'll keep a little bit of what you said, be able to sell his product more expensively. In order to do this - in principle - there must be a contract. To ensure, first, the contract, price. There is the relevant ministerial decision from 4-7. -2019, which rewards the quality producer. Because, you know, to go from theory to practice is a long road. Everyone will agree there must be quality cotton, we agree. The question is what the conditions are. Firstly, AGRO 2.1, AGRO 2.2, I would like to ask whether this system will be subsidised. Secondly, if the ministry intends to integrate cotton into the "KMFUZO" programme. I'm telling them as specifically as possible, simpler, more specific. Thirdly, if it intends to apply, persist or improve the ministerial decision, from 4-7-2019, according to which the quality producer is rewarded and how this decision will be implemented in practice. Fourthly, I have asked for it in protology too, if it is in the view of the Ministry of Aid - because we know that prices have fallen - in view of the fall in prices due to COVID in cotton. We also want an answer for foreign materials, stripper machines, because the strip machine is a big wound to cotton production. The decision was that who delivers cotton with 10% and more foreign matter lost the connection. The first measurements after the decision showed that there was a compliance. Unfortunately, the phenomenon has increased again. How will you insist on this phenomenon in order to limit it? It is a phenomenon which affects the quality producer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, I recapitulate by summarizing the following: if there is thought in the Ministry to have a debate on the replacement of lost income due to COVID -19 on cotton producers, secondly, whether you will apply - I am referring to quality cotton - and how the decision rewarding the quality cotton producer, thirdly, the percentage of foreign materials and fourthly, whether to integrate cotton into the new PAA, which is planned in 2021-2027 in the 'KMFUZO' programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u51	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to answer whether cotton growers have been supported by the state because of the possible price reduction due to the pandemic. I will tell you, Mr President, as I have said to the previous colleagues, that we have managed by a decision of the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, to include farmers for the first time, those who have been damaged, of course, because of the pandemic, that is, they have suffered a reduction in their income, in the advance. You will hear me say this again and again, because it was for the first time and because we have thus covered in a horizontal way all the farmers who had a reduction in their income in September - October because of the pandemic. We should not forget that. I say it and say it again, because that can probably go on. I do not know, but it depends on the possibilities of the state budget. I am sure that the financial staff will also look at the next repayable advances if such branches of the primary sector, which have been damaged by the pandemic, can be reintegrated. It is a very important political decision that gave a solution to people who we could not individually - one - see if it has been damaged. But what should man have and what should he prove? It has to prove that it produces cigarettes, that it sells and that it is reduced in relation to the corresponding period of last year, that is, this year's review in relation to last year. And to tell the truth, in our minds cotton growers were primarily among the others, of course, who, in the very period of September - October, are the ones who deliver their production, the whole of their production. They grow all year round, spend all year round, spend all year round and wait within one, two months to collect from the sale of production. And in the next programming period, in the new CAP, of course, we are planning to support producers and the incentives to move forward, to testify to the quality of their products, not only in cotton - of course in cotton - but also in all Greek products produced. The aim of the next CAP is to do what we have not managed as a country to do all the previous programming periods, namely, to give the characteristics, identify, certify the quality characteristics that Greek agricultural products have, so that they can be sold at better prices on the markets, because they are worth it because they are of better quality. And we should, of course, communicate this quality to consumers already so that they are prepared to go and buy Greek agricultural products a little more expensive than other competing products, because they will know that they are better. But that must be certified. And of course, we will motivate through the rural development programme. That includes research and we will ultimately end up with what you said - as far as the 'COMFUZIO' is concerned, if necessary and how it is needed and whether it should be supported. This includes measures to reduce production costs. A lot of things we're planning. And of course, one of which is fundamental, is the educational system. Finally, there will be a national system of lifelong learning, vocational training for farmers. Studies are being conducted. You know them very well, Mr. Comrade. You see that the same farmer, with the same area cultivated, with the right education and advice - and here comes the agricultural advisory system, which we will also be calling for in the next period - can produce much lower production costs. We must at some point tell the truth, see the truth in the face and say that we must improve the way we cultivate our fields. And from this alone, we can achieve a great improvement of up to 30%, 40% increase in income, without doing anything but improving the way we cultivate. And because you had also asked a question about satellite checks at 100%, we have increased satellite controls to 7%. Of course, you know that OPECE is participating in a European project. And of course, there is a great deal of talk in the European Union and we agree. It is a technical matter, that is technically possible, so that we can do it. Of course, we are in favour of being able to have a self-control in 100% of farmed land, to erase these few examples too...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u53	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u54	I shall conclude, Mr President. ...such as some who are trying to get away from the regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u55	Next is the 266/14-12-2020 second time question by Hercules MEP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Manolis Synthraki to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Problems of the small and medium-sized olive producers of Crete". Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there are problems now with the oil producers, who are left unprotected by middlemen and merchants who are literally seeking to have their crops cut short. At the same time, of course, several oil producers who have not joined the register are excluded from the right to aid, but also non-professional farmers. This year was a good crop and created expectations of replacement of income after last October's disaster, for example, did not affect so much because of the heat of last October. The producer price of EUR 2,40 per kilo of violence EUR 2,60 is, of course, much lower - it does not even cover production costs, which this year, among other things, was very increased. Measure 21, which concerns support measures for farmers because of the pandemic, provided for a scalable subsidy for last year's proportional production on average of around EUR 30 per hectare with the beneficiaries only of the main producers of oilseeds, with an initial period of application up to 27-11, which, of course, after the outcry that existed, was only transferred by five days. This measure was inadequate. It does not even cover lost income, as the subsidy, based on the average production of Crete, corresponds to just 10 cents a kilo - we are talking about extra virgin olive oil - while the criteria for determining the beneficiaries and the suffocating timeframe have excluded a large part of the producers. The non-predominant producers of oilseeds of Crete were excluded on the grounds that they had other main incomes, while they were also severely affected by the downfall of the tourist movement, while any replacement received for these incomes was with the dropper. This is therefore a very serious injustice. Finally, one further point I would like to raise is that the oil producers in October and November have suffered a great deal of damage from the hail and heavy rainfall. There is a delay in recording damages, as well as their compensation, while their problems and obligations are running. From October until today, three months have passed and still not finished the record and you say that it will be completed at the end of January 2021. And when will these people be compensated? So we want to ask you the following questions: Is it the Government's intention to tackle this injustice and to provide for funding to cover the lost income of all the oil producers, both those who receive the aid of measure 21, which is inadequate and those who have not joined the measure? Secondly, in relation to this year's income, what measures are to be taken to ensure that producers of oilseeds cover production costs and leave them a survival income and, at the same time, the price for consumption is affordable to the populace? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, this question has been answered again and again today, but it makes sense, because the pandemic has indeed put a lot of pressure on agricultural incomes, including olive growers, and it makes sense to accept questions to explain what we have done so far, which we have done a lot of things, I must say, of course, to the extent of the possibilities. I will tell you, for example, that the EUR 126 million, which has been directed and in the next few days will be attributed to the main farmers in the olive-growing sector, is the ceiling, it is 2% of the total rural development programme and it is the sum of the money that we could use through European money to compensate for all the agricultural sectors. We have guided these mainly to olive growers, because we really understand, we recognise - we live here, we are elected to rural regions - that the olive growers for two - three consecutive years unfortunately accept very low prices for the excellent quality products which produce and come a further blow because of the pandemic. The money we give to God is not given because the industry has been damaged for two, three years. The money now being given to support the oil producers is because they have suffered an extra damage because of the pandemic that came and hit with all the other oil producers. Question: Why is it that only by main-professional farmers? You said that very well in your position. Because they mainly live from agricultural incomes. Should we also provide financial support to the retired person, for example, who has some agricultural income, or to the employee, either private or public, or to the professional, or to the scientist? I will tell you first of all that the professionals and scientists who mainly depend on their real status have other support measures. In the latter instance - and I repeat it is very important - we have also put farmers in the repayable advance. It's an extra support. There we do not consider whether it is mostly or not a major occupation. It must have incomes and incomes must be reduced during the pandemic, namely, September, October, which was the period under consideration. Therefore, beyond EUR 126 million, there is also the repayable, which is also enough money to support the damaged industry and which is naturally demonstrated by the reduced sales, by the reduced turnover that this time period has. From that point on, we're here. We are monitoring the development of the pandemic. We are watching how this affects the agricultural sector and, of course, as the Ministry of Rural Development, we are therefore in existence to support the farmers who are affected by the consequences of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u60	Minister, you too realise that the damage suffered by farmers as a whole, by farmers and fishermen, not only because of the pandemic, but as a whole as a result of the common agricultural policy, that is, the policies implemented by the European Union, is slowly leading them to an end. The EUR 126 million, which you say is the ceiling for all of the funding, cannot cover these real needs. And here we are talking about a lasting problem, a constant crime against producers, which has to do with production costs, which is growing from year to year. It is also about the price issue. Who is it that determines the producer prices? In the end, these are the ones that determine the income of producers. I will tell you this: Producer prices in Greece have continued to move at very low levels for many years. It's not temporary. It's not today. Are you ever looking to see where it is due to the fact that producer prices remain fixed? For extra virgin oil, with an acidity of 0,3, the maximum values range from EUR 2,7 to EUR 3 and between EUR 2,40 to EUR 2,50, the minimum prices. Do you know how much oil is in Spain? EUR 4,25 per kilo in Spain and EUR 4,90 per kilo! See, then, what kind of differences are there? In recent years, olive oil prices have not just been reduced, they are literally much lower than production costs, since in practice the usual price for one kilo of good oil is EUR 2 to EUR 2,20 per kilogram. What does that mean? It's worth more coffee than a pound of extra virgin olive oil. In Greece, bulk olive oil is offered by too many to very few. There are about two thousand four hundred olive mills, cooperatives and private, acting as brokers and eighty to a hundred merchants selling bulk products to only ten buyers - representatives of large multinational industries based mainly in Italy. So here is who determines marketing and prices. The cartels! And you, not only, do nothing to protect the producer by setting minimum prices, but instead you support them on the basis of the law on cooperatives, which allows partnerships and private individuals to determine everything. The producer price cannot be 2,5 euros pound and the price on the shelf twice and three times over. Do you know how much the oil has on the shelf in London? 12 euros. There is a huge difference between producer price and consumer price. Who's wrinkling that difference? Aren't the middlemen? Aren't the dealers? Aren't the cartels? The middlemen don't care so much about the price. They are mainly interested in making available the product at such a price as to be of interest to them. Many times the producers ask the question where they go their oil: "Would we sell it or not sell it?" Do you know what the answer is that they're given? To the extent that they cannot - he says - sell less than EUR 3.5 per kilo. But is the point that they can't afford to sell when they have such pressing needs?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u61	Finish it, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u62	So where is the cause? It is in the chaos of the free market in the product, which you are defending. And who's responsible for this? Isn't the traders' inconsistency? Isn't the European Union? Aren't your governments, which you just embrace this policy? Of course, Mr Karathanasopoulos said so well. You have set minimum wages. You gave a Christmas gift of EUR 534 and at the same time you put a lower price on the product.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Synatiakis, please, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u64	I shall conclude, Mr President. We therefore call on you to take immediate measures to support olive growers and all farmers and to add them to code 21, and non-professional farmers, because this is a false copy. Let me tell you, for example: A hotel employee, who is mainly a hotel employee during the period of suspension or unemployed, what is he? What's chief occupation? Is he a hotel employee or a farmer with a hundred root olives?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u65	You've become clear, all right. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with the last one. Listen to see, each sector was based on the main activity, the main activity code or the main job. The hotel official should be supported and supported through the government's support measures for hotel officials, professionals, scientists through the measures for scientists and the farmer, the chief occupation, through measures for farmers. Otherwise, the 126 million, if they were all going, should have gone to the public and private sector employees too, to the scientists, to the professionals as well. It would be less than half for the main-professional farmers, which I do not think is fair. And here we must not forget something: what is this support for? To keep the farmer in the fields and grow. So who should we support? The one who lives solely or principally on agricultural incomes, because we do not have infinite money. If we had all the money we wanted, we'd give everyone a little bit of support and everyone would be happy. But the money is limited. You understand that. Every euro we give must catch a place and go to the person who deserves it. Because this euro you know that it will eventually be gone. So we have to be very careful. And I do not think anyone disagrees that when we have a certain margin - so to speak - financial support, it should be directed to the main-professional farmers, that is to say to the dynamic farmers, to those who live mainly from their agricultural incomes. You mentioned some prices. I'll tell you what the prices are today. I now entered the internet: let's go on 29 November 2020. And because you talked about Spain: 'SPAIN CORDOBA', $1,88 per litre, 'SPAIN BADAJOZ' $2,22 per litre, 'SPAIN GRANADA' $1,97 per litre, 'SPAIN JAEN' $1,88 per litre. You can see, then, that the prices there are far less than EUR 2. It is EUR 1,5 in Spain on 29 November 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u67	It's not the extra virgin. Make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u68	Listen, 40% more. He doesn't write here. It says "OLIVE OIL" in total. But it's not 4 euros, it can be 1.5 euros simple and 2 to 2.5 euros extra virgin. What is the ratio in Greece? To say things the way they are, because I do not want things to be heard that give the wrong directions. Why? Because the price of oil is well or badly shaped at European and global level. What's the matter with him? But why in Europe imports of oil from third countries: Tunisia, Morocco, Turkey. Their production is increasing, and this is because supply is increasing and demand is specific pressure on prices downwards. So, unfortunately, it works. So what does the common agricultural policy come up with and do? Through the basic aid, it comes through the related aid, and supports European farmers - hence the Greeks - precisely in order to be able to withstand competition from cheaper production, in terms of production costs, third countries. But what does Greece have to do? Should we compete in cost terms with competing oils? Of course not. We have better oil. But what do we have to do to communicate this? Can an oil producer with 30, 50, 200 acres compete with the large cooperatives in Spain, Italy, the work that has been done there? Farmers must unite - mistakes have been made in the past, in terms of cooperatives, cooperative schemes - but that is the solution! They must be grouped, acquired the critical mass, so that they can also ID their products and have them marketed themselves and thus enjoy a higher selling price for their products. That is what we are planning as a government and that is what we will achieve with the incentives that we will give through the new common agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u69	We are entering the last question for today, the fourth with number 250/13-12-2020, the second time question from the SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance of Georgios Born to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Eurgent need for measures to support the Greek beekeepers". Mr. Bored, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I imagine you are aware of the role played by beekeeping in the economy and what brand "Greek honey" means. I also assume that you know that Greek honey and beekeeping were severely affected during the quarantine of Lockdown, let's say that, as Mr Babiniotis says. The industry was therefore hit in many respects. Tourism, cafeteria, coffee's closed. It's hard to move the beekeepers. There's a ban on moving a third person. As you know, beekeepers are family farms, that is, to go the husband with the wife and not take the son together to do the job on the bee. In the face of any other action, instead of aid because of the exceptional situation, there has been a reduction in the subsidy for oil, for the movement of beekeepers, from EUR 4 to EUR 3, as well as in the aid for the renewal of cells of 10% each time, from EUR 24 to EUR 16. Look at what difficult conditions beekeepers do. Known beekeeper, from whom I am procuring honey from Eitolokarnania, sent man cups of honey to fifteen - twenty stores in Athens with a courier. Half of them broke down on the street! And don't tell me, Minister, to work with a click away! There is still no theoretical possibility of doing so. There is, therefore, this particular situation, but also extensive fraud, illegal Greekisms which force prices dramatically. The beekeeper, the honey producer, has no opportunity for personal contact. This is his big gun, because he sells surname, sells quality products and does not sell a product that is mixed I do not know with which Greek honey and with which Chinese honey, where production costs in China are not even 2 euros a kilo. He can't have that personal contact.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u71	Get in, George, to the question!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u72	Question: How do you intend to strengthen, with what tangible support and how will you intensify controls on illegal Greekisation and fraud?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u73	Here, Mr. Screka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank my colleague for the very correct question he has raised concerning a critical sector, the apiculture sector. Because you know, I have to say that in the new common agricultural policy we will also receive special attention to supporting a very dynamic sector that gives a good income, as it is carried out in a proper way, to the people in the countryside, to the people who live in the region of Greece. Let us say that the present government, the Ministry of Rural Development, the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Makis Voridis, the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Fotini Arabatzis - who is very concerned about this issue and has focused very much on support for apiculture - and also the Deputy Minister for Development and Investment have signed a joint ministerial decision to support the apiculture sector, on the programme to improve the general conditions of production and marketing of products. It is the Ministerial Decision No 788/334896/23-12-2019. According to this programme, we are directing EUR 19.5 million - EUR 6.5 million for 2020, EUR 6.5 million for about EUR 2021 and EUR 6.5 million for 2022 - precisely to support the apiculture sector, which is financed by 50% from European Union resources and by 50% from national resources. In addition, you know that for beekeepers on the smaller Aegean islands there is support for the special conditions in which they are forced to work and produce honey. There is, therefore, a total of EUR 1.8 million aid, just support for these beekeepers who live on the islands, on the smaller Aegean islands. From there on, with regard to what you said and it is very important, the identity of the products sold on the shelves of Greek supermarkets - supermarkets or small, smaller food shops, we have increased controls and they have paid back. You saw, lastly, it had already been on television - I think - that the revocation of products, which after checking the FET, were found to be abnormal. Others wrote on the label and others were the contents. It is what you are saying, which you have described and which can be described as fraud, that the consumer is misled about what he pays for and what he actually buys. There we will be - and we are - very hard on illegal Greekism. And in milk we have managed to increase the price of sheep and goat milk in Greece by 30%, we received it from EUR 0,70, EUR 0,75 from the previous administration of the Ministry of Rural Development, EUR 1, almost now, EUR 0,95. Why? Because we are doing checks, because there is the legal framework that protects, controls are not right. We are doing proper checks and you see that results in all agricultural products - or at least most - which, unfortunately, are pressed by this rock of illegal Hellenism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u75	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u76	So, Minister, because I want specific answers, did you say 6.5 million for 2020? I want you to tell me specifically.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u77	I said 6,474,000 euros every year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u78	In fact, 6.5m euros. I would like you to tell me in particular - because here too often a game has been played with numbers, so that the ordinary citizen does not understand, is lost in a cloud of numbers - what corresponds to each producer for 2020 for the damage suffered by the exceptional circumstances that I described and which you have obviously understood, under what conditions the beekeepers are forced to work. I want you to tell me specific things so they can be checked out. Of course, the beekeepers themselves will understand it. Whatever the media broadcast, I think they'll finally figure out what they'll get. But let us also understand it for the needs of control, with regard to the parliament. Now, with regard to illegal Greekism and fraud, take care to see this, Minister: the FFET has indeed located on a specific supermarket - which there is no reason to mention by name, I do not know, may even exist, but let us leave this - flawed honey with illegal substances. But the checks for identification, Minister, have remained far behind. By 2015 the checks were almost zero. In the next few years, nine thousand checks were carried out. When you came, you abolished that particular body and made another one. You do not bring any evidence of how many checks you have carried out, I repeat, for identification, so that the consumer knows what the product he buys is. Did you do any checks? I'm not talking about FET. As far as the FFET is concerned, I told you. I'm talking about identification. There is a practical difference, Minister. Study it and you'll see it. This must be done, so that we know what everyone is selling in this country and that the commitment of the beekeepers to the production of first-class honey, of a separate class, makes sense. In fact, to be honest, this kind of quality cannot be very cheap. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In this illusion some people take the lead, someone who could describe him as "new enclaves" in the honey market, without taking into account the tradition that drags the Greek honey behind him, which is an emblematic product and we must defend it at all costs. But, Minister, I want a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u79	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u80	In order to avoid any misunderstanding, the support I have told you, the 6.5 million a year, for 2020, 2021 and 2022, is not about the effects of the pandemic on the industry. It concerns a programme of support for bee producers so that they can improve their work. It's financial support for modernisation, etc. So, there...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u81	You mean with or without a pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u82	It is not about pandemic at all, Mr President. It is about support for the industry in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u83	The pandemic aid?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u84	I'll tell you. As far as the checks you mentioned and the identification are concerned, we must have an ID. So we have to ID the Greek honey. That's where we've done a great job. I said earlier that for other products, but also for oil and cotton, we will promote the identification of the quality characteristics of Greek products and motivate Greek farmers to go and identify their products with the quality certificates that we are going to finance them. And this, in order to take over these extra costs and cultivate in this way or produce their products through integrated management systems, in order to produce quality products that have identity. So as far as honey is concerned, ELGO - DIMITRA has completed the process of drawing up the specifications for the award of the Greek mark to honey, which has not existed until now. Now we're making the identity and the Greek badge. And the ELGO does. I repeat that his administration, as of course ELGO, workers, are doing a great deal of work on this. They are scientists who have a very important academic background and they really do their job very well. Now, the FTF is conducting systematic inspections in the field of honey. In the internal market for 2020, a programme for the authenticity and discrepancy of honey was drawn up and implemented, with a view to checking its quality characteristics, as well as to verifying - has been carried out by the FVO - if the honey available for consumption, for example as a thyme, meets the specifications that are mentioned. Therefore, checks are carried out as well as with regard to the safety of honey, because it is also under control, that is to say, whether it is safe for consumption, but also 'normal'. What does "normal" mean? ‘Non-normal’ means whether the items it mentions are those which include means as content. We also have the online platform of food fraud, the food fraud that operates. This is where complaints are made, and the EFSI is then going and conducting the checks. So, here we are in a next question, of course, we can answer how many numerical checks we have done, because the question you are asking is reasonable. The result seems, of course. I do not believe that publicity offers substance, but in any case it also proves to the public that work is being done in order to make the public feel safer. From there we are together, to sit and see how we can improve the organization of the market and, finally, to pay more precisely for a better honey that is Greek, with better characteristics.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u85	You didn't tell me about the pandemic!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u86	I'll tell you. For the pandemic, the Ministry's services are currently considering precisely to find the recital in order to prove that there is objective damage to beekeepers, so that they can then be entitled to aid, which, of course, we are here to identify. However, I must tell you that beekeepers, like all the farmers, who have suffered a reduction in their incomes in September, October - and, of course, this will continue - because of the pandemic, which, of course, is proven by the cigarette they say, is entitled to an advance of EUR 1,000. Five hundred euros is the subsidy and the other five hundred euros are returned after two years in forty-eight instalments. So the beekeepers too...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u87	That's not reinforcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u88	What is it? The 1,000 euros isn't money?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u89	Your answer means no reinforcement at least right now...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u90	Don't have a dialogue. That's not what the Minister said. Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u91	I shall conclude, Mr President. They've already been paid to those who have suffered damage. We're talking about those who were damaged in September and October and had a reduced turnover, because that's how it turns out. How will someone prove to have been damaged? He sold less this year than he sold last year for the corresponding period we are considering. The EUR 1,000 have therefore already been paid. And, of course, we are going to see how the pandemic is going to go ahead, what impact it will have on the industry to support and see what the next measure will be.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u92	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. We shall be adjourning the sitting at 12 noon, when we shall be returning by discussing and deciding on applications for immunity from Members of Parliament, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Requests for waiver of immunity: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, etc. Georgiou Kamin, Dionysios Akuppi, Ioannis (Yiannis) Varoufakis, Andreas Koutsoubas, Panayois (Giotas) Poulou (a judiciary), Angelikos Adamopoulou, Charalambou (Chari) Mamoulakis, Antonio Mylonakis, Konstantinos Markos and Pavlos Polakis. Before we move on, in view of the fact that an incidental matter has been raised by a colleague and until he has been taken over to be distributed to the parliamentary representatives and to read it, I should like to make two announcements to this House. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of the Interior, the Vice-President of the Government, the Minister of Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, the Deputy Minister of Finance, and the Deputy Minister of Finance and the Deputy Minister of the Prime Minister of Citizens and Culture and Sport have tabled on 15-12-20 a draft law: ‘Modernisation of the system of recruitment in the public sector and strengthening the Higher Council on Personnel Selection (PSC)’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I also have another announcement to make to this House. The President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group and its party MPs tabled a legislative proposal on 15-12-20 on "Proposal for a law on institutional and fiscal matters". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. As I have been informed, the incidental issues have been distributed to everyone. Mr. Katrugalos and Mr. Dritsa have signed. I'll read them. The first is December 16 - to go in the order - and it states: 'The proposal of the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics for the waiver of immunity of Mr Angeliki Adamopoulou cannot be discussed, because it runs counter to the provision of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, in conjunction with Article 61 of the Constitution on the irresponsibility of the Member, since its reality at the expense of the denial does not legally undermine the objective nature of the crime of slandering. Furthermore, the judgement of the committee, in which ‘in this particular case the act for which the waiver of the above-mentioned Member is sought is not linked to its political and parliamentary activity and its persecution does not conceal political feasibility’, is not lawful, because such control falls within the scope of the examination of applications for waiver of immunity under Article 62 and not pursuant to Article 61 of the Constitution, which has been applied here’. The second incident says: 'The proposal of the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics to waive the immunity of MP Paul Pavlaki cannot be debated, because it is contrary to the provision of Rule 83(8) of the Rules of Procedure, which provides that a new request for prosecution based on the same facts is unacceptable. And that, because the facts on which the new law is based are the same ones for which Parliament has already refused to grant its permission to waive immunity. The undersigned MPs, Mr. George Katrugalos and Mr. Theodores Dritsas both. In accordance with Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Katrugale, you have the floor for two minutes to identify the incident and to support it in a specific provision of the Rules of Procedure. This therefore concerns requests for an infringement of a specific provision of the Rules of Procedure. Let's go to the first indent of paragraph 2A. There you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u94	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u95	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u96	Both applications are brought contrary to the Rules of Procedure. This is also the case with Mrs Adamopoulou, who is opposed to a provision of the Constitution that is super-legislative, as well as with Mrs Adamopoulou. They are not individual events. For the first time in post-government political history, we have seen, for example, a preliminary investigation against political parties leaders, the President of SYRIZA, the Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Greece and the President of Mera25 for their participation in the honorary events on November 17th. Mrs Adamopoulos' case is the most challenging, precisely because it seems that the majority of the Committee on Ethics wants to be politically dissatisfied. I would remind you that the institutional guarantees of irresponsible and irresponsible are not the prerogatives of Members. They have been set to protect the freedom of speech of the Member, that is, in the end, the very quality of the Parliamentary Republic. So the House should not even get into the substance of the debate in this case. Mr Polakis' case is different. It shows the personal vengeance of the Midiarchs adopted as its own by the New Democracy. What's he asking for? Let the House re-examine a request for the waiver of the immunity it has rejected. The facts are the same. That, Mr President, is what the incident is all about. If you would like to give me the rest of the minutes provided for in the Rules of Procedure to develop them. You remember it's two plus five minutes these. I didn't hear you, Mr. President. Can I have the floor? I didn't close five minutes. I would remind you that the Rules of Procedure provide for two minutes for the person who raises the matter and from there and then the reason for it is to develop it. I didn't hear the President. So, I keep going. That's why I was waiting. I think it gives me the floor and I continue. I think that's the point. I'll try to be within the limits. You can be substantial in a short time. I would particularly stress the case of Mrs Adamopoulou precisely because she is unprecedented. I remind you what irresponsible is about. The irresponsibility provides for a full discharge from any responsibility of the Member for reason or vote before the House. There is a unique exception, that of slandering defamation. Again for obvious reasons. Do not feel free to offend the value of natural persons. In this case, however, even if they are founded, i.e. true, the facts invoked by the messengers cannot be substantiated by a slandering offence. What did Mrs. Adamopoulou do? He made a political crisis. He said that many times, against demonstrations that divert their purpose, we see police officers with politicians participating in the incidents. This is true or not, it is obvious, a political crisis and it is not against the price of any particular person. I shall testify to the practically well-established case-law which says that the offence of slandering collectively against groups of persons is not haunted. If one says 'all lawyers are liars', every lawyer is not entitled to turn against him for the offence of slandering. Moreover, the identity of what is supposed to be the victim of slandering must be personally specialised. So none of this was in this lawsuit. That was initially necessary for these reasons of inability, i.e. to haunt the objective nature of the crime, to have been filed by the prosecutor. Then the Ethics Committee had to examine this audit in the context of its audit, see the obvious - unacceptable, not because of real - without monitoring the real facts, precisely because it is not legally able to establish the objective nature of the crime with these characteristics. The insistence of a majority, namely the New Democracy - to say things by their name - is to say that the committee shares the highest number of law-enforcement lawyers to whom I of course also belong, Mr President. I do not think I am wrong if I relate it to what I mentioned earlier about attempting to criminalise political life and exercise, with the scrutiny of a preliminary investigation that has already been ordered for the heads of the political parties of the Left to whom I referred earlier. It is clear that we cannot tolerate, as a Parliament, the reduction of the fundamental rights of Members who are actually guaranteed by the French revolution. And we should not even enter into the debate on this proposal because it would be like us to consent to the mutilation of the Members' freedoms and therefore to harm the very heart of parliamentaryism itself. The case of Mr Polakis falls within the same context, trying to use criminal law to the detriment of freedom of speech. But it has the peculiarity that the House has already been placed. Efforts are made with legal tricks to show that the basis of the new suspense is different compared with the oldest one. However, those who read it - and that should obviously have been done energetically by the Ethics Committee - see that the facts are quite similar. Here, therefore, in addition to what I have already said, there is an effort that ends up with the institution itself. We can't keep voting until we get through what the Midarchs want. That's not the point of democracy. The MPs represent the nation, not the interests of the media. For these reasons, Mr President, we believe that the debate on both applications must be held unacceptable and that the incident we have raised should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u97	Thank you. Mr. Kamines has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, as Mrs Adamopoulou is accustomed to, we are of the opinion that, when there is a clear absence of the objective nature of the offence, the committee should, in any event, make a first check on the matter, not even send it to the House. Here's a glimpse of it. Crimes of exaltation and slander are obvious, it has been accepted by the theory - if we were to accept a more general view of who they are affected - that the victims of these crimes should be fully personalised, In this case, Mrs Adamopoulou has referred to a whole category of civil servants, so it is not even the objective and subjective nature of the offence. There must finally be a potion here. The question of the presence of political leaders in the marches on the day of the Polytechnic and the persecution of them is a very sensitive issue. The theory accepts it and is the foundation of the culture that no one is above the law. And when there is a case of legitimate disobedience to the law, this should be founded on the law and the Constitution. This is a big topic for discussion. Moreover, the third issue which concerns constitutionality again concerns my personal situation, and I will speak about it when my case comes before this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u99	I would like to say this: the committee has resolved this. Plenary is another matter. On the subject of Mr Polakis, to be explained, he has the same legal cause, that is, the slandering defamation, but does not have the same historical cause. I explained that in committee too. It's a different matter. It does not mean that if one gets rid of it or is convicted - we do not prejudge anything - that in a similar case, it must be done the same. It is another matter of historical and other real cause. And in any case, they are separate and do not create a reproach on each other. On the second point of persecution, which was done for Mrs Adamopoulou, if she is right, Mr Katrugale - you know that - she is not in the legal and substantive sense itself, but the admissibility. The admissibility, however, is dealt with only by the courts. The Rules of Procedure are set out in Rule 83(4).
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u100	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Janakopoulos, you're in a hurry. I say this to say a few things and help to talk about it. It is a question of whether it is an incidental matter which is raised. It is also the main issue in this House when it comes to dealing with and in the course of the procedure, that is to say the application of the rules. It is not that you are being violated in view of the application of the rules by means of incidental matters. It is therefore up to the Members to express themselves in their vote on this matter. When Members say that it should not be lifted - that is why the vote is not justified - it is either because they consider that the provisions are being infringed, or because, if necessary, the act on which they are invoked is linked to the duties or to the political activity in accordance with Rule 62, as revised by Parliament and this time has been limited. That is why the Member is speaking by his vote on referral back or not. From that point on, we've all heard you. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u102	I want to speak as a parliamentary representative. Mr President, at a meeting of the Committee on Ethics, which I had expressed the view that what is being said, political crises, as acute as they are, are, however sharp as they are, even if they are being used beyond the limit, as the individual sees it, is from the Step of the House - and in particular from the point of view of which it was judged, which has nothing to do with today's 'appraising' category from the Step of the House - and they cannot be referred back. It's clear. If the Rules and Code of Conduct set up by the previous Bureau are to be heard, there are phrases which insult or anything else which is inappropriate, the Bureau has the power at that time to request the removal from the minutes and the withdrawal of such phrases. When, from the Step forward of the House, there is a phrase and the Bureau for these reasons - I am not analyzing them - does it not intervene because it does not consider it appropriate or has escaped - you will tell us that it does not consider it appropriate to make a correction that has to do with a phrase - will the prosecutor come from the outside to judge what is said by the Step of this House or anyone? I am perpendicular to those relating to good time procedures like today, which Mr Kamines has a personal request today, or Mrs Adamopoulos or any of the five, six takes the floor and tells me some things to be seen as insulting to others even when there are acute expressions. That, to be clear, doesn't exist. In this case, Mrs Adamopoulou, whom the complaint relates to a speech from the Step of the House - in which the Bureau did not have any remarks, there was nothing to ask for a revocation or anything else - I think that intervention from the outside to the ones from the Step of the House is beyond the specific provisions of the Constitution. Let me remind you that before the Revision of the Constitution I personally at least said that - and I publicly supported it within the procedures of my party - the procedure for the waiver of immunity must be reversed. There must be only when the Member asks for it in cases where the courts come to judge him - or anything else - for his political, parliamentary and general public activity relating to the function of the office. If this had been reversed, we would not have discussed one tenth of the cases and discussed the substance and not the way it is today. The committee felt that this should not be qualified and made some other changes, but I insist that this was the right solution. Be well next time, better minds!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Bougas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, two comments. I would like to believe that Mr Katrugalos has raised this issue as a preliminary point of order in order to give him and the Members of his party time to speak more time about the issues that will be decided today and to develop their ideological views. Because on the basis of the letter of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House, as you have rightly pointed out, there cannot be a question of this. A second comment on what Mr Kegeroglu said just now. The institution, ladies and gentlemen, of parliamentary immunity, is not an originality of the Greek Constitution. Almost all the countries of the Council of Europe have similar regulations and similar provisions in their constitutions. There too, as in the Greek Constitution - and that is why I do not think there can be any doubt and doubt - the institution of parliamentary immunity, because it is a serious restriction on the right to judicial protection, is interpreted closely. Now, with regard to the matters raised, Mr President, I begin with the letter of the law and the letter of the Rules of Procedure of the House, which, in paragraph 1 of Rule 83, specifically states that the request of the Prosecutor for the authorisation of the House, under the provisions of Articles 61 and 62 of the Constitution, is forwarded to the House after being sent to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay and submitted by the Minister of Justice. And not only does it say “to be sent to the prosecutor of the Ice Arena”, but it also mentions the words “after being checked by the prosecutor of the Ice Arena”. What does the phrase 'after being checked by the prosecutor of the Ice Arena' mean, ladies and gentlemen? Before forwarding the case-file to Parliament by the Minister of Justice, the prosecutor has carried out an audit which is not, of course, a matter of whether the charge is correct, but, above all, the admissibility and legal basis. Therefore, if the relevant proceedings are forwarded to Parliament, the House is entitled, on the presumption, to assume that such initial checks on legal integrity by the prosecutor of the Ice Bay have been carried out. Because there is a fundamental one too. Parliament and in accordance with its Rules of Procedure, and in accordance with the Constitution, has no power and power to control the substance of the categories. In other words, we cannot control legal basis. We have the case-file sent through the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, who, as the Rules of Procedure says, has carried out control. And it's not just the Rules of Procedure. I would remind you that there is also a circular of the Prosecutor of the Ice Arrow, Mr Linos to the Advocates of the First Chamber, who handle the relevant proceedings, on how they should act before they give the prosecutor of the Ice Bay the relevant case-file. Therefore, these issues have little - very much resolved. Since this case-file - and I am referring first to Mrs Adamopoulou - has been forwarded through the prosecutor of the Ice Arrow, the House can only give an opinion on whether or not the authorisation is appropriate, in accordance with the Constitution. And the Constitution, after the last revision, is absolutely clear. It refers only to the parliamentary and political activity of the Member. Only when it falls within these activities can the House not grant permission. In this case, what do we have? In Mrs Adamopoulou, we have the application of Rule 61, which is, as Mr Katrugalos rightly said, the irresponsibleness of the Member. Article 61(2) excludes the offence of slandering. I repeat and stress. Neither the committee nor Parliament controls the validity of the charge. On the basis of the facts of inclination and of litigation, therefore, they constitute, as they come to judgment, the offence of slandering. That's why we'll be called to decide. And we will decide, on the basis of the restrictive framework laid down in Article 61(2) of the Constitution, whether this infringes the exception of the rule and is a crime which has been slandered by a Member of Parliament. On the subject of Mr Polakis, as I read, the incident has to do with the fact that paragraph 8 of the Rules of Procedure is being violated, according to which a new request for prosecution based on the same facts is unacceptable. As you have pointed out, Mr President, we have a quasi-judicial application of the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure and of the judiciary, i.e. whether the same facts exist. And what are the same facts? For slandering, the same untrue events that have been said at the same time by the same person against the same person. So here, the previous inclination and case in which the House has dealt with me, I think, is totally irrelevant. He was referring to websites from the constituency of Mr Polakis's colleague on events quite different from what we have before us today, and we must look at the inclination of the person concerned and, of course, at another time. Therefore, the facts, as they are meant by the provisions of the Criminal Code, the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and of the Constitution, are not the same. It's completely different. Consequently, there is no case for applying Article 83(8). Mr President, it is not right that what has been said is that the committee is entitled to turn back proceedings or send back to the prosecutor for inspection. Such a right does not give either the Constitution or the Rules of Parliament. The House simply delivers its opinion and the plenary decides. So today, on the basis of the committee's proposal, the plenary will decide whether the first offence, Mrs Adamopoulos, which is also the objection, is an offence of slandering, so it can, on the basis of Rule 83, be authorized by the House to prosecute or, in any event, to inspect the colleague and the second offence, if these facts fall within the parliamentary or political activity of Mr Polakis. That is all, Mr President. In the majority view, both objections relating to the incidental issues should be rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u105	However, I repeat what I said at the beginning. That's the main issue. Mr. Janakopoulos, I want you to tell me if the violation of the constitution is an incident. What's the main issue today? It is independent if it goes or does not go the matter and what you will vote on. That's another matter. In addition, opinions on the others have been heard in committee and Mr Giokas has developed them. That's not the problem. There is no question here of a major issue. The main issue is this. What the Conference of Presidents said, I will read them later. I asked him to bring them to me. Nor can we go to the beginning of the pleading. Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor. I don't give you time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, with regard to what is and is not an incidental issue, it is an incident which is all that arises in the course of the parliamentary procedure and in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, prevents or affects the debate or decision on the main issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u107	Tell me about the main issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u108	As Mr Katrugalos explained, using specific legal arguments, in the opinion of the two Members who tabled this request, namely, Mr Katrugalos and Mr Dritsa, these two cases should not have been brought into Parliament at all - this is the incidental issue - and the committee should not have brought this House in its position to vote for or against the waiver of immunity. That is the incidental issue. Simple as that. You think this will be solved by putting this House in favour of or against the lifting of immunity. We are telling you that the committee should not even have introduced these two cases for discussion in plenary. Now I'm going to the main theme of my position. Mr President, we are in a treaty of peculiar democratic diversion. And I take very good care of what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u109	Let's not extend it. In another plenary this can be said. This is where we have immunity. We can't, Mr. Janakopoulos, get away from this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u110	I didn't interrupt you. We are in a treaty of democratic diversion and amid an operation...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u111	Is this a matter now? I understand the incident won't come out. Let's go someplace else now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u112	You'll hear why it's related to the bypass.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u113	Why don't you put time on it, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u114	We are also in the middle of an operation on the part of the government and the Coupling...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u115	Are we going to have a political conversation? That's what they heard yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u116	to build a police state. It is a moment for this operation that is currently taking place in the House. This is not about conflicting legal interpretations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u117	You're in the House, Mr. Comrade. The MPs will decide. It's a sovereign body.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u118	Will you let me, Mr. President, develop my thoughts?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u119	But you're going to other issues now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u120	Will you let me develop my mind, or will you feed us in here? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u121	As long as you want to talk, but on the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u122	So we don't have to deal with conflicting legal interpretations here. We are dealing with legal arguments, the inspiration of which is also the President, Mr Athanasios, who conceal political feasibility. What is the political feasibility of these legal arguments? Create a climate of intimidation and intimidation of MPs - you, too, as chairman of the committee, therefore, Mr Athanasios - in order to limit their criticism, silence, back in relation to positions, opinions, assessments, opinions, political and social fronts. This operation of the building of the police state has been expressed multiplely over the last few years. The incident of the start of the preliminary examination procedure against three parties leaders, Mr Tsipras, Mr Koutsouba from the Communist Party and Mr Varoufakis from the Mera25, is part of this operation. And I'll explain why. No one has ever claimed that MPs are above the law. But what does the Constitution say in relation to MPs? Rule 61 states that the Member of Parliament, as long as the parliamentary term, is neither persecuted nor imprisoned nor in any other way restricted without permission from this House. So how does a prosecutor without the permission of this House launch a preliminary examination to examine whether the restriction which the Chief of Hellenic Police wanted to impose - without the permission of this House - on the day of honor and remembrance for the Polytechnics can constitute a criminal offence? This is the police state. Case 2: You insist on discussing - not Mr Buga - in relation to Mrs Adamopoulou's case on the basis of Article 62 of the Constitution, which says that parliamentary immunity is withdrawn if the offence for which the Member is accused is not related to his parliamentary duties. However, Article 62 does not apply here, Mr President, but Article 61 does apply. And what does Article 61 say? Rule 61 states that the Member is not persecuted for an opinion or for a vote he has given Parliament, except for the offence of slandering.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u123	That is the subject of the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u124	It is therefore considered that the non-examination of the relevance of the category, for which the committee and Parliament are obliged in relation to the application of Rule 62, does not apply to Article 61. On the contrary, in Rule 61 we have the possibility of considering the legal basis of the charge, and if it is manifestly unfounded - which is clearly unfounded - not even in plenary. So I say: Why is it manifestly unfounded? Because there is a case-law in this regard. We are not satisfied with the objective nature of the crime and our committee, but also with the plenary, after the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena, also have the opportunity to carry out a legal basis check. That is exactly what you have tried to bypass - and bypass - and during the debate in committee and today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u125	Please finish, Mr. Janakopoulos. I didn't put up time, but you've been talking for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u126	So the aim is obvious. You want to create a persecutive industry for slandering, so that you can limit the Members' opinion, hitting parliamentaryism in their hearts. And I'm closing up with the Polakis case. This is where we're dealing with...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u127	Listen, this is a matter of substance. When the time comes, you'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u128	I'm explaining why they shouldn't be introduced...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Janakopoulos, you're practically entering. He hasn't spoken to himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u130	If you don't like what I'm saying, you can answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u131	He hasn't spoken to himself. You'll talk about the substance later. Don't embarrass me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u132	It's abusively introduced the Polakis case...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u133	I don't want to turn off the microphone. I've never done it. And I won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u134	It's abusively put to discussion...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u135	Please! It's after. Let Mr. Paulakis speak, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u136	He wants to talk about it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u137	He's gonna do it before the preamble?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u138	Abusive...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u139	I don't understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u140	I'm not gonna stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u141	Are you going to tell me beforehand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u142	No matter how much you want to sneeze the Opposition, you won't sneeze it. Abusively, therefore, the Polakis case is being introduced for discussion. And we explained why. These are the same facts, the same opinions concerning the same person - Mr Kurtakis in particular - and for which the plenary a few months ago decided not to lift Mr Polakis' immunity. Today abusively and with obvious political feasibility is reintroduced into this House because the New Democracy MPs have neglected to come to the House, if any, or disagreed with the official line of their party. Therefore, this House should continue to vote to the extent to which the line that Mr Mitsotakis has given you, namely, to lift Mr Polakis' immunity in the case of Mr Kourtakis, will be satisfied. You have turned Parliament into a monitoring of publishing and business interests. This is a matter of credibility for Members of Parliament and dignity. I am invoking the dignity of Members so that we do not allow this curse of parliamentaryism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u143	Just to say something because he made a reference to me. I am sorry, if you say that we may be directing or aiming not only from me, but from the whole Bureau. You know my views very well. Secondly, please understand the difference between slandering in Article 61 of the Constitution and the one made in the context of 62. Only one shall be done in the House in the exercise of voting or an opinion of the Members of Parliament. The other is for political activities. Please very much. That's why the law...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u144	Listen to me. I've been listening to you for 20 minutes. You'll hear them. I'm not actually getting into it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u145	Expose. You're saying fat mistakes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u146	Leave it, Mr. Janakopoulos. Please ask Mr. Katrugalo to tell you that defamation is different. That's not the situation now. They've been a mile away. The Council of State has said so, all the authors agree and come here and say other things. Mr. Giokas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u147	Well, Mr President, there is also a major issue and an incidental issue. In fact, there is a major political issue, which is not wrong to discuss, because, unfortunately, the Ethics Committee is not talking about in public, but very serious political issues are raised and they also have indirect implications, as Mrs Adamopoulou is in this particular case, especially Mrs Adamopoulou. What is clearly the result of this accumulation of cases that we have in recent years and which we are discussing today? It follows that the efforts made by the governmental majority of the New Democracy to legitimise and inaugurate a practice for the lifting of parliamentary immunity for acts of MPs or for opinions of MPs primarily linked to their parliamentary and political activities, which is forbidden by the revised form of Article 62, which we have not voted on. We did not vote for the change in Article 62, because we thought we would be driving where we were heading.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u148	I agree with you so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u149	Mr. President, do you have to interrupt me? You're not a judge. You have confused the Bureau's office with the prosecutor's office. You have initiated this practice of waiving parliamentary immunity for acts that primarily constitute parliamentary and political activity. And it's not just Mrs. Adamopoulou. Mrs Adamopoulou is the most clear case because from the Step of the House she expressed a political opinion and a political assessment and now she is apologizing and accused. In our opinion, there are other cases, including Mr Polakis and Mrs Pulou, for which we do not agree to waive immunity. But what are you doing? Here's tactics and practice. You are starting with some cases that may have a plausibility, to legalise a tailed practice, it has implications. These tails and extensions are actually related to the Member's censorship and not to the protection of political and parliamentary activity. We're driving here! For us, Mr President, it is clear. For the JRC, it means that the Member of Parliament should support the workers, the people's struggles, show his solidarity even on a strike that you will declare illegal tomorrow, participate in a mobilisation of those which you draw bastion from and forbid them. That means political activity for us. What does political activity mean to you? Does it mean to be the MP in a glass and not be able to say and give his opinion? This is where we drive. We are leading to this regime. The road opens for a prosecuting industry against MPs. You know you'll find it in front of you, too. You are opening a pit - I have told you in committee too - where you will fall in when the Member cannot give his opinion, or when the political activity is actually not protected. That's the point. We cannot legitimise this practice. But I would also like to raise a more general issue. We, yes, think they are responsible. They have responsibility for the parties, both the New Democracy and the SYRIZA and the Change Movement that voted together to change Article 62. You made it worse. Article 62 did not need to be reviewed. The Ethics Committee, all these years, most of the cases that came to it, when it related to these matters of illegality, etc., decided unanimously to waive immunity. In most cases immunity was lifted. The change in Article 62 took place to lead to such phenomena that we are currently driving. That's your responsibility, gentlemen of SYRIZA. Now you like them, because Article 62 has become even worse. I am not talking, Mr Adamopoulou, about what would have happened if the proposal made by Mera25 had there not been any Article 62 at all. You were going to the courts and the prosecutor. We wouldn't even have had a conversation. That's what we were talking about at the time. And now, we find them in front of us. We're not afraid. We don't legalise such practices. We are not afraid because the world, the MPs, the members, the members of the JRC are on the move. But I'm telling you, you're opening dangerous paths that you're going to fall in.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Gioka, I told you in committee. The Communist Party of Greece, with regard to the revision of Article 62, is consistent. At the moment, however, it has been voted on. It's a constitutional provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u151	I told you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u152	We don't disagree. Listen...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u153	Even in its present form, which we have not voted on, it is being overtaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u154	I'll answer you. It's a provision. It's true. We must implement it. I agree with the theoretical part of the political analysis that you have said about what political activity means. I have no objections. I'm signing it. But we're looking at the real, specific incident if it comes under there. You decide...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u155	You're overreacting. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u156	Every Member of Parliament, by his vote here, decides. That is why I say that is the main issue and that is not an incident. We're not talking differently. With your analysis, of course, I agree with you. If there is one particular event, one reason whether it is slanderous or hybrid in this activity is the request. And that is the decision taken by the House in its vote. Mr Mylonis has the floor, because he has to participate in a committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. If you want, I can say a few words about this. I mean, for everyone to understand, this and we must be reasonable: the beginning of the Greek Solution is that no one is above the laws. That's the first. However, there are things that are reasonable, such as what happened in the exercise of Mrs Adamopoulou's parliamentary duties, which I was present, where she got up and made her planned speech. This issue of a union complaint, we looked into it. We talked to the police officers' associations. There's no offense here. He didn't blame anyone. We're talking objectively now. And we don't speak theoretically. We're talking practically. So the Greek solution is in favour of Members, like all citizens, being tried by their natural judges, but of whom they are told in Parliament in the exercise of their parliamentary duties, and I say it about Mrs Adamopoulou. If you want, because I have to go to the Committee on Institutional Affairs and Transparency, to say on my point, because I am also to waive immunity for a minute. I won't delay you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u158	Yes, that's all right, that's all right, that's all right, that's all right, that's all right. Give him the floor, the world's not gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Voutsi, seconds, I won't be late.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u160	I note that Mr Mylonakis in the committee said that he wanted immunity to be waived, but in any case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u161	Yeah, yeah, that's true. It was our beginning. But we talked again, and the President came here before us, we saw and looked into the matter very much. Well, that's objectively what we call it. We are in favour of lifting immunity on matters relating to life. But for political life, and within the Greek Parliament, if we say a word and do not touch a person personally, that is what is happening with Mrs Adamopoulou. He didn't touch anyone in our humble position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u162	Leave Mrs. Adamopoulou. Just say it for you. Just say your own thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u163	Yeah, yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, I call for my immunity to be waived. It's a case...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u164	What are we talking about, Mr President? Why do you let him continue? We're talking about the incident.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u165	Just a minute, let me go. Second minutes. I won't be late, Mrs. Cassimatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u166	We've made it up - down the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u167	He has to go to committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u168	Here's the litigation, which the House has for whoever wants. It is a 2013 case, where on 16-5-2013 I was invited to an EXTRA show, the show "On the spider web", which was held by Mr. Spinos, the journalist. It was a show, an issue concerning the complaint of a president of the Association of Ecclesiastes in Porto Heli, "accurate fence in the crossing towards the cavalry and fence of the Agialo". The Prosecutor's office had submitted all these information and was involved in a shipowner, regretted now, who had flouted the road in 2013. It was the case of Matius in 2018 precisely, the world could not go to the sea. That's what the show came up for. At the last minute, the president of the settlement did not want the air broadcast to come out for several reasons, and I said in particular: I was accused of being punished and punished in the first place for ten months in prison, and I have gone to the second degree - that at the last minute, while they report to the press offices, they are denouncing something very serious about society and not coming to denounce and defend it, as they ask for at first, two things happen: or that they have been found with the businessman, I do not know how they have found them and that they are a rat. You can't scare anyone if you don't have to support it. Because I want to be, as I've told you, always accurate, the case has been separated, because I'm a Member of Parliament, from Mr. Spino. Ten months we had eaten first, on 19 November it became the secondary one. I was surprised: "He declares him innocent because of treacherous doubts" etc. He was acquitted, but that is what we need to look at, how easily one first judge punishes and secondary, tripartite, acquitted. Thank you very much. I would again ask for my immunity to be lifted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u169	Mrs Bakadima has the floor. And to you, Mrs. Bakadima, we're not putting time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, we also have to strike you at risk, because you are actually walking along the line of constitutional diversion. Mrs Adamopoulou's case was the circumstance of the exercise of parliamentary duties. He spoke from the Step of the House as the patron of Mera25 in the bill on meetings. We should not even discuss forensics, Mr Buga. You know better than me that you should not even come and talk about it today in Parliament's plenary. Because you know very well, you are all aware, since you are most lawyers, that it is not only the exercise of parliamentary duties, but it is the highest duty of a Member when he goes up to the Stepping of the House and defends his party's opinion, he speaks on behalf of his party for a bill. However, when Mrs Adamopoulou spoke at the same time, neither the Members who were down, nor the Bureau, of course, should, if she considered that she should actually reconstruct what she said and ask her at that time. Nobody asked. It was written in the Minutes because it wasn't slandering. Maybe some association thought she was affected. It is a presumption, however, that he did not make a nominal reference. He expressed something we have heard called quite often. However, the fact that we are here today to discuss this is a conscious attempt by the New Democracy to criminalise political speech, to intimidate Greek MPs, in order to reduce the reactions. You really want, as Mr Gkiokas said, to put us in a glass so that you do not have a equivalent to what you are trying to do and that you have slowly started to pass and legislate. We won't allow it. If we cannot express ourselves from the Step of the House, then I am sorry, I will say something very heavy, but not only are we talking about a diversion and a refractory interpretation of the Constitution, but we are talking about practices that turn us into very bad times in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u171	I want to say something about what you mentioned about glasses, etc. The House recently, by a large majority, did not calm down the immunity of your party's President and the committee's proposal by a large majority, and in today's subject, it said not to be lifted. Where do you see political purposes? Stay away from us these things. The former President of Parliament, Mr Butsi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, I feel the need to make a political statement. I will not go into the facts because, for reasons of political dignity, it is clear that I do not accept the fact that, according to the editor, Mr Kourtakis, the issue of Mr Polakis has come again with an intermediate self-determination from some - very few fortunately - majority MPs who had said 'I am sorry, I was wrong'. It's a disgrace. I am not going to mention either the fact that there are certain statements, even party leaders, within the House on the matter of Mrs Adamopoulou's speech on the storms or problems that have arisen over time and have been presented in public events, demonstrations through extreme evidence, possibly by the Security Body. These are tabled. I would like to say to you that during the previous period - and you know very well why we had worked together - there had been repeated appeals for topical issues in connection with speeches that we had made in this House either concerning the Prespecies Agreement, the German compensation agreement, or the Golden Dawn in relation to some persons who, in fact, had mentioned that they had participated in the event that they had taken place to make 'double' in the House with the incidents that took place, etc. We had a crowd of out-of-courts just for these objections. They were also nominal for Members of the Greek Parliament. There was obviously no understanding of these issues - beyond the legal path that either the paccedonian organizations or the Golden Dawn had chosen, and so forth. - to incriminate. I want to be very direct. Today's sitting, Mr President, can indeed have or have a historical character with a very negative sign. I will tell you something that we all know, not only the older or the younger, because it was written. It is an element of the history of this area, the history of parliamentaryism, the history of our country's adventure sixty years ago, about what had happened inside the Greek Parliament. Then a party leader of the Left had said from a Step of the House, named by a Step of the House and even in the pre-declaration, in the post-parent, in the regime, then, he had said by name about George Papadopoulos, who was a Major at the time, that he had made provocations with sugar, etc., that he had complained that he had made provocations in the tanks in Evros and said, "notice, because something tells me that this gentleman will tie us up after a year and a half". It is a place - you know it very well - of our country's historic route. Why do I mention it? No one was then understood in that regime and before the revision of the post-government Constitution, which is also a progressive constitution, in any case in the sense of its general horizon, no one was contemplated, not George Papadopoulos, not the HNDGS, not the police and military associations, but anyone who would be invoked by a MP, a party president and say that it was a slandering defamation, because there was no evidence of this provocation that Papadopoulos did then. Nobody! On neither side of the parties has such an issue. And now, sixty years later, fifty-seven years later - I think it was two and a half years before the dictatorship was imposed - we are having this debate. The fact that this debate is taking place - and there I fully agree with my voice with colleagues from the parties who raised the incident with their historical and political dimension - is precisely where I join my voice with this statement that it is out of the question, apart from a misdemeanour in the public area - I said it last week about the other bill - or about the slandering defamation of personal, person and other things, to come to a debate on one or the other and that it would never be possible for reports from the Step of this House to be prosecuted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, that is what you have said in Rule 61. I, as a ordinary citizen, wonder. Because, before the review, the Members were arrested, we were accused of having favorable criminal treatment. And that's what happened now. For example, if a Member of Parliament says of a citizen on the continent, let's say he's a traitor, is he a thief, he made a crook or anything, shouldn't the MP be controlled? Is it above other citizens? That's what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u174	Come on. Don't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u175	Listen. You know exactly what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u176	Are you President or are you abusing the Chair? That's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u177	Leave it, Mr. Janakopoulos. I've heard enough. We're having a dialogue. We're talking. I'm having a problem. There is another point in the vote or the opinion with Article 61, which is limited to being the Member and to swearing one from the outside. I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u178	Are you kidding us? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u179	He says he's a trafficker, for example, without proof. Will the MEP remain in the unavoidable? We made the arrangements. Do not apply them? I can't understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u180	That's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u181	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u182	If we give the floor now, the circle will start again. But you Members of Parliament, as long as we are making a statement on...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u183	If you want to get in position, get down. You need to get out of the Chair and talk underneath!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u184	Get down! Stop what you're doing now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u185	Listen, I am the chairman of the committee and they have arrived in committee. We're having a dialogue. Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u186	You're misusing the Land. Get down!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u187	Get down!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u188	In the incidents, they ask for the substance...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, you have gone far too far! That's enough of the show!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u190	Tell that to your party!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u191	In any case, Mr Janakopoulos thinks or does not know the Rules of Procedure well. According to another provision, in 66, the Member actually speaks of the substance of the matter, cannot speak from here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u192	We've been telling you all along.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u193	This is an inappropriate matter, and it has been referred to the committee. On the backdrop, he can talk. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Anyone who wants to be a parliamentarian can speak for a minute. Here, Mr. Bouga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, I asked for the floor because Mr Janakopoulos and the other colleagues who spoke after him to confirm what I had said in my previous position in the first place, that there is no incidental issue. They just needed time to develop their ideological positions. And it has not only been confirmed by the reason given by my colleagues, but also by what the former President of Parliament has said, which I honour and respect. However, I would like to make four points and these points, Mr President, are made because, just before what has been said in the House, we have experienced a parliamentary diversion, which I shall explain immediately. Mr Janakopoulou, it is a parliamentary diversion to ask for the floor in order to raise an incidental issue and through it, by circumventing the Rules of Procedure, to develop your ideological positions. But that's the least. It's, Mr. Janakopoulos, parliamentary diversion...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u195	Let go. He said his views here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, that is what I am saying. But, because he talked about a constitutional diversion, I speak documentarily. They took the country a while ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u197	Respond!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u198	Listen to me, Mr. Janakopoulos. That's what I'm telling you, my positions, in response to what you said! Mr President, it was neither too much nor very much said by the Vice-Presidents that the House should monitor the legal basis or not of the charge. Do you know what that means, Mr. Comrade? Direct substitution to the work of judicial authority! The House does not intervene to check whether it is legal or not. That's what the Ice Arrow Attorney does. Because with this perception you understand that the House is substituting the public prosecutor's authority to control the lawful soundness of the charge. On the third point which has been said, Mr President, we have the provision in Rule 61(2) of the Rules of Procedure which says that the Member can vote and say anything he considers needs to say in support of his party's positions and in support of his party's views, but he is not entitled to be subject to the offence of slandering. It is something that neither is entitled to do indictees at the sacred moment of apology. So, with what my colleagues have said, they are asking that Article 61(2) should not apply under any circumstances. Because that's where we end up. Whatever the Member says, which is parliamentaryally slandering for any third party, because he has been told in the exercise of his parliamentary duties by the Step forward of this House or by a committee of Parliament, immunity should automatically not be waived! That is to say, the provision of 61(2). Why tell me: When will this provision finally be implemented if we exclude all the cases where you have referred to? I would like to point out, Mr President, before I refer to the fourth point, a very great political hypocrisy. My colleague from Mera25 was a special speaker in the Revision Committee of the Constitution recently in 2019. From the Minutes, therefore, I read the positions which he had supported on Article 62, which was then a provision under review. So she said: 'We therefore support the simple and understandable one: no preferential treatment, no discrimination in criminal matters between citizens and MPs or ministers. As for the citizen, both for the Member and for the Minister. This also dictates the principle of equality, no prerogatives, no discrimination. Instead of wanting politicians to be examples of equality and honesty in the consciousness of the people, we reserve ourselves other treatment. We are not citizens of another category." And he comes here and defends the right not to be inspected by the Member of Parliament for a charge which the prosecutor has charged him and wants to investigate. And fourthly, as you can see, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is not about the legal unfounded or whether it has or does not have the power of the House. These are obvious and have been said. This debate is taking place in order to attack the opposition once again for the so-called police state, an ideological invention which you are currently using to personally attack the Civilian Minister and the government as a whole. Police state doesn't exist. What exists is that the Left unfortunately demands the privilege of violating the laws without being controlled. The tolerance of society, ladies and gentlemen, is over. What is controlled by the ordinary citizen will also be controlled by the Member. You need to understand that. When the law is violated by the MP, it will be dealt with by any citizen. And one final thing, Mr President: I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u199	Finish it, please. Ladies and gentlemen, you will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u200	I think that the reference made by Mr Voutsi was unsatisfactory - with all due respect I say and appreciation to his face - because he referred to the events of a period of turmoil for Greek political life, which he tried to adapt to the current data. I won't say any more. I believe, however, that this reference and the relationship he has attempted to make was unsuccessful.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u201	You will be given the floor. I told you again that as long as the cycle takes place, the floor will be given. Mr. Janakopoulos will be speaking, Mr. Giokas. Here, Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor too. I don't give time, please keep him, you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u202	Now listen. It's interesting what Mr. Katrugalos told me just now. Do you know Mr. Tasoula's case with Mr. Chalkidzis? Do you have her in mind?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u203	How come we don't have her?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u204	Oh, you have it. Now here's what happened in this case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u205	You refer to the court ruling.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u206	Yeah, that's exactly where I'm talking. You'll hear me. He had filed a slandering appeal to the current President of the Parliament for something he had said and the House refused to grant permission to go ahead, precisely considering that there was no case of slandering on the basis of what he called or on the basis of what Mr Tasoula said. So what is the only party that deals with this issue 'has got its nest'? The New Democracy, because you did, in the case of Mr Tasoula, exactly what you are not willing to do now, in other words, judge whether the law is manifestly unfounded or not, and obviously you did not think it is manifestly unfounded, that there is a political feasibility, as in today's two cases, and then you refused to grant permission to continue the prosecution of the current President of the Parliament. But what happened? Mr. Tasoulus filed an indictment against Mr. Tsalkidzis, who continued and took the street of the court. And what did the European Court of Human Rights say? That this is where the principle of arms equality was violated in the criminal trial. So you from New Democracy can't even take a second's lessons on the Left for the way it has been placed here today. The President said so. This is a historic moment, because you are actually seeking to reduce, limit, silence and retreat Members. And the lessons are kept for your party and for yourself, Mr. President. So let's go now a little bit further. What did Mr. Bugas tell us a moment ago? That at any time a citizen or political opponent considers that he has been slandered by the Step of the House, has the opportunity to file an indictment and this without a second debate must take the way of the court. That's what you told us!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u207	And when do you say it has to go the way of justice?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u208	When the House considers that it is manifestly unfounded that what the political opponent claims is unfounded. And this is what the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution give as a possibility for this House, to say that there is a lack of political feasibility here, or to say that this is a manifestly unfounded indictment and I do not give permission, as you have done for Mr Tassoula. That's right, it's not going to be the case, it's going to be history. The European Court of Justice also held it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u209	So there is a crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u210	So there's a potion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u211	There's a crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u212	There's a potion. That's exactly what we've been telling you for so long! That's exactly what we've been telling you for so long and you won't even agree to enter into a debate, because you're serving a political plan...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u213	Not on the incident, on the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u214	Please don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u215	.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. And you are now self-sufficient parliamentary diversions, which will be written in the country's parliamentary and political history.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u216	Mr. Giokas has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u218	No, Mrs. Cassimatis, only the Members will speak. Here, Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, you are trying, and Mr Bougas and you, with certain tricks, to legitimise, I repeat, an unacceptable practice. What does a Member of Parliament have to do with exalting a citizen will describe him as 'will', with what Mrs Adamopoulou said from the Step forward as a political assessment and as a political crisis which has been heard many times? What does one have to do with the other? But you're trying to legitimize a practice like that. What's this practice? Mr. Bugas revealed it and we don't have to say much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u220	I'm sorry, I didn't answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u221	Mr President, Mr Bugas exposed the practice. We don't have to say a lot of things. Mr Bougas clearly said that here, not the ideological and political implications. So, the MP in glass! You're the congressman! No ideological and political implications! That's what you want! And of course, what he said and developed was a manifesto for why Article 62 should not exist at all. That's what he said! If you take from the beginning to the end what Mr Bugas said is a manifesto, a argument about why Article 62 must not be at all protected and the political activity of the Member should not be protected at all. He exposed you! He said it! That's what you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u222	They're approaches...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u223	What Mr Bougas says is what you do in excess of Article 62 which, I repeat, we have not voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u224	I know that, they've said it. They're interpretations. Everyone's reading it. Opinions are respected. Mrs Bakadima has the floor and then Mr Heitas who has not spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u226	Mr. President, may I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u227	Ladies and gentlemen, I too understand that I have to follow the order of business, that the Members of this House who do not exist - in introductory terms - should leave and stay in the two cases. Of course, they are now all late. In any case, Mrs Bakadima, would you like to say something further about what your colleagues have said?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u228	For only thirty seconds, Mr President, I will not need any more. Unfortunately, the response of the New Democracy colleague also confirms what the whole Opposition says from the outset, that you are trying to fade. I understand, as all of you, your need and your agonizing effort, which is obvious, to find a way to keep behind a distorted debate that should not be done in any way today. We understand your agonizing effort to justify unjustified, but unfortunately to criminalize yourself, using a refractive interpretation of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of this House, will not lead anywhere. You start, we go, you put us on a very bad road and today is Mrs Adamopoulou, tomorrow may be a Member of the New Democracy. You said, Mr Colleague, if we want to, that there is no time at all when the case of slandering will be implemented. Mrs. Adamopoulou was not mentioned by name, you know, to make sure she exists...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u229	That is the point of the vote. That's it! Let him go by the way. In the vote these are the ones. We're talking about intercept.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u230	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u231	Mr Colleague, you are a legal person and should be more careful in the expressions you use and in the way you interpret.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, we are talking about the incident. The vote will take place at that time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u233	Please. If it is a matter of staff, you will answer whether or not it is damaged. Here you go, Mrs. Bakadima, finish it. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u234	I shall conclude, Mr President. We therefore believe that the reason you are using today's debate is pretext. It is a way of warning to all Members and you will find us all in front of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u235	Mr. Hetas has the floor and we're done. Then we'll get into the cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u236	Mr President, we feel the need, by following this whole process today, to repeat this: we will not be taking part in the effort, either on the one hand or on the other, and at the disposal of both sides, to develop their ideology or anything else. We have entered the Greek Parliament on one condition, which I believe we are observing. We have come to represent and represent the logic, if you like. So what does logic say? Mr. Buga, I'd like to ask you something. In my speech the other day on the budget - we had the budget debate - I mentioned and said that there are no controls. So I hinted that, for example, the AIA is not doing its job well. So, if a AIA representative wakes up tomorrow, he'll sue me for a slandering defamation that he doesn't do his job well? And I'm going to apologize? Listen. If as a Member outside Parliament I go and bend someone I have in front of me, of course no one is above the law. However, if the President of the Greek Solution comes and makes a hard criticism of the Ministry of Immigration and imply that he is not doing his job - for example, I say now - will an employee of FRONTEX or the Ministry of Immigration go to sue him for slandering, implying that border guards, for example, do not do their job well and enters every walnut? I'm just saying things now! Listen. To make it clear, no one's above the law. The MPs have no special gift, nor are they men of a higher god. But there must be one logic in the exercise of our parliamentary duties, without going too far. We are not saying that we are half-hearted and can do whatever we want here and swear the world, but there is logic. But I would like to say something. Does this Parliament and this committee make sense? So, should not her immunity be lifted on such a matter? So, does this have to be done now, because a union or anyone else is referring to it? I say it beyond party positions, beyond ideologies, whatever. He said the logic. Let me say that this lady here went and slammed a man from the Stepping of the House, saying, "Let her go to judge her." So I'm afraid tomorrow to speak, express myself and make a tough criticism, because one, anyone can come and sue me for slandering. We're opening up, that is, we're opening the ace of Halos. We'll have to figure it out. So I'm saying something again and I'm closing up, Mr President. I believe that we represent the logic in this House. So the logic is clear as to what needs to be done. We must stay away from party controversy, ideologies and ideas and see reasoning in order to protect Parliament. No one is above the laws, but always in a reasonable manner, because we are opening up - I say again - the law of Halos. Everyone here today will be able to sue for slandering because they did not like what we said from a step of the House and say that I slandered him. These aren't serious things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u237	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Dritsa, you'll talk about this later when you need to talk about cases. Now you cannot, because the parliamentary representatives are speaking. If you talk, they'll talk more. Please don't embarrass me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u240	I would like to speak on a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u241	You can talk then. Then I'll give you the floor. This thing can't be done. The Rules of Procedure are clear. What can we do now? Is it possible for everyone to talk about the intercept? It can't be done. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u242	On a point of order, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u243	What process? Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u244	For the process you're following!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u245	Let go, don't everybody interfere now. Please. On many occasions all the Presidents and Members have been present, and now they are not close to the limits of the Rules of Procedure, there is a tolerance. All right, Mr. Dritsas has signed his application for the intercept. In any case, by way of derogation, Mr Dritsa, you have the floor for a minute. When we want to invoke the Rules of Procedure, when we do not want to, we do not invoke it. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute on a point of order. There are two issues which are procedural. As you know, why I came to the Chair and informed you, I sign with my colleague George Karugalo the request for the intervening debate. I wanted to talk to you, too. You told me that I have no right, that one speaks and that I will talk later when the individual issues are raised. I accepted it. I see more hands. Because the debate has been very widened, I would propose that I and those of the others who want, now, at this stage, not to create other circles. It would be more functional and much more complete and close this. And how can it close? By vote, Mr President. It can't be your decision. And let each party assume its responsibility, because it is precisely historical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u247	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u248	You want to talk about the intercept?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u249	For everything. Leave them by the way, Mr President, we are talking about democracy here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u250	Okay. It's okay. The Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u251	Listen, Mr President, I entered the Greek Parliament to give my opinion. If I'm afraid that when I make my point of view, someone who's going to be annoyed by a social group will sue me, it means you're getting me out of your mind. And I say it in public. Suffocation must not pass through here. What are these things? What are New Democracy Members doing? Do you know what you're doing? Tomorrow morning, a Member of your Parliament will say something of your own and will have the right of anyone, because he has been disturbed, to sue him. Do we understand what's going on in here? Then how do we talk freely? Where's the limo? And I'm not talking about constitutions. I say the logic, Mr President. Let's stop the political party game. Let's talk a little seriously, because if every time we get up there, we filter everything we say... Clearly there's a point on our part, but up to a point. Okay, he said something about the good colleague, who bothered some of them, some of them from northern Greece. I get it. But he didn't say that twat is the crook. He didn't say he was the thief. He didn't say he was the para-state. Or didn't I say there were parastates in the police, gentlemen? Let's sue me, too. I've said it myself. I've said it from the Step of the House. Aren't there any para-staters? Doesn't anybody know that in here? There have never been para-states since 1974 and then para-states in the Greek Police. There are always. I'm afraid so. A few. But not to apologise to my fellow Member and go to court because she has simply said what is self-evident. No, guys, don't do that. Self-criticism to the MP, everyone separately, yes. No, however, censorship is prejudicial to anyone who is affected. We are all going to the courts, but on one condition: the Member is not sneezing. If the MP is faded, democracy is over, close the House and go home. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u252	I believe that there is no incidental issue, ladies and gentlemen, on both of these incidents in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u253	You can't decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u254	Let go. I'm saying the Rules of Procedure, so I can do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, read Rule 67. When there are objections...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u256	There is no incidental issue, ladies and gentlemen. Rules say that to me. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Wait. Please. The Rules of Procedure are clear. I can explain why there is no interference. Because it's the main issue. No one explained what the main issue is. Let me take the first order in front of me, paragraph 8 of Article 83, which says that this issue has been resolved, and so on. It's another base. It has nothing to do with each other, one of Mrs Adamopoulou's cases then. Then, it is a subject that is the main topic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u257	But there is an objection!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u258	In any case, the Rules of Procedure say that if objections are raised about what the President says, the House shall decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u259	Yes, sir! Upgrade or uprising.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u260	So how will the House decide today, bringing the thoughts and practices of the Conference of Presidents and the practice it has been dealing with so far, in view of the fact that we cannot invite the whole world here now? We have said - and it is also a proposal from the President - that, if a roll-call vote is required and cannot be held in accordance with the provisions laid down, it is the principle of declared. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u261	No, Mr President, there is no nominal provision in this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Catrugale, at least you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u263	Please allow me and I'll make it easier. Allow me and you will answer what I am going to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u264	Wait a minute. Yeah, but he'll ask...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u265	The Rules of Procedure shall lay down on these matters of the intervener, not roll-call votes. Elevation or uplifting. The decisions taken at the Conference of Presidents on roll-call voting and roll-call vote are not applicable here. So you have two possibilities, Mr President: Or you should raise the question of the decision on the intervener or, if you wish, postpone. But you can't bypass. The incident must therefore be raised in plenary as soon as it has been objected, on the basis of the express provision in paragraph 7. One way of deciding on this is by climbing or raising the hand. There is no possibility of a roll-call vote for the incident. So the decisions of the Conference of Presidents are inapplicable. If you do not want to continue something that actually started as a diversion with a parliamentary coup, one of these two solutions is one. In order not to prejudge the absence of New Democracy colleagues, because it is only two now, postponement. Otherwise, put it right now to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u266	Mr. Catrugale, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u267	Let's vote now, President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u268	Let go of that now! Let me talk too! Mr. Catrugale, listen...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u269	It's become...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u270	Let go, Mr. Polakis, now. Please! It's been done on a major issue, and it's been accepted...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u271	It's a big one!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u272	...for anti-constitutional provisions and you're coming now and you're telling me it's not going to be for this? It's about the major theme in the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u273	In your mind, it's not major.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u274	Listen, Mr. Janakopoulos, this. Either you interrupt, do not interrupt, because it is the President's decision and is finally in the House's crisis, you will listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u275	You're not a prosecutor here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u276	And the upturn in unconstitutionalism on a coronary has been the same way - which is the major and dominant subject - how much more than we shall say it will not be on a shredded subject. These are anti-parliamentary. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u277	What are the anti-parliamentary?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u278	You're not entitled! You're not entitled! You're not a judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u279	But that's what happened, Mr. Dritsa. Why did you accept it in unconstitutionalism? What do you want now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u280	You speak as a judge and not as a president!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u281	You mean, blackmail, say it can't be done? Is that reasonable? There can be no question of'so I want'. It can't be done! Why did you not raise issues with this practice in this House on unconstitutionality? What are you talking about now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u282	It's not a question of...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u283	Okay. Good. You can insult them, you denounce them. There's a precedent.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u284	It's not a question of legal interpretation. It's a democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u285	It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u286	Did you finish that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u287	It has also been decided and resolved by the Conference of Presidents and, in practice, by the plenary. Well, Parliamentarians. Mr Buga, you have the floor for that. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u288	You don't even get it done!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u289	Complaint, object, do what you want, but I will observe Parliament's practice and decision. We are in the vote. Mr. Buga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u290	Mr President, two minutes are enough, because I think the matter has been exhausted in its development. Mr Janakopoulos argues that this issue is more important than the objection of anti-constitutionalism, which this issue has been judged and I think is unanimous about how to resolve issues of unconstitutionalism in this Chamber during the pandemic period. The President referred to the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u291	No such decision has been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u292	If it hasn't been decided...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u293	There's no such decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u294	Mr President, you referred to a decision of the Conference of Presidents on how to deal with an issue of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u295	Mr. Buga, the president is lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u296	Let me go and I'll explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u297	Why don't you respect the speaker? The voices don't cover the point of view. That's not even democratic. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u298	Why are you lying? That's why!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u299	You'll let them talk. You will not fade the MPs. You won't fade them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u300	Mr President, I would like to say this. At a time when the House operates because of the pandemic with restrictive measures, it is understood that it is impossible to control both the quorum of this House and the possibility of forming the required majority on matters that arise during the debate and appear either as unconstitutional issues or as incidental issues. Of course, it is possible that the Qualified Opposition can - in introductory words -'submit' an incident and cause roll-call vote without being checked, I repeat, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure due to the exceptional circumstances and measures which Parliament decides are applicable, the quorum and the majority required by the Rules and the law to form for any decision. The question of the constitutionality of a law is an essential issue, Mr President. The issue of constitutionality has to do with the preventive control which the House is entitled to exercise on whether or not a bill is a constitutional provision. So that is a fundamental issue. Is the principle of the statement actually applicable to this issue? That must be the case, ladies and gentlemen. I think that's what your logic says. I invoke what Mr Velopoulos said that we should reasonably deal with things in this House. If, therefore, the substance of the matter is to monitor the preventive constitutionality of laws by major reason, it also applies to a point of order. Because the incident, ladies and gentlemen, cannot, today, serve the party purpose of raising it on a major subject. This is what you realise that if you do so, and since that is your position, it is something that it is causing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u301	How are we going to decide on the incident, in your opinion?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u302	At the beginning of the proclamation. Especially in these circumstances, which are exceptional. We cannot in any other way decide, Mr Colleague. At the beginning of the proclamation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u303	She should be postponed then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u304	Even if it is postponed, Mr Colleague, there will still be no majority in the Rules of Procedure and the Law, neither a quorum nor a majority. You understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u305	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u306	Don't insist. Do not raise the procedural questions on matters of substance, just so that you can argue about what you ultimately want to say, that there is a police state. Mr. Voutsis said so. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u307	I repeat what I said before. It has been done on several occasions in constitutionality. There was a proposal from the Commission of the Conference of Presidents. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please. I read it to you before. Rule 14 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure has been amended, where this is the case because of COVID. Don't come over here now. You go against the Rules of Procedure. I told you. There was practice in three previous votes with anti-constitutionalisms. Now what are you coming to tell us? Where's Mr. Vitch? I saw him here. To assure you of the Conference of Presidents. For God's sake. Let's not be voted on. Let's not. That's the situation now. Here you go, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u308	You have a tendency as President-in-Office to intervene constantly in the debate, with substantial arguments. At some point you should see this and talk about it at the Conference of Presidents and with Mr Tasoula, about the way in which you run the debate here every time. In my opinion, it is a question of abuse of the Chair on your part. I'm saying it straight. Secondly, I should like to say something about what Mr Bougas invoked on the major issue and the minor issue. Listen, Mr. Buga. There is no decision by the Conference of Presidents, and most of all, a unanimous decision, how we decide on objections of unconstitutionality and on Rule 67. So please bring me this decision, bring me the minutes of the Conference of Presidents, read here, and if what I say is not the case, I will withdraw it. This House asks that we have the minutes of the Conference of Presidents in which it has been decided, and even unanimously.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u309	Article 14 has been amended, you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u310	Read the Minutes, Mr President. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u311	What are you voting for, Mr. Janakopoulos? Let's get this over with!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u312	I'm just saying I'm not voting right now. I expect you to bring me the Minutes with the decision of the Conference of Presidents and I reserve it. There is no vote now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u313	Yes, sir. Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u314	You do not have the power to vote in the way you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u315	Good. You said your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u316	You go beyond your responsibilities, and that's not my point of view, that's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u317	All right! I heard you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u318	You are now an automotive parliamentary diversion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u319	I heard you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u320	Do you understand that, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u321	Mr President, may I propose a solution?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u322	The diversion of the House continues. Very good. Mr. Kamin, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u323	Can I make a suggestion, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u324	There is no further vote. What can we do now? Here, Mr President, you are not deciding and ordering. This is Parliament, and if you don't like it, say it directly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u325	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u326	Mr. Kamin, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u327	I'll talk about my case. Right? We're entering on the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u328	No, you're voting on if there's an incidental matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u329	I didn't ask permission to talk about the incident.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u330	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u331	Mr President, may I make a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u332	What kind of way out?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u333	What proposal can you propose, Mr. Comrade? We're voting now, it's over. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u334	Mr President, Rule 67 has not been amended. You didn't invoke it either. It should therefore be implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u335	But please! Applied. What do you want us to do here now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u336	Let me conclude by saying that you have given me the floor. You accepted that 67 has not been modified.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u337	For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u338	I repeat Article 67 has not been amended. It provides for a specific uplift or uplift procedure. If there is the incidental issue, what you say is not an incidental issue is contradictory as to the fact that you have allowed a debate to take place. It has to come to a vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u339	Mr. Catrugale...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u340	Only the debate on the substance of the motions for waivers of immunity which are not covered by the incident could proceed. I say this in order to make it easier for you not to have a parliamentary coup.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u341	The special issue is how to vote in plenary because of the urgent situation of the Coronary. It was decided by the Conference - I do not remember whether it was a majority or a unanimity - it was amended 14 and it was applied three times in unconstitutionalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u342	Oh, you don't remember! Can you get us the Practical?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u343	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u344	Here you go, Mr. Gioka.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u345	We, Mr President, do not enter the voting procedure. An incidental point has been raised, there is a specific Rule of the Rules of Procedure which has not been amended, which provides for a specific voting procedure by lifting or by lifting, and from what we know there is no decision of the Conference of Presidents, which provides for another way of voting, either on the incidental issues or on the issues of unconstitutionalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u346	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u347	Consequently, since there are two cases of waiver of immunity, on which a specific issue has been raised, the debate on the other cases has been withdrawn and the debate has been continued. We are not voting against the Rules of Procedure, because we will end up - and it has already begun to happen - that the government and the parliamentary majority will normally run the legislative work and other issues and the weapons that the House rules have in opposition and that are given to it to be cancelled. That's what's happening, it's begun and done with the pandemic. We are therefore not going to legitimize this. To apply the Rules of Procedure either now or, of course, after they have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u348	Indeed, paragraph 7 of the 67 has not been amended, I accept that, Mr Gioka. But Article 100(2) has not been amended for constitutionality. The special provision of Article 14 which covers them shall therefore apply. So it has been implemented many times. Mr. Constantine Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u349	I'll talk about history and the Minutes. I am a new parliamentarian, Mr President, but the book of the Constitution is as you can see, "worked" very much, i.e. I am trying for the best. 'The House may not decide without an absolute majority of the Members present, but may never be less than 1/4 of the total number of Members. In the event of a tie, it shall be repeated...’. That's what he says. Let's go down. Does it matter what we vote on? I wonder why you invite us to participate in something that doesn't make sense and is unreasonable? And what to vote on, since yours is going to happen. Does it matter that we vote on something that doesn't make sense that we've been living for two hours? I should like to mention that the revised New Democracy article 62 during the constitutional review - because I was a rapporteur and I remember it, and my colleagues helped me through it - we voted against it. Mr President, this is not an incident here, we are losing the essence of the case again. Is that our thing? What are we going to vote for, the JRC, SYRIZA, the New Democracy? This is where the ball has been lost today, Mr President. Our issue is democracy and libertarianism. It's not about intercept. This is where our democracy and liberty are rushing! That's what you're going to do. I wonder how you're going to do it, really! And again, to be clear, the Greek Solution stays away - we separate it - from your ideological games or whatever each party exploits at all times to make an exhibition of ideas or to center and scratch its party springs and anything else. Get away from them. But - and I say it again and end - the logic ahead. Mr President, the Greek Parliament cannot fade to the Greek Members! You can't do that! We have to be reasonable. Mr. Buga, I'm telling you again, in your next speech, although you're very modest, I'll have people of mine listen to you and sue you. They'll find a way. You must have defamated them somewhere. Is this a nice job to open? What kind of door is that we're opening here? Let us see, Mr President, what we are voting on and what we are not! This isn't a picture! Where's the government today? Where is the New Democracy, Mr President? Is two people here on such important issues that our democracy is playing? That's what we see. These are the essentials. Halima's bypass and fairy tales!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u350	Explain that we are two people present, because the decision has been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u351	Thank you. Mrs Bakadima has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u352	Mr President, we will not even vote for a very simple reason. You have made a rag both of the Constitution and of the Rules of Procedure of the House. You are calling for decisions of the Conference that we do not even know how they came about. Therefore, the Opposition.... [[Noise in the Chamber]] ...how rather you have them, even worse. I close because the debate has lasted very long, although it is extremely essential and we have to do it, with the following: Opposition will not deprive you of the constitutional and parliamentary diversion. The Rules of Parliament and the Constitution should finally apply, as they have not been implemented in your eighteen months of governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u353	Therefore, with the amendment made, Rule 14, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents, is not an incidental matter. We are now moving on one - one of the cases. The first one is Mr. Kamine. The competent Special Permanent Committee on Parliamentary Ethics...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u354	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u355	Your turn will be here. Mr. Polakis, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u356	I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u357	No, there's no procedure. We're done. It's gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u358	He's not exhausted!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u359	By the competent Special Committee on Parliamentary Ethics was announced...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u360	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u361	You don't sound. When your case comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u362	I'll yell hard. Mr President, I ask for the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u363	It's not a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u364	No, there is. We were just beginning to vote and you announced that we were voting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u365	The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report of 21-10-20 according to which members unanimously proposed to waive immunity from Mr Kamine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u366	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u367	Please, it's over. The debate will not be perpetuated here. Mr. Kamines is checking for a violation...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u368	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u369	It didn't sound, Mr. Polakis. You are insulting your colleague too. Mr Kamine as mayor had commissioned an advisory service, product distribution management supervision. The gentleman who won and took it, had a wife to the council president and allegedly participated in the process. From the Minutes, when we voted on all the issues, it seems that the president of the municipal council was in the vote, but then retired. It should be noted that this decision has been passed by all the groups of the mayor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't hear what Mr. Paulakis said leaving.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u371	It's okay, he didn't say anything. Go on, Mr. Kamine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u372	In any case, I am opposed to it. Mr President, you spoke of the case. Just to note that it is so unfounded that for all the others who were present that day on the city council and voted, the case has been filed. It has not just been filed for me, because I am a Member of Parliament, and the Advocate-General considered it appropriate to ask for the parliamentary permission to do what? In order for me, too, to put the case in the file, which, as a mayor, should have put it, I was not even a member of the municipal council, as is well known. I just want to say that today's debate, and in particular my case, proves how correct the intention we had in tabling in the Review of the Constitution, actually to overturn the presumption of proof, namely, that the institution of immunity is maintained, but that it is now obliged to be asked by the Member and to bear the burden of proof that there is political feasibility in order to waive immunity. If that were the case, we would have avoided 90% of the cases that concern us here. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u373	Is there any colleague who wants to take the floor for Mr Kamine's case? Oh, no. The vote will be taken online at the end of the day, after hearing all the cases. The second case concerns Mr Dionysio Apipe. Mr. Capis is here? Oh, no. Mr. Capis was a doctor before he became a MP. There was a patient at Zakynthos Hospital who died. The charge is for many involved in the patient’s surgery and care process. They were charged with negligent homicide. Mr Eppupis asked for his immunity to be waived. Is there a colleague who wants to talk to you about Mr. Cappi's case? Oh, no. So we're going to the vote later on, too. By the way, I'm telling you we've put all the cases now because of the coronary. That is what they said at the Conference of Presidents so that the plenary does not continue here and that Members are troubled with many votes. We'll now see the third case. This case concerns the President of Mera25, Mr Varoufakis. The charges were a crime of infidelity, that is, in accordance with Article 169 of the Criminal Code and a violation of a CSM, a government decision. He traveled to Aegina - I don't know if it's his special home - where he's home. Control was carried out on the ship and the two ports examined, they say he showed them his police identity. They insisted on the E1, but the identity was already certified by E9. There was a precedent we had here, and the House had decided not to waive the immunity of the Member. It has been stated that there is no question of disobedience, although this is not being considered, by the way, I am saying it. Here there was a political activity of the Member. Following on from what we said earlier, we considered that as a party leader it could go anywhere, because it was within the framework of its political activity. So, by a large majority, the Conference of Presidents said that its immunity should not be lifted. I don't know if there's a MP who wants to talk. If Mrs. Bakadima wants to, she can then fill in something. The two subsequent cases, which were imported separately, although they came in the same way as the Prosecutor of the Ice Arrow, concern the colleagues, Mr. Andreas Koutsoubas and Mr. Panagiou (Giota) Poulou. These colleagues were in an event of an athletic club in Aliarto on 4 July 2020, violating the relevant provisions that were in force at the time, according to which there should be no crowding, tables should be at a certain distance and only be seated while there it seemed that many were already dancing. In any case, safety measures for the coronary were not complied with. The Conference of Presidents has said that the immunity of both is waived. Mr Koutsoubas said that 'no, I do not ask for my waiver'. Mrs Pulou said that I would leave it to the committee's judgement. Mrs Pulou has the floor to tell her opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u374	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the lifting of my immunity today and I apologise for dealing with a personal matter of mine. But allow me to express my opinion, in the belief that I will help in your fuller information and objective decision. When dealing with this matter in the Committee on Institutions, I have tabled written explanations which I have detailedly recorded the history of the fact that I am being prosecuted for. Because I was surprised by the committee's decision and I think I am wrong, I would like to put the fact in your judgment. I was present on 4 July at an all-legal event, which was licensed by the competent authorities, on the basis of CSCE 40381 on 27 June 2020, which was, of course, then, revised, like the others, which are constantly being reviewed as a result of the evolving health crisis. I attended two legal events on the same day, following an invitation from the cultural club in Neochori from the Municipality of Aliartos Thespion and from the Sports Association "Highland" of the same municipality of my own constituency. My response to the invitations and my presence in the events of my region's leaders in no way combines with my personal entertainment, but is an obligation to participate in my parliamentary duties in my constituency. After all, this is proven by my short stay in them. In particular, at the event, for which I am accused, I remained to the greeting of the President of the sports club, which lasted only one hour, and left before the opening of the musical programme, as demonstrated by the announcement of this club. To the best of my knowledge, all my fellow Members are responding to their invitations, since this is still an opportunity to communicate with our institutions and fellow citizens, much more so because of our first lockdown and our forced absence because of the restrictive measures it was an opportunity to communicate again. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I am wrong in the decision of the committee, since I participated in a legitimate event and did not breach the health measures in force at the time. I would also like to remind you that at the same time both the Prime Minister and the ministers and government officials have participated in various events. I'll testify to the Minutes. Of course, I mention the following: The opening of new subway stations in Agia Varvara - Korydalos with Prime Minister Mitsotakis. Inauguration of a fire station in Grancia Carpenesiou with Mr. Chardalia. Illustrations of statue Konstantinos Palaiologos in Piraeus by Mr. Georgiadis. And of course, the opening of Omonia Square by Mayor Mr. Bakoyannis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have exercised executive power from the position of mayor of Levande in the previous period of 2014-2019 and I know clearly the framework of the obligations and rights arising from the institutional positions we serve. If I had in fact violated health measures or the laws of the State, I assure you that I would have the emoluments of taking personal responsibility, of apologies and of taking responsibility for the personal responsibilities that they would be responsible for me. However, since injustice is downing the confidence of the citizens, but also of my own, in this case, against our favoured state system, I would ask you to accept my sincere explanations, which are proved by the attached elements. Also, the message of the positive decision of Parliament, if it lifts my immunity, will be restrictive or even forbidding for me to participate in social events or even mobilisations, since it can be judged by any judicial authority that it is outside my parliamentary activities. Colleagues of the government majority said the lift was symbolic. So, what symbolism, that I poorly responded to an invitation from our regional players? That the Member of Parliament should enclose his activities in Parliament's building? Although, after Mrs Adamopoulou's case, we will end up being censored within the walls of the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u375	Thank you, my colleague. Is there a colleague who wants to take the floor for this case? We shall now proceed to the next case concerning Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou. Mrs. Adamopoulou is inaugurated following a lawsuit by the Association of Officials of the Hellenic Police of Central Macedonia because at a meeting in the House on 2-7-2020 she said "koullows are the police officers throwing molotovs". This was considered by the union as a slandering defamation and the litigation came here. Mrs Adamopoulou, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u376	Thank you, Mr President. I've been telling you that I'm going to need a lot of speaking time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u377	I don't give you time to have comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u378	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before I enter the legal and political part of this matter in relation to the proposal made by the Committee on Parliamentary Ethics to remove my immunity, I will begin my position by giving an indicative indication - and I say, for example, why it matters - a number of very serious complaints - declarations - I shall submit the relevant documents in the Minutes - which have been recorded over these years on the issue that is related to today's debate. I could talk for the whole time about these issues and about the statements made, but I shall confine myself to very indicative references to the economy of time. So because some people have fallen from the clouds in relation to the statement I have made and because various acrobatic medals and interpretative approaches are being attempted, I consider my obligation to Parliament, but also to the Greek citizens, to remind myself of some facts before going through legal and political issues. I am therefore starting with a statement by the former Civil Protection Minister, Mr Toska, on 21 December 2019. Let's see what Mr. Toskas said at the morning show of great spectacle. It should be noted that I am going to read all of what I am going to say, so that we do not misunderstand that I am using my own words and that I am going to submit in the Minutes what I am referring to. He says Mr. Toskas: "I withdrew the "DELTA" team and I would abolish it, because it was a group of "blacks" on the side of the state." He had just said in his statements in the "MEGA": "They had tensions in the protests, operated uncontrollably in many cases." I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Angeliki Adamopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] From a Step of Parliament in June 2018 he said: “DELTA team evolved and performed in a manner comparable to anarchists. It was a force, which had left its purpose, which had escaped its purpose and acted in a way, as I said, out of every rule." On April 17, 2018, in an interview on the radio, he said: “A bunch that acted autonomously, sparked tensions and episodes. I will not allow any power of the Greek Police to play a role without control." The Minister of Citizen Protection, the political chief of the Greek Police, a man who, as the Supreme Military Officer and Director of the Chief of HNDGS, has very much experience of what hierarchy, discipline and functioning of a body mean, the presumption that he is fully responsible for being placed, said all these things about Greek police officers. He told them state-of-the-art assholes, bunch of uncontrollables, with modus operaandi analogues of anarchists, outside of any rule that sparked tensions and episodes. Do you know who's triggering tensions and episodes while they're there for the exact opposite purpose? The provocators. That's the definition of the provocator. With all these designations, therefore, the Minister himself denounced a large number of Greek police officers, and for these reasons, she dismantled it. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. I'm presenting them, of course, in the Minutes, so we can all figure out what's going on today. Let's go down. Christos Fotopoulou, President of the Panhellenic Police Federation, speaking at the "MEGA" on June 13, 2014: “Unfortunately, there are these ill-brained, criminal philosophies within the police”. On the same show about the famous incident with the photograph of the policeman with the iron fist in his hand, he said: "I've seen them and convinced me, because they haven't been dealt with in an exemplary way." He had said in 2011 about his post as colleagues in the then episodes: "I apologize to the citizens. It's a disgrace. If that's the case, then we're a naughty body and someone's gonna have to put us in order. If this is called democracy and a smooth function and an appropriate way of operating the police, I am stinking 'no, shame, shame, shame!'. He reported in 2012 on NET's morning show: ‘Was there any provocators? Photopoulos: There are always. Journalist: In collaboration with the Greek Police? Photopoulou: I don't know that. However, the function yesterday shows.’ Indeed, it says at one point - I will state the relevant point - that the provocators have equivalent equipment with the police, as Mr Fotopoulou suggests. Where do they find him? Who's supplying them? That they were equipped as well last October, when the hoodiers attacked protesters and PAME, with equipment used by the repression forces. Theirs are the hoods, mechanisms locals and foreigners make use of them to hit the movement. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Angeliki Adamopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Skourletis in 2011 in the MEGA news bulletin. "Cousins came out of police cages all along the way, in full consultation with the police, who have created incidents, and have managed to have transformed the Constitution into a battlefield. We speak with absolute certainty and responsibility, because there are pictures of such people coming out of police vehicles. This is a circle design you officially want of the para-states? Say it as you wish.’ A press release of the Athens Anti-Accession Movement for the course of November 17, 2014. “ At the same time, however, we want to denounce something that we have seen with our eyes for the first time. State Security Police officers in the contribution of the Harilau Trikoupi and Academy streets had with them in common sight of molotov. Let Mr. Kikilias explain what the molotovs are doing in the hands of non “terrorists.” I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Aggeliki Adamopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] MEP then Mr. South Marias to Mr. Karagkounis in 2013 on a morning show at "ANTENNA". "To collect the provocators Ms. Pappay reported that they were coming out in the knives of MATs. And I have made a document to Mr. Dendia too." Giorgos Karaivaz's post entitled "There are hooded policemen?" with revealing photos, 22 October 2011. "The last few days we have seen with surprise that open doors of reason are being violated. We amazedly see the police's leadership disrespecting the claim that there are hooded policemen. We have the feeling that there is no police editor who spends the first month of his term in these reports, which doesn't know there are hooded policemen. And we're not talking about the EMCDDA or the Anti-terrorism. We refer to arrest groups formed by the State Security, in order, as their title says, to catch those who either perceive to be raped or are indicated by the MS that they are carrying out illegitimate actions. So the question is not whether there are state security hooded police officers, because the answer is self-evidently easy. Of course there are.” The same journalist came back the next day with a new article entitled “There are hooded policemen? Number 2, which states ‘There are two categories of hooded policemen. Those who go down to the marches as groups of arrests, which we often see at the entrance of the GATS at the stage of their preparation and those "they", who circulate as incomeists in the Exarcheia to collect information and, as our reader rightly pointed out, when the time comes for the conflicts, "you will naturally break and no mosques so that the anarchists don't understand you, then you will throw a few stones at your friends, your series, the Mamadziers again so that the anarchists don't understand you, because - don't forget - they don't already know you." In the second category you throw stones and break windows as a hooded policeman, so that the comrades don't take you for the needs of the service and linced you in the minute. I have not seen anyone disagree with doubts and 'Protestants' so far. It's about us. It's about the whole thing. Why do we agree on something that we unanimously agree, the police leadership declares surprised and unscrupulous? Why is he violating the borders of reason, stating that there are no hooded policemen? Let us finally admit it from there and beyond, let us look for any possible actions, in the context of the national or provocative functions and plans." Of course, there are also photographs of what I am tabling in the Minutes, with people next to the police, who are holding ferro-growth. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Angeliki Adamopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Publication of a news website, with a lot of visitors, entitled “Secure Weights Burned MacDonalds”. "A group attempts to cause damage and then fire the fast-fighting. One of the youngsters is left alone under a column when the MAT platoon is attacking this point. The man in the dark T-shirt doesn't resist, and the cop pulls him down and throws him down by immobilizing him. By the time he was supposed to be arrested, something's going on. The young man rises up, dusts out and leaves on a step like nothing is happening at all. The incident ends here. One more detail: The officers did nothing to erase the fire that had broken out, but it still had not taken dimensions. I'm presenting to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Aggeliki Adamopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am closing the cycle of petitions by means of a very recent article by the Members. Baskakis and Psarra at the “PHMEMERICA” on December 7th, entitled “I know you from the hood”, written on the basis of the specific procedure for the lifting of my immunity, mentioning an unprecedented attempt to suffocate the speech of the MPs within Parliament. It writes the article: “Of course, it is not the first time that similar concerns have been expressed in the Greek Parliament. It is for the first time that they are wanted to be criminalised. The position of Mrs Adamopoulou has reintroduced to the debate an issue that has been in the House for many decades now, without anyone contemplating to prosecute the dozens of MPs or even the leaders of parties from time to time. We are, of course, talking about the question of relations between the Hellenic Police and some hoodiers." I'm still in relation to the article. On 20 December 2006, Mr Chrysochoidis - writes the article - it was written in my position that the existence of the parastate is convenient, accusing the right that he is working on the presence of the hoodiers. He said: "It's amazing, but you're glad, you're polarizing the situation, you constantly create tensions, so that the universities don't open, when with the hoodmen, when with the asylum." This is a statement by Mr Chrysochide on 20 December 2006. On 9 March 2007, again, Mr Chrysochoidis against the New Democracy and again confirming my position on the highly suspicious time-conceivable failure to catch the hamburgers - why is that where my statement began, I said: 'Why do you not arrest them? Because you know who the brats are - he said: 'Unfortunately, the present government cannot serve the security and order issues either, so that police force can rise and not just, and we have phenomena which often remind of other times'. Mr. Chrysochoidis continues, at PASOK: "Mr. Tsouula tried to convey the debate where he considers it to be the privileged field in public order and security. Coopers have always existed along the route of the last thirty, forty years. And why a man becomes a hoodler is a great debate that we will not develop here." That's what Mr. Chrysochoidis says. "Have anyone been arrested? Not even yesterday was arrested again. Student protesters were arrested." In 2007, the then parliamentary representative of PASOK and then Minister of Justice, Miltiadis Papaioannou, quotes: "The hoodlers act either by omissions or by the tolerance of the Ministry of Public Order, not to say many times, if any, and by participation." And of course, here, I give a personal parentheses. Any such action and any such para-state organisations does not mean that the police bodies in question, which so operate, act or act self-advisedly. Obviously, there are many cases where this is done with tolerance, with the suggestions and with the consent of the Ministry of Public Order, now the protection of the citizen. The disguise and mode of action of the police had been described by sergeant "A.A." - he does not mention his name - in his apologetic memorandum on 16 February 2007, where he admits that: "We were on political track and we were clothed in such a way that we were as similar as those we would be commanded to conceive and of course not to draw attention. We were explicitly banned from bringing anything that could indirectly prove our status as police officers, so that we could more easily communicate with the various groups of troubles. At Parliament's meetings on 29 June and 30 June 2011, Mr Papadimoulou of SYRIZA talks about violence aimed at thousands of peaceful protesters and in which police forces and arbitrariness and hoodlers co-exist. Mr. Lafazanis in 2011 -- all of this draws from the article -- denounces the synergy of MATs with the trans-state hooders and indicated the video projected on television stations, where the forces of MATs appear to coordinate with the hoodiers and offer them an escape route. Mr Pafilis of the JRC has linked the cocooners to the actions of the prosecution authorities and has spoken of'sub-world', various strange organizations and links. Mr. Karathanasopoulos of the JRC said that at the time the government set up provocations and that police and hoodmen serve the same single goal. Mr Giokas said so before, that the JRC has sometimes made several such statements. Mrs Papapaigas as Secretary-General at the time of the Central Committee of the JRC said that "we visited Mr Chrysochide and knew that there was a specific political space, official and ex-institutional, who wanted to put people inside the gathering in order to throw away a molotov and make incidents". Not only did it not ask for the prosecution of Mrs Papayannakis and the rest of the police associations - which should not ask for it, I am not saying it because she had to ask for it - but after the new explosion of violence at the gathering of 20-10-2011, the JRC. Referring to the case of police hoodlers, and Mrs Papapeigas had told the relevant prosecutor that "At the political assessment of the General Secretary of the JRC there is a relationship and involvement of official centres and staff with provocators' teams, members of ties of fans, which, depending on the time and place, bear the relevant surround, for example. hoods’. The article was in "KATHEMERINI" on 26-10-2011. It is invoked by this Article. Speaking in the MEGA news release, Ms. Papagas was clearer. " Last night at 2 o'clock outside the GAAP there was a group of policemen and hoodmen. Now you're going to tell me, are they hoodmen online with the police, or are they policemen dressing hooders and celebrating and saying "we eat them"? On the same day in Santaroza there was a group of policemen who took off her clothes and put on hoodie clothes." "VOLUNTARY" 21-10-2011. Dozens, then, of the oldest petitions in Parliament about Greek hooded police relations, even by the current Minister for Civilian Protection, without of course contemplating prosecution against a Member, pointing out the authors and asking themselves: Where were the Members of the New Democracy, Mr Buga? Where were you then? And where were the police unions - writes the article - which they have now targeted the MP of Mera25? Ladies and gentlemen, then it did not open a nosy after the statements I made to you. I'll submit the last article to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Angeliki Adamopoulos, presents for the minutes the above article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are talking about public positions and statements by Citizens' Protection Ministers, representatives of policemen, numerous MPs and central political actors, authors, publications, etc. Not even a reason for insulting there, not that it should be done. That is where the people of the union who incite me saw nothing slander, nothing offensive, nothing to affect their honor, reputation and dignity. Two, then, are the possible scenarios and two with the same underlying cause: Or for so many years they have been undisputed to accept these repeated public allegations, and so it is at least pragmatic, hypocritical and extremely suspicious that they are now vanquished by a similar speech - and even on a broadcast or an interview, but from the Step of this House - or their so late and selective sensitivity is also hypocritical for another reason, because it is a pretext to serve another purpose: my suffering to political and personal extermination, because as a Member of this state I said in a speech in Parliament the public that some people do not know that they have not heard so many times in society. Because as a woman, a left-wing and a newly elected Member of a small party - I would remind you that for a similar incident Mrs Kasimatis is being persecuted and I would remind you that she is the woman who is being persecuted at the moment, Mrs Toulopakis - so as a left-wing woman and a newly elected MEP of a small party outside of mechanisms and patrons, I think I am rather a minority and easy target for the vigilant protagonists of the Greek police's honour. On legal matters, the committee, pursuant to Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, shall investigate whether the act in respect of which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the parliamentary or political activity of the Member or to the prosecution, prosecution or detention of a Member, conceals political feasibility and otherwise recommends the lifting of immunity. So let's go to the first part of this article if the act is linked to the Member's political or parliamentary activity. I address you now, Mr President, and those who agree with you. It is really insulting for everyone's intelligence that we should even discuss whether my contested statement is related to anything other than political or parliamentary activity, because it is quite obvious that a position in plenary in the context of the vote and discussion of a bill, in which I was a special buyer, can never be anything other than a political and parliamentary act. So, in order to understand what we are doing in parliamentary procedures? We're talking cafés, are we talking at the café as private? This absurdity, those who intend to admit it today, will do well to restrict it to themselves and in any case to think very carefully about what their previous attitude creates. And I would really like you to explain, Mr President, why you are present at the moment on behalf of the New Democracy and I would also like to address Mr Buga, why so much time we have had a debate on the incidental issues raised by SYRIZA, I have not received an answer. Mr President, what I have said is not linked to my parliamentary activity. And the Advocate-General comes and refers me to Rule 62, accepting first of all that he is not linked to my parliamentary activity as I have said. We're talking crazy! Let me give you a clear answer, because what I said and said is not the exercise of parliamentary duties. On the second part, I replied a few minutes ago. We had 'bovine' and much more serious complaints all these years. Reaction? Zero. I said 1% of what has been said, sues and waiver of immunity! Alas, if anyone thinks this is symptomatic and accidental. Alas, if one believes that a trade union institution is not acting politically intently, or we will do the black when the reality of open targeting speaks for itself. So, of course, this lawsuit is a result of political destiny, of course, and it is aimed at impoverishing me. As I said again to the committee and as science has seen, these complaints send a clear message, that there is a price for open political expression. I personally want to express my right to criticise, but at the end of the day also to exercise parliamentary control. Why, at that time, I asked the question: 'Why don't you guys arrest them?' It was a form of parliamentary control. So, I didn't just have the right to do it, I had to do it by the Constitution. The aim, of course, is not only me - so that I do not take it self-centeredly and personally - but it becomes the closest and wider political space to which I belong, both THEA25 and the Left, which has, to its great honour today, supported the legitimacy and constitutional order and the logic, as well as the Greek Solution and the Change Movement. I have another question to ask. You disagree with each other. The President says 'Article 62', 'Article 61(2)'. Isn't that right? I want to understand what article of the Constitution I am referring to. Can someone answer me? Because you're diagnosing each other! I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u379	It's important that you refer, son, not with what article!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u380	No, no, because they don't even understand what article I'm being referred to. Rule 61 of the Constitution: 'The Member shall not be persecuted, nor shall he be examined in any way for his opinion or for his vote in the course of his parliamentary duties'. The critical element here is clearly the opinion, since the parliamentary duties are by definition, for the reason I mentioned. In fact, Article 61 clearly outweighs Article 62 as a special provision. Why is he special? In paragraph 2 of Article 61, the exception is introduced for slandering under the law, namely, what is abused by the association. I shall also comment on an abstraction of Mr Plory's speech in the committee. Mr Ploris said to us: 'I believe that here it is clear that when a petition for slandering comes, clearly from the Constitution, slandering is excluded from the opinion and vote'. So I refer to Mr Ploris, as to Mr Athanasios. Since the committee cannot examine the basis for the appeal, it has no meaning at all when a Member is indicted for a slandering defamation to be held by the committee and then by the plenary. Take it all to court. What is the point then of doing all this? You have asked, Mr Buga, when Article 61(2) applies. Can you tell me when it doesn't apply? When does Article 61(2) not apply?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u381	That's what you say now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u382	Mrs. Adamopoulou, don't have a dialogue. Please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u383	I mean, every time a slander comes, it's out of paragraph 1, isn't it? And we are not talking about the exercise of parliamentary duties at that time. Isn't that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u384	You will explain that now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u385	Oh, no. I am referring to your position. And I would like to return to you the question: when does Article 61(2) not apply? When it does not apply, that is the question. Every time there's a slander for slandering, we take him to court. Is that right? There is no question of the exercise of parliamentary duties.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u386	In your view, when should this be applied?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u387	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u388	In your view, when should this be applied?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u389	I have already said that, Mr Buga: when parliamentary duties are carried out. So now that I'm speaking from Stepma, I'm not doing parliamentary duties?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u390	When exactly must paragraph 2 of the Constitution apply?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u391	When an indictment comes for slandering, it is assumed that the committee cannot consider the basis of the appeal. But you did. You and the potion have not put, you have basically decided that there is a slandering defamation here. So to come to say exactly what the committee and plenary are doing with this interpretation and since you are directly questioning the fact that a parliamentary speech is the exercise of a parliamentary function. Article 61(2) does not refer to a statement made by the Member in the exercise of his parliamentary duties. The case of slandering is not only when the Member is placed in the House. He may have exercised a slandering defamation, while he is a parliamentarian. Did you think of that as a potion? In your view, therefore, all that remains in this House to do is to invoke a slandering indictment, automatically to lift immunity, because allegedly slandering is excluded from the opinion. Who says that? Who says so, that slandering is excluded from the opinion in the context of the exercise of functions?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u392	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u393	No, Mr President, you'll be a little patient. Why don't you forget that you also recommended all this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u394	I'm not taking away your word. You'll be comfortable for a while. As you can see, I didn't even set a timer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u395	We are talking about incomprehensible legal and reasonable leaps, which I very much regret by lawyers, except that they are parliamentarians. If the editorial legislator wanted to have connected this case with the activation of Article 62, it would have included it there in the very first year of revision. It is clear that there was no such will and that there is now a deliberate misinterpretation of the Constitution. There's no article 62 here. There is only Article 61, for which you have even missed the fact that the time-limit for the House to decide has elapsed. After talking about Article 61(2), I would like to read to you Article 61(2): "The MP is persecuted only for slandering according to the law following the parliamentary permission. The appeal court is responsible for the action. The licence is deemed not to have been definitively granted if the House has not taken a decision within forty-five days after the indictment has been made to the President of the Parliament. If the House refuses to give the permission or if the time limit is shorter, the act shall be deemed to be inappropriate.' I've got the lawsuit here. You have it in your hands too. On 23 October the President of Parliament received the indictment. An indictment manifestly unfounded, which lacks active legitimacy, which you also had to see. And, yes, you had to check its misuse in the context of feasibility, as you have done with your own MPs. In other words, you are legal and you know clearly that when a statement is not about a particular person, but about an vague group of individuals, and not about the whole team, then for God's sake! In other words, we are talking about elementary law. So today, 16 December, fifty-four days have elapsed. We are in nine days, after the forty-five days, set by the Constitution in the second subparagraph of Article 61(2). In short, if the majority decides to adopt these serious interpretative errors that I have achieved, it will be fatal to violate the constitutional impunity and put itself out of constitutional legitimacy. There is no moral, no logic, no constitutional prerogative, no indictment or any lifting of immunity. And to respond to what you said, before I finish, about the attitude we took as a PART25 in relation to the lifting of immunity, I will tell you that of course we were not talking about offences which are part of the exercise of parliamentary duties. We meant that for any other offences other than the exercise of parliamentary duties, of course, they should go directly to the courts and that Parliament's permission should not be granted. So there is no basis for constitutional, moral, legal or reasonable. So let us at least be honest about the basics. From here, from the temple of democracy, perhaps today it is starting a new dark era, a time that will probably be borne by it as a stigma, a very sadly reciprocated punishment of censorship and manipulation. Today it's me, tomorrow who knows who they're gonna be and how many people they're gonna be. In the end, I would like to mention as a very bright example, as an exception to this darkness the parliamentary and coup we are living in, the fact that I was very pleased that for the first time in this Parliament the opposition took a unanimous position and I hope that we will also see this in bills. I wish, in other words, that we should prove to the Greek people that we are putting above all public interest and logic, when it comes to serious problems, a reduction in rights not only of Members, but above all of citizens. I would therefore like to thank and say by name - because it has to be recorded in the Minutes today - who have had the courage to take this position. I would therefore like to thank Mr Katrugalos, Mr Voutsi, Mr Janakopoulos, Mr Dritsa, Mr Kamine, Mr Giokas, Mr Kegeroglou, Mr Heita, Mr Velopoulos, Mr Mylonakis. I hope I haven't forgotten anyone. I would therefore like to thank them for showing above all that they are judged and placed - at least today - on the basis of their conscience and logic. In any case, the issue raised by SYRIZA put things in place, on a proper, legal and constitutional basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u396	Thank you, my colleague. The President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Varoufakis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u397	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not customary for the President of Parliament to speak on the matter of waiver of immunity. But today we do not have a matter of waiving immunity. Today we have a heavy defeat of parliamentarianism. That the statement on which Angeliki Adamopoulou is being persecuted is completely documented - you have heard the documentation from her lips too - is not the point. Today's issue is much higher in the context of parliamentarianism. It is the freedom of speech of Members of the Greek Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, freedom of speech means absolutely nothing if it does not guarantee you the right to say things that some do not want to hear. The freedom of speech, which is now only affected by the fact that we have this debate, only by the fact that some have dared the New Democracy to raise a question that was raised by the Step of the Parliament, the criminalisation of the Members' speech, this will remain in the historical times of the Greek Parliament and will be burdening your conscience, ladies and gentlemen. Actually, gentlemen. You are only two, because the rest of you seem to have become red enough to come to Parliament's Chamber today. Ladies and gentlemen, the more intense the moments are, the more calm we have to be. That's why I'm gonna throw the tons. We are a Parliament in which important insults have been heard. Do you remember a man who called a Prime Minister in this Chamber a high priest of interlocutory? We have heard aggressive definitions of the "goat", I have been heard by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance "the destroyer of Greece". I don't like to hear that, I'm angry, as you are, as you were, yesterday when I told you that you destroyed Greece and asked for a committee of inquiry to open the bankruptcy file. This lacked such political controversy to end up with prosecutors and courts. Thinking about what you're doing? Even in the 'black' years, in the 'Peters' years of the 1960s, this did not happen, to be persecuted by MPs for their point of view from the Step of the Parliament. You're worse than E.R. You must be ashamed of yourself too deeply if you have the ability to realize what a congressman means to be free of speech. Ladies and gentlemen, of all the parliaments in the European Union - and also in the wider area - I do not know any - show me one! - to be persecuted for something he said from the Step of the House. Actually, I know two and they're recently. It is the Hungarian Parliament and Turkey's parliament. The first thing that far right-wing no dictatorship is doing without shutting down the parliament, a dictatorship with a parliamentary cloak, Mr President - and take note of that, you are currently in the seat of the Greek Parliament and you will remain in history chairing such a diversion - the first thing Mr Orban has done is that he terrorised the Members of Parliament. He made it possible for him to enter prison or be persecuted in the courts for something he said from the Step of the House. So is Mr. Erdogan. There you go! The "orbanisation", which Merra25 has been talking about for a long time, is under way. You cannot after today's meeting, today's vote, today's position to hide behind his veil that you did not know what you were talking about. You know very well. You'll be accountable. We'll be here and remind you all the time, but that's not all we'll do. Look, we're doing us a favor, we're a little party. In Angeliki Adamopoulou, do you think you've done a bad job? You raised her, she deserves, you raised her, as you will show her tomorrow, the Light Bakadima, Clonas Gregoriadis, perhaps a colleague from the KKE, because this story doesn't stop here. You start something today, and Mrs Adamopoulos said so very well. Today they come for Angeliki, tomorrow they're coming for Photini. Tomorrow they'll be coming for someone from the JRC. Then they will come for you and you will have done nothing so that you can have the right to say, when they will come for you, some next "what is going on here"? There won't be anyone left to support you. So, Mera25, we're here to support you too. We are here to support your right even to slander me personally or slander us all, because someone in this country at last has to put a brake on the mad pace with which you 'orbanize' Greece and turn our democracy into a dictatorship with a parliamentary cloak. Mera25 is here! I'm glad the rest of the opposition parties are here. The New Democracy is now becoming a 'new dictatorship' with a parliamentary mantle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u398	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u399	You cannot speak, the parliamentary representatives are speaking. Mr. Giokas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u400	Mr President, I would like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u401	Wait a minute, I'll tell you now, we'll be done, and then we'll see you. Parliamentary representatives speak first. There is by way of derogation a provision which says that another Member may request the floor. Wait until the parliamentarians and others speak. It is not the Rules of Procedure, but it is actually being implemented. Here, Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u402	Mr President, I would like to raise two points which have been raised in committee, and today we want to repeat them. The last provision of Rule 62 says what is not the only case of the House, in order to continue the criminal prosecution, imprisonment, etc. It's for the self-righteous felonies. I would remind you that this is the provision on the basis of which the Members of the Golden Dawn have been prosecuted and imprisoned. At that time, these cases had not been brought to the Ethics Committee. The procedure was initiated automatically, without permission, without debate in the Ethics Committee and without permission from the House. If the Constitution wanted to incorporate these cases of slandering, it would expressly say so. However, Article 61 states that even in cases of slandering, there must be a prior authorisation from the House, which will in fact come into the essence of the case. That's the point. And here we are talking about an exceptional case, that of Mrs Adamopoulou, the expression of a political opinion and a political appreciation from the Step of the House. Mrs Adamopoulos said that things like this have been said before. In fact, he mentioned a number of incidents that have never occurred. He's right! In many cases, however, such cases had come to the Ethics Committee. But then the New Democracy Members did not even understand, with the composition then, voting in favour of the withdrawal. Not even the New Democracy MPs thought of such cases. That is why no such case or case ever came to Parliament. Why is it changing now? Because you're inaugurating this practice. The majority in Parliament is inaugurating this practice and coordinating it very carefully - I am using the word - this legalisation and this practice with the complaints made by various people. I'm not saying he's in agreement, I say he's coordinating. That's what we're living now. And it's total degeneration, your political degeneration! I repeat that we are not going to legitimise such practices. We are not afraid, but we are not going to legitimise such practices, which in essence prevent not only the Members' political activity, but even the elementary one, from expressing his opinion from the Stephen of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u403	Mr. Drizzas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u404	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr President, I think it is a long tradition for Parliament in all the debates on the waiver of immunity to take the floor. This is something that the Rules of Procedure provide for, but also something that Parliament's practice has established. So from this point of view, I think that any MEP who asks for the floor should take it. Mr President, it is no longer my concern and I am not so upset about your decision, the majority of the Committee on Ethics, to bring to the plenary the two cases of Mrs Adamopoulou and Mr Polakis - in particular - that your indifference and your persistence with absolute distance from the whole of the Greek Parliament, which has been trying, for three hours now, with a large number of legal and political arguments and references to real facts, to raise a major issue, namely the threat of democratic legitimacy and freedom of speech within Parliament. And while you are here, Mr President, and I am sure that the President of Parliament, Mr Tassoulos, is following the meeting, while the Parliamentary Representative and the Director of the Parliamentary Group are here, and it is certain that the Office of the Prime Minister is following the meeting, if Mr Mitsotakis is busy, you do not even show the elementary sensitivity of postponing the debate, that there is a consultation between the parties, that there should be a procedure which Parliament and the consultation, in the name of the appeal, says, of some interpretation of the laws or regulations that neither the President-in-Office of the Parliament is entitled to do now, nor the President of the Committee on Ethics nor any one of the Members of Parliament! The cases in question, if referred to courts, will not be dealt with at this stage whether or not the immunity should be lifted in the courts to which the Members of Parliament will be called. Therefore, here, the House and the Committee on Ethics cannot be a court! It obviously takes into account the provisions of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House, but it cannot go into a debate of particular interpretation, because if that were the case, the House and the Ethics Committee would be a court and therefore the Members controlled should have a second degree of crisis. And here unarmed, in the name of the majority that you are so indifferently standing against the battle that the opposition is giving today, you interpret that we have asked for, says, the incident to obtain time of speech. Really? Is that what you understood from the positions of all parties and the screaming of agony? Is that what you understand? Is that what you can collect as parliamentarians? Mr Bugas said so. Is that what you understood and this is your political position as a majority of Parliament? Mr President, Mrs Adamopoulou has defended herself impeccably, topical, with the best one can do on the real facts and on the legal and political issues. I am sure Paul Paul Paulakis will do the same. All parties and representatives who have spoken have done so. Here, Mr President, the experience of invoking that is an element of justice and the functioning of any institutional reality, what are you going to do? Inside Parliament, very often, Members of the New Democracy, the Chief of the New Democracy himself blames SYRIZA in general, not Tsipras, for many. Mr. Varoufakis said it too. It accuses us, for example, for years that we have been mocking terrorism, that we have been associated with it, that we are indirectly voting, etc. Should the coordinator of the Prefecture of Athens or the party's central committee testify for slander defamation tomorrow? Will you accept it? What difference does it make to each other? It denounces the JRC - and we and many other parties - industrialists. He tells them unaltered, exploiters, they are accused of being responsible for the loss of lives of workers because safety measures are not taken. If the Association of Greek Industries sues Mr Koutsouba or Mr Tsipras or any other President or MP party of opposition, will you accept it? Will you take it, Mr. President? Answer us, in order to understand what consistency and what basis your legal authentic interpretation has, in which you insist without any sensitivity to the major issue that has arisen. Mr President, you are well aware that I am one of the Members who, when I recently received a complaint and a complaint of maliciousness, lawsuits and appropriateness, first came and told the committee and Parliament that I asked for my immunity to be waived. It was a citizen, a particular, named, etc. Nor did I think of invoking any intentions or anything else. The relevant provision of the Constitution for the Protection of the Rules of Democracy was degenerated into one of the behaviours of every single majority of the House not to lift immunity as the prerogative of Members of Parliament. That was degeneration. It was not the bad recital of the original arrangement. Over the years, degeneration has been the exercise of the power of the New Democracy and of the PASOK. When SYRIZA came, he proposed the constitutional reform, which has finally been done, so that the Member is not privilegedly protected against other citizens, to every citizen, Mr Colleague, who is affected. It's not the same. Not the same. Mrs Adamopoulos didn't mention names. No name mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u405	Finish, Mr. Dritsa, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u406	I shall conclude, Mr President. On the other hand, how do you violate the basic principle of law in the case of Mr Polakis, claiming that it is not exactly the same? It is clear that it is the same in all respects.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u407	It had already been announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u408	And it had already been announced. That's right. To be tried for the same crime twice! Basic principle of the Law since the era of Enlightenment and the French Revolution! How dare you enter this cynicism? How is that possible? This is where we have another kind of problem. We don't have the established trade unionists and their involvement with the New Democracy. Here we have the power of the press not as the 'fourth power', but as the first power, which breaks down democracy, which controls the political system, which is controlling it, which degrades it. This is the role of modernising large publishing groups, which are a parastate, indeed. We are going to ignore that because we are going to have a good time for the 'News', the 'PARAPOLICA', the other anything! It's a big deal!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u409	Come on, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u410	I'm done, Mr. President. It's just the ferry to undermine the very Greek democracy. We will return to the application of '1-1-4'! We will not allow you to arbitrary and hidden authoritarianism in the name of formal legitimacy! Take it back. Ask Mr. Tsouula to postpone, consult both Mr. Polakis and Mrs. Adamopoulou and do not represent the calm, allegedly, judges with legal authenticity. You can't convince us!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u411	Mr. Dritsa, because before you referred to me, I'm not claiming any legal authenticity. What I had to say in the legal matter, I told the Conference of Presidents, where we were telling our views. As far as I spoke before, I said only the incident issue, which was not on the basis of substance. Because, as you know - and I said it before -, under Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure, the President-in-Office cannot speak about the substance. That's why I can't talk right now. My views have been recorded in the Minutes, what is different from the slandering, Article 61 and Article 62, and why there is no historical basis here in the one case you mentioned. That's what I said. I told the House and he was in the legal place before, about the incident. But you will allow me - I will not speak. Mrs. Cassimatis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, Mr President. On 29 July of this year, my case had been discussed in this Chamber. Of course I will not go into it because it has been discussed in detail and we have all understood what happened then. However, at that time, I told you the Stepma - I was addressing this House - that, from any mistaken interpretation of Article 62 of the Constitution - Article 62 is what ultimately refers Mrs Adamopoulou -, as has been the case since his review by the resolution of 25 November 2019 and so on, an automaticisation of the waiver of immunity, when it does not concern acts of the hard core of the duties, a practice which, if followed by the Greek Parliament, will not protect institutional guarantees of the constitution and, of course, will be violated a priori with the autonomy of the Members of the Constitution now under Article 60 of the Constitution with an unlimited right of vote and opinion, with the exception of slander, in accordance with Article 61. Ladies and gentlemen, the revision of Rule 62 was intended to limit the impunity, not to eradicate it for the political activity and duties of the Member and hence for the elimination of all 62, as the hard core of the duties is covered by the irresponsible article 61. Let us protect parliamentarianism and democratic, social and constitutional conquests of centuries. Otherwise, the House will become a permanent court and the MPs and all that they represent and believe democratically, a ball between the prosecutor and the ethics committee. I also made a request at that time, Mr President - many in New Democracy at that time expected their Chief to listen and rush to the end of the procedure - and I had tabled this request here, had been tabled in the Minutes to the speaker of Parliament and of all the Greeks. I told you at the time that I reiterated my request for a question to the Scientific Service of the Hellenic Parliament, so that the latter may decide on the interpretation of Article 62 of the Constitution, as was the case after its revision, and in particular, to decide whether Article 62 is legally permissible as an automation for the lifting of parliamentary immunity and for further prosecution because of the parliamentary activity of the Member - in this case, for the formulation of a political comment - in the context of political activity. Mr. President, has this been done? Have you asked a question to the Scientific Committee of the Parliament in relation to 62? Because it is obvious that a matter arises. If you do not understand how difficult this process has brought you today, I will really wonder. I believe that if the Members of the New Democracy were here today, they would be ashamed to vote for the waiver of Mrs Adamopoulou's immunity. They would really be ashamed, because your contradictions are childish, it's terrible! I must tell you, in relation to what has been said by other colleagues - and by Mr Dritsa and others - that there are clearly issues and questions here about how Parliament is acting on the initiative of some unions. I must tell you that a few days ago New Democracy MP, Mr Lazaridis specifically addressed - not in general and indefinitely - the health care of the general state of Nice. Because they were strikers and because they made a job stop, they were accused of being irresponsible and motivated by SYRIZA. I was there, and I reproduced this constitutional right to strike with press releases, etc. At that time, the National Workers' Association of Nice sent an open letter to Parliament to refer Mr Lazarides to the Ethics Committee. I don't think you've done that. We haven't heard of it. Has Mr Lazarides been referred, who in a pandemic blamed the health workers who give their souls who die of the shortcomings of the National Health System within the pandemic, who are heroes? Did you refer him to apologize for this slander that was specific? There could also be a suit for slandering, which would stand legally, contrary to the law against Mrs Adamopoulou and the lawsuit to me that we did not specifically address some police officers or any group. It's not done. You haven't done it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u413	Are you talking about your case now? I can't understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u414	But it comes out on 30-11...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u415	Come on, Mrs. Cassimatis. It is by way of derogation the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u416	You will hear me, Mr President, because what is happening and what you are going to do goes beyond every limit!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u417	You spoke of your case for fifty-five minutes. For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u418	Please, Mr. President. I'm talking about this case. Don't interrupt me, please! On November 30th...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u419	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u420	Don't interrupt me! I'm not done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u421	But that can't be. This debate of Members is by way of derogation and they speak for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u422	It's not derogating. I understand you're in a difficult position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u423	The parliamentarians didn't cut them off. You can't talk about your case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u424	I understand your difficult position. I'll finish and you'll answer. While, for the health workers of Nice, the Parliament and the New Democracy have done nothing to bring together its MP who slandered them, instead a unionist of the Special Guards Association comes out on 30-1 to SKAI and says...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u425	Now you're talking about Mrs. Adamopoulou's case?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u426	Yeah, yeah, that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u427	But is what you're doing right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u428	The New Democracy is currently taking orders on who will sue and who will not sue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u429	Please, come to the point! That's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u430	He says the police unionist "We have confidence in the Prime Minister. It shows that he does what he says. But some messages don't pass the way they should. And then something else about Mrs Adamopoulou of Mera25, who said the police are flying molotovs. I wanted to know the other Members of Parliament pause and say "we were lifting Mrs Kasimatis' immunity." Do those who did not vote for the waiver of immunity adopt these objections? Tell me something, Mr President. How do you feel? How does the New Democracy feel that a police syndicate on television comes out and says "we were lifting immunity". Who's doing immunity, exactly? The Members of Parliament are withdrawing immunity, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u431	You're asking me to judge what a Member said? But is what you're doing right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u432	You expropriate and humiliate Parliament and the institutional guarantees of the civil society when they come out and say 'we have lifted immunity'. So, tell me who took away immunity? You or the trade unionists through us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u433	Parliamentary representatives have talked about matters in fact. You don't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u434	Secondly and lastly. Listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u435	Please. You're 90% talking about your case. There's no room for impress.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u436	I want you to answer me if you have asked me a question and I want you to answer me why you have not done the same for the people of Nice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u437	Next time for your case, you were talking fifty-five minutes. If that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u438	Last one. Tell me something, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u439	I'm not saying. I can't say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u440	You know very well that here a process of exchange of arguments is being seized, for reasons. It's not a pretext. I was informed yesterday by my group that the services, obviously at your suggestion, have requested our letter of letter. Is this vote to be tabled today? The Vice-Presidents, without having heard all that has been distributed, will they vote? That vote will be valid? Can it be considered valid and democratic? I should also like to say to the trade unions that, in the case where we had a plenary sitting of about sixty Members of the New Democracy, they had not voted on the waiver of my immunity. They retained their vote. This means that major issues of constitutional order are raised here, which you must answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u441	We shall put them in the Conference of Presidents. Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u442	Oh, no! You will also answer here, Mr President, not the Conference. This is where you'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u443	Let me tell you. You can also ask Mr. Voutsi who is present. There is a custom in the House to speak more Members if they so request. But don't overdo it. The Rules of Procedure do not provide for this. Parliamentary representatives spoke about matters with legal arguments. I didn't interrupt anyone. I didn't put it in time. Not even to them. The last speaker is Mr. Harris Kastanides. Come on, Mr. Castanides, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u444	Mr President, may I speak from the Step so that I can take the mask off?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u445	Please, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u446	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u447	I'm ticking the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u448	Mr President, thank you for your understanding and why you gave me, despite the fact that I was not in the Chamber, the floor. I was at a long meeting of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, which is why I was absent. I have, however, heard about the debate and felt that it is my duty to ask for the floor, because from our debate there will be a conclusion on constitutional legitimacy and the observance of constitutional legitimacy by the Greek Parliament. I have no doubt at all that the whole of the political parties will think very seriously before we go to the vote, whether we will form a precedent, for which we will not be proud. Mr President, the constitutional guiding principle is contained in Article 60 of the Constitution, which explicitly states that a Member has an unlimited right to express his opinion and to vote. This unlimited right of opinion and vote in the performance of its parliamentary duties cannot impair it either a decision of the Greek Parliament, a public prosecutor or any other judicial act. It cannot be persecuted by a Member or arrested during his term of office, when much more than the Step of the House expresses an opinion that I can disagree with either you or anyone else. I am one of those who say that the world, the children who serve in the Security Body and perform their duties many times in extremely difficult circumstances, needs respect. But they too, proud of their work, must understand that there are constitutional principles that are above any other political treaty or purpose. Even the revised Article 62 provides for an assessment of the public prosecutor, which is always relevant to the exercise of parliamentary duties. Is it possible for a colleague who speaks during his speech or in the exercise of his duties in general, to take a stand at the discretion of his colleagues and, in particular, in breach of the guiding principle of Article 60 of the Constitution? It would be a trick. Beyond the fact - to remember my professional perversion - there is a criminal matter. Slandering shall require a particular person or persons against whom or whose defamation is directed. In this case no persons have been named. In the present case, the plea alleging infringement of the principle of equal treatment of men and women in matters of social security must be rejected. I do not know or intend to go into the public prosecutor's judgement, but it would be strange for people who, beyond the Constitution, respect criminal law, think that a colleague may be judged, not only because he expressed his opinion, but also because he has been judged for a crime which is not happening. Because it would be synergistic if he said something specific about Castanides or Varoufakis or Gioka or Buga. Mr President, let us be careful, because our decision today will essentially be an interpretative framework of the Constitution with regard to the persecution of Members. We must be extremely careful and always remember that the task first of all is to respect constitutional legitimacy. Because, obviously, the Members who are present or who were absent did not know that this debate will take place today, I would suggest that it would be for the good of the parliamentary procedure not to move to the vote today and give the time either to the Conference of Presidents or to the committee responsible in the light of the positions of the political parties to return to the debate and decision. Otherwise - believe me - an unleavened, rapid examination of the matter can affect the freedom of opinion and the exercise of the right by the Member. And that's gonna be a dork for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u449	Thank you, too. We are moving on to the next case of Mr. Haralambou Mamulaki. My colleague was Vice Mayor of Cleanliness and Recycling in the Municipality of Heraklion Crete and allegedly did not have the supervision of cleanliness officials and three presiding decrees of health were violated, as regards safety devices in wastewaters, the means of protecting workers, gloves, etc. Of course, there were no suitable rooms in the locker room for their cleanliness. Mr Mamulakis asked for his immunity to be waived. Here, Mr Mamulaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u450	Thank you, Mr President. In the context of a formal audit, a procedure was initiated by the Monomelis Chamber of Commerce of Heraklion for the Mayor of Heraklion, Vassilis Labrinios, and for me, where I performed the duties of Vice Mayor of Purity and Recycling in the Municipality of Heraklion, for shortcomings in some old municipal waste disposal plants and equipment in the first half of my term as a competent vice mayor. These are just issues of the day-to-day local government. Fellow Members, who have been self-government, can understand this issue and that is why I call for my immunity to be lifted so that the case can be formally closed before the Single Chamber of Appeal in Heraklion. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u451	Is there a colleague who wants to take the floor on this case? Nobody. We are moving on to the next case, which concerns Mr Antonis Mylonakis, who has told us. He asked himself for his immunity to be waived. We have said, and why he was quoted. The next number nine is Mr. Constantine Marcos for a job violation. Mr. Marcou was on a committee for the selection of hospital governors and deputy commanders. The accusation, which was raised for all the members of the committee - not specifically for him, but we are talking about him because he is a fellow Member, he comes here - was about the fact that they did not comply with the rules laid down in the whole procedure and said that they were 'graved' to some candidate irregularly, while that should not be done. Mr Marku had asked for his immunity to be waived in our committee. Here, Mr Marcus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u452	Thank you, Mr President. I must admit that I feel a little unsatisfactory today after these three hours, which, at least in my memory, will be left in black color. I am very afraid of our democratic functions as well. So I come to my case. I would not have been particularly tired of you, ladies and gentlemen, but I am given the opportunity to describe those who did not know a procedure, which was an honorable one for SYRIZA, in the space that was government and which may well be compared to what was then followed. I therefore ask for my immunity to be waived. I will devote five minutes at most - ten minutes - to describe what is to be understood and understood. Our country's hospitals are a hundred twenty, a hundred thirty. Most of them have sub-governments, some do not have, they are interconnected. The political leadership of the Ministry of Health of SYRIZA, Xanthos - Paulakis, has chosen an extremely valuable process, which has led to choices that really honor civilian staff. In other words, they set up an institutional committee, which was composed of the president of the ERCY - which is why I am here now - by the President of Onasios, by a member of the AACC, by the Secretary-General of the Ministry and by a representative of the private sector. Applications were submitted and for about a year and a half the committee, with one or two meetings a week lasting six, seven hours, assessed the dossiers. He evaluated a thousand six hundred candidates. The terms of the contract were specific and required the minimum, maximum school degree and then other qualifications, which were taken into account for the assessment of the candidate. This committee therefore met and evaluated a thousand six hundred applications. The services of the Ministry, the Legal Persons Directorate, took the applications, did a check on the legality of the application for the fullness of the application file. Many times it has been found that there were incomplete data from the absolutely necessary data on the dossier, such as a responsible statement that the candidate or cd is not criminally prosecuted with his CV, etc. Then, after the secretariat did this check, he came to committee. The Committee agreed that, for these reasons, the candidates - in line with the practice - were out of tender and continued the evaluation. The candidates were able to apply for up to three hospitals and it was necessary that they were not entitled to do the hospital in which they were serving as employees, if they were. That's the way the evaluation was done. We made a choice that we were calling in a number - five to six - to come for an interview in order to complete our appreciation. Then we suggested to the ministers the twin of our preference in order to make a choice. For reasons of substance and time, we have chosen the following. If one was a candidate for many hospitals, we would assess him, since we judged he was capable, and he would come to an interview for one of them and then assess his case for the other hospitals without being called back to assess three times for three hospitals. Then we ended up in our proposal. In this particular case, for which I have been prosecuted, he has been a candidate who has proposed three hospitals in his choice. One was "Thriasio", the other "Attica" and the third was "Agia Varvara". It emerged from the services that he worked in "Thriasios", so he came out of his candidacy and was assessed for the other two, for the "Attica" and "Saint Varvara". He was invited to an interview on "Attica" and then to our proposal he was not fit for the two most prestigious we sent to the Ministry. When it came to the evaluation of "Agia Barbara", the specific candidate, because he had come to an interview, had been evaluated, was not invited again. However, since the "Agia Varvara" as a younger hospital had candidates, I would say, in scope, there it was considered that he could be commander in such a hospital and was offered to the twin for "Agia Varvara" and was finally chosen by the Ministry's leadership. We are therefore indebted to public health inspectors on the following issues: Firstly, why did we not invite him to an interview for "Saint Barbara". I explained to you a lot earlier that since we had called him and interviewed him, we had evaluated him. There was no reason to be judged twice or third for any third hospital. That was the original decision that applied to everyone. Secondly, that the certificate he gave for his language learning was not exactly equivalent to certified certificates, and therefore this qualification should not be taken into account. But that wasn't one of the essentials to assess his candidacy. It was one of the potential options. In any case, we did not check the equivalence of certificates. Thirdly, the dates it had as a pre-service to ‘Thriasio’ were not precise. We didn't have any business to check on that either. This was an audit that the services did before for the file and mostly then when someone was chosen to go to commander. It was not our committee. These were the three main defects that we are examining during health inspectors. We chose around the two-two-five commanders and sub-commands. Of them, four - five objected to administrative justice. Of these objections, they all went to the file. These commanders were chosen with absolutely merits and had no party feature in their selection. This was a process which I admit naively to myself that it will now be maintained in the Greek State, in order to stop this maliciousness of the administration of failed Members, retired and party client friends. Unfortunately, I was deceived in this. "They came after, in July 2019, "bees", as the author says, and we saw the main retired high school chief in northern Greece and similar ones. This whole process has essentially described it to say the political difference in the excellence and worthyness of the SYRIZA government in relation to what came from New Democracy. I shall conclude, Mr President, with two - three corrections. If you'll excuse me, I'm filing a record of exactly those in the Minutes, so I won't tire you any more. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Marcou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned memorandum, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr President, because in the committee procedure in your introductory statement I should not have been present and I took the Minutes, I would like to correct two - three points, which I suppose at the very edge of your speech you were wrong. You say, therefore, by presenting the dossier in the Committee on Ethics - I say it to be recorded in the Minutes - that "Mr Marcos was a member of a committee of assessment of governors and deputy hospital administrators of the Ministry of Health, but was a member of the Ministry of Health". The "but" is probably a verbal slip. And it goes on to say: 'The Central Health Council'. And then please fill in: "And he served at the hospital "Thriasio". No relationship with me. Obviously, there has been one - I would say confusion - with the commander whom we are judging. I never served in "Thriasio" and never served. That's the one. You say below: 'In his candidacy for 'Thriasio' Mr Marcos was excluded. Why was he excluded? ‘Because he had a coma because of his status as an employee there and was not taken into consideration’. I was the one who judged with the other four candidates. I wasn't a candidate for being judged for a hospital commander nor was I excluded from anywhere. And the last one. Again you say: "The inspectors say that the finding was not justified because they did not know what to say about Mr. Markos, since he was excluded and did not invite him to the interview." Again, I wasn't even in an interview, nor was I a candidate. I think there has been some confusion on your part and you have mentioned this. I said all this to be recorded in the Minutes and not to remain in the Minutes what was said on your behalf in the committee. So I'm done. I really want my immunity to be lifted. I would like to inform you that the remaining four colleagues from the committee were the professor from the EKP as President, Mr Nakas from the University of Athens, a representative of the ASAP, a highly-qualified professor of the Polytechnics, the Secretary-General of the Ministry at that time, Mr Igogulatos and Mrs Petrakos as the representative of the private sector, has already shown themselves to be the court for 30 March - and they are waiting to tell me that 'you are lucky by the MPs, you will save the suffering'. Well, I think that, with my waiver of immunity, we are honouring Parliament's procedure and its political openness towards the citizens, indisputable with all that we have discussed on the affairs of Mr Polakis and Mrs Adamopoulou. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u453	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Are there any colleagues who want to intervene in this case? Oh, no. Our last case is Mr Paul Paul Paul Paulakis. I should like to say this because it has been said that the order of cases in plenary is the order in which they entered the House. That's why this show came in. Mr. Paulakis has a dispute with the publisher of PARAPOLITICS, Mr. Yiannis Kourtakis and on a site that has exhumed him - you will see, I imagine, everyone - with some expressions, such as "codbrew" etc. And a slandering defamation that he ate a lot of money from the CEDEFOP Kourtakis. "Moved money" etc. He'll tell us himself. At some point Mr Kourtakis says in the lawsuit: 'I, however, wanted to finish the matter and asked him to revise it'. But that's not what happened. It's a personal matter to them. They can find them in court. It's none of our business. That's the case. Mr. Polakis, you have the floor. I don't even give you time to talk to you as much as you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u454	Thank you, Mr President. If I gave a slogan to describe today's session, it would be the following: "Metsotakis - Orban - Bolsonarro rider on the far right whoever gets the favor". I do not think it describes anything more closely what we have seen today throughout this long process - and we still have time, because I will say a lot - from that slogan I just said. Look, there is a red line - I will start from this, although I intend to start, but I do, because I have watched both Costas and Mark and Mrs Adamopoulou, and Nina and Yota Pulou previously - linking many applications for waiver of immunity today. Marcus is sent because, for the first time in the history of the Hellenic Republic, a party that took over the government, in a hundred fifteen hospital governors appointed only thirty members of SYRIZA. How many are not members of the New Democracy? Mrs. Pulou send her because she went a quarter to a festival, respecting all the security measures, while your own MP had been there an hour and a half before dancing. But we had to clear up. Mrs Adamopoulou send her today, as you did not manage to send me last time, when you failed to lift my immunity, for things that she has declared from the Step of the House, inaugurating a regular unprecedented in parliamentary times, which your fathers and grandparents did not dare to do in much darker and darker times, the EPE and the post-mortem Right and the Papadopoulos era. I am very happy today, because you give me the opportunity for a second time in a very short time, to say about the works and days of a particular strawberry who, with what is being done today - I do not know if you understand - is personally humiliating you as a parliamentary majority. I'm talking about the New Democracy MPs. I'm talking about Mr. Kurtakis, whom I call as a strawman. I'll prove it below and give me another lawsuit. Three months ago, there was a complaint from his own, saying that I was slandering him, using the same and some different elements from what he is bringing today, making a legal stripe, which the President and the committee, who voted to introduce my waiver of immunity, came here three months ago. The same things I have said from the Step of Parliament, from the committees of Parliament, from the plenary or from the committees, were used in relation to the work and the days of this gentleman and many others, in relation to the CEDEFOP, NoVARTIS, the offshore of the Ministry of Health, which was the CEDEFOP. But it didn't manage last time to waive my immunity. You underestimated it then. That was half the explanation. The other half of the explanation was that fifteen or twenty of your Members did not want to vote for my waiver of immunity and build a light on Kurtakis. They didn't want to. That's why he didn't come by then. Now, taking my post from the pages that I have on social networks - I do not have a site, Mr President, there is a difference - which I say the same thing as what I said from the Step of the House, and for which last time I was sued and my immunity was not lifted, it puts you again, as if you were the puppets of a doll, as if you were the figures of a Shadow theatre, to vote again for him and he who is behind it. Here I have the statements, because here all of them must be said, a series of Members of your Parliament, your extreme right-wing fence, who only did not kneel to him apologise for not having managed to lift my immunity last time, first and foremost and better, Mr.Adoni Georgiadis, the well-known and buldozier of Greek now, who writes: "My current, Yiannis, was a misfortune in which there are no excuses. I publicly apologise for the fact that my own inactivity of a citizen's right to face his abusive in court has been imprisoned. It will not be repeated.' "Sorry, mistakenly, will not be repeated." He's a government minister to a journalist. Yannis Loverdos says: "I went and voted and you were not here to vote." Mr. Bogdanos says: "In order not to vote for the lifting of immunity from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group there is no excuse. There are responsibilities to be attributed." You have Babis Papadimitriou taking pictures that he voted and took his duty and enthusiasts the SYRIZA MPs who voted 'no'. Mrs Pipili says what a colleague of yours said to me in the perimeter of the House: 'The NW has suffered from 'pollism'. Responsibilities will be attributed by the relevant bodies.' Mr Russopoulos said it was not an honour for the MPs. They should be present and vote for the lifting of immunity from Polakis. Mr Gerapititi: 'There has been a serious failure and there are no excuses for failure'. Mr Marcouls proclaims: 'We shall shortly be in a position of apologies and then we shall vote correctly'. Mr Placiotakis - by means of his speech - said: 'Such cases must be brought to court'. Of course, Mr. Mitsotakis: "The failure of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group to lift immunity. It will not be repeated, too. And so you brought it back here today, the same things right here, just by referring to my speeches in the House, but by my postings on social networks, to put you and humiliate you to decide to waive my immunity. Look. We have to say some things and I will say them opener than I do, because I want to highlight this terrible conclusion of the real economic power, of this journalistic outrage that has taken on the dirty role, and of its political expression that is the part of the New Democracy that is currently ruling and its far-right fence along with Mr Mitsotakis. I'm doing a parentheses here. Listen to her, it matters. On the day that my waiver of immunity was being discussed in committee, as I said at the time and with the post, I said that I consciously did not go and we will see everything here. I get one of your fellow committee members, i.e., Giannis Loverdos - of the other I haven't been talking to him lately, I'm afraid you won't give us any punches - in the Peristylion of the House on the back and he says: 'Why didn't you come?' I say to him: 'I am not here, I will see you in the House.' I say to him, "Do you not be ashamed of Kurtakis having you vote again for the lifting of my immunity?" It tells me: "Look at you", as Mr. Loverdos says, "There are two issues. You're a red cloth for our world. We have to do something. We're being cursed by our people for not voting for your waiver of immunity. And as you know, we've been through too badly with you." I said to him: 'You will have a bad time again, be sure of it'. That's the reasons behind it. Let's go down, because the Kurtakis thing isn't personal, it's a deep political thing. We don't have any fields to share. He's from Kissamos, and I'm from Sfakia. Let's see who's blaming me, because basically what he says and blames me is that I told him that he took it from the CDC, that he took money he didn't have to get, that he hid sites that were funded by CDC, that it was his own property and went out on this forum, not from me, but from the climax finding. Now look who Mr. Kurtakis is. On September 17, 2012, three months after New Democracy of Antonis Samaras, a reporter, a world-famous journalist until he was not known even by the perimeter of his neighborhood, who was distinguished only for his editorial at ESPRESSO, purchases a website management company, the “USEPA” for a price of 20,000 euros. Immediately, the seat of the company is transferred to Piraeus, on the road Iasonos 2 - you know Mr Dritsa where this Iason is - just across from the seat of the Capital Ship Management by Vangelis Marinakis. On 22 September, that is to say, five days after the purchase of the ‘PARA EPE’, the release of the ‘PARAPOLICA’ begins. Note now, in 2012, the company of Kourtakis had losses of EUR 869.146. In 2013, losses are projected to EUR 1.132,301. In spite of the enormous losses, this company purchases on 31 December 2013 from the Cypriot company ‘Horizon Media and Publications Ltd’ the radio station ‘90,2’ for a price of EUR 900,000. Many will wonder: How can a company that has more than one million losses give another nine hundred grand to get a radio? It's done, though. As long as you have a plan, organization and, above all, good friends, who help you out, because they know how willing you are to do the job. So, on February 4, 2014, at a time - notice the date - which systemic banks had completely shut down the loan barrel, even in profitable companies, the "National Bank of Greece" gives a loan to the injurious company of Kourtakis with a guarantee and a pledge of the amount of the deposit - cash collateral, as the economists say - that holds an offshore company, the "C Treasure Ltd" allegedly represented by Mr. Nikos Syntiakis, that is, the secret of Vangelis Marinakis, whose name is Synatakis, has been involved in various criminal proceedings. At the same time, Mr Kourtakis and the websites he has just set up ensured the lion's share of the so-called advertising expenditure of CEDEFOP, an advertising expenditure that was the purchase vehicle of the various media at that time, a advertising expenditure that should not even exist, because it included the promotion of messages of a health character based on the Constitution and the laws to be promoted free of charge. In particular, as I have said other times, but the repetition is the mother of learning, only in June 2013 to May 2014, with Minister of the well-known and non-excellent "Buldozier of the Greek", Mr.Adoni Georgiadis at that time, when the country was on a memorandum and the government of Samaras paid salaries and pensions, when they fired two and a half thousand doctors from the primary, so the website of "the giant of journalism", Mr.Kourtakis managed to collect the astronomical sum of EUR 1.039,562 from the CCEE from the sites that were evident to be in his property and about 150,000 from a site that did not appear to be in his property, with suggestions of the well-known "cooperative" Papadimitriou, Poli, Theophilos etc. In particular, only then, 2014 - and so much in 2013 and prevented some 200,000 in 2015 - received 190,947 euros for the company "PARA EPE", 178,083 euros for the "CARPI", 177,252 euros for the "HEALTHPRO", 177,238 euros for the "FALI AND PIPERI" - has nice names -137,878 euros for the "MONEY PRO", 118,183 euros for the "APOSPASMA IKE", 51,881 euros for the "PARAPOLICA". Of course, the ridiculous thing is that they were costing the registration of the CDC banner on non-existent websites such as "ALATI AND PIPERI" or "MONEY PRO" etc. The 15,000 and 16,000 euros a month, while PARAPOLITICA, who had a visitability above, was costing it 5,000 euros a month. Normally, the banner over three four hundred don't have to give, and this one on the websites that have huge traffic. Of course, there is that well-known 'PARAOPOLITIC' article - I have said it several times from here, from the Stepping of the House - which includes it in the now lawsuit, the polio article in Syria, please, which was invoiced EUR 20,000. It will remain in the history of research journalism, and I wonder how you haven't suggested it so far to get the Pulitzer Prize. Or something else for the infections. Or that excel, with the National Neoplasms Archive of Avramopoulos, which on the one hand ate the money and gave 18 grand to show the excel which was a copy of the Statistical Office's data in relation to the distribution of neoplasms in Greece. Of course, he took a hundred and fifty, as I say, from other websites that kept them secretly. Remember that it had become a mess with that site, the "VELONA AND CLOSIT", which seemed to have been taken within three months of October, November, 2014-50,000 euros. It was a site that had become a fuss - "Who is that, guys?" - and it turns out by the mixed step of control that this is Mr. Kurtakis' property. That's when he made the mug. He didn't say it was his. This took three months of this money, then SYRIZA's "bolsheviks" came, stopped the feed, and the site disappeared what it taught us about the crusade. He had five or six posts, nothing else. He did not have time to go on because, as I said before, SYRIZA's "bolsheviks" came and stopped entrepreneurship. So I think that this man with just 20,000 euros, with the guarantee of his honest friends, and above all a dowry of over a million euros a year for two - three years from CEDEFOP, from an insignificant journalist, turned in the years 2012-2014 into a media tycoon, appearing as the owner of a radio station, newspapers and countless websites, a strawman and front of course. All accidentally now, during the same period, in 2012-2014, the Kurtakis media act as the government's communication mouthpiece Samaras, supporting, applauding and praising all its political choices. Incidentally, at the same time, 2012-2014, these media expose health ministers, despite the fact that they close hospitals, sack thousands of workers. Don't you think, of course, that this happened, too, in Kourtakis sniffing Adonis and Voridis, who, by the way, was also a lawyer of Kurtakis, Vorides. The CEDEFOP, from which they received the money, had a political head of the Minister of Health. This is a simple accident, as you all understand. Also, it is a simple coincidence that these instruments, but also many others, which were fed in the same way by the CEDEFOP, as I have often proved, attacked me with an enormous amount of coordination, when at the very first time I got to the post of Deputy Minister of Health, we gave that interview on the advertising expenditure of CEDEFOP and the involvement of Mrs Stournara, then, etc., because I cut them off. I will be proud, because in the years that we were ministers of any of these parasites of Greek society - because they are - he did not get a half a pound of euro from CEDEFOP and from the Ministry of Health. Of course, I also disclosed publicly this whole uncontrolled public money-sharing party, and of course I forwarded it to the public prosecutors. There's been persecution. Someone's still in the search. I wish, you guys - and I have a complaint - that Greek justice would move at the speed that has moved to the specific lawsuit of Kurtakis. Watch out, she filed the lawsuit the next day my immunity didn't come to Parliament in September. Today we have December and are discussing the lifting of immunity. These two and a half months are an astronomical speed for Greek justice. While we have cases where I've taken the evidence, I know what I've taken them, they've been persecuted, and we're still in the interrogation phase. "We send calls to apologise the defendants" or "we are in the pre-interrogation phase and continue the preliminary investigation." As you can see, of course, the instruments of Mr Kurtakis, through this funding from the CEDEFOP, have emerged in an unarmed man and had his sceptres of anti-SYRIZA front in the press, assembling and colluding on every issue with the extreme right wing of the New Democracy. Kourtakis and other mediators - hand with Samaras and Georgiadis imposed the New Democracy agenda and its Leader and the "NOVARTIS" scandals and for the Macedonian one. There was a conciliation, which was this: it was a gentlemen's agreement between these Minorists and all those who broke the far right wing of the New Democracy and with Mr Mitsotakis. That's obvious. And this contract is being performed today and you're being humiliated like this. "We will support you to become Head of the New Democracy and Prime Minister, and the exchange for our services will be to cover up in every way the scandals we are involved in. We will jointly punish, exemplarily, all those who dared to disturb or challenge the real owners of this country. We will slander them, mutilate them on the night, slander them, deceive them, sue them as slanderers and slander them in every way, and you will do all those interventions in the state and in the institutions, so that the Left does not come back to power again, as in a crisis of sincerity in the summer of 2018, Mr. Makis Vorides had revealed. This plan is being implemented. That's why you've consolidated the prosecution of corruption with the financial prosecutor to get Mrs. Toulupakis out. That's why you set up the court in Papagelopoulos. That's why you're trying to do the same thing again. That's why you heard my immunity last year with Stournara and the Pool. So try again with Kourtakis now and try it again today. Of course, all this deep interdependence and interdependence between Mitsotakis, the extreme right wing of the New Democracy, Kourtakis and other Mindarchs has been strengthened much more in recent months on the grounds of pandemic, which the government has found as a pretext to facilitate and sink at regular intervals and with absolutely opaque procedures with public money, not only in the midst of Kurtakis, but the overwhelming majority of the media, with the exception of some disturbing ones. Twenty million euros from the Petsa list and 2 million euros later, 3 million euros from the Theodorikos list, which is now about to inform - supposedly - of its expatriates, 35 million euros from the regions, 21 million euros from the permits, an undetermined number of tens of millions of euros direct advertising expenditure by the ministries is the joy of the media and of the party's health at this time. Of course, be careful, at the same time that you are begging the media to engulf you and create the widest picture - while the country is going through crisis and destruction - of prosperity and that here Mitsotakis is "Moses" and we fight it, and we try it, etc., you are no longer tolerated - by taking the catastrophe of the authoritarian regime, which is the beginning of your end, because that is what we have lived today, the beginning of your end - nor a different voice. You have driven Helena Akrita from "The NEWs", you prosecuted Haritto from ERT and, as I learned today, you forced Mrs. Crustallis, the Editor of the newspaper "THE VIMA", who revealed a few days ago - along with other means - the double recordings of cases between EGEY and IDI. You know, the characteristic of authoritarian regimes is that they are not even tolerated by their own or by those who like the opposite voice. They want a cemetery unanimity that just bleeds. You've seen the picture yesterday from the budget, haven't you? It is a time of empires of Europe of the last century! You are standing the MPs, the ministers standing, and Mr Mitsotakis is sitting like Louis and you applaud him after a speech he made about the budget, which only had characterizations against his opponents, with the culmination and crown of his self-determination attack as a fragile group to Nikos Philis. I have "attacked" Kyburopoulos, when I said that, yes, the LEADs must have special rules, because they do not start at the same point as others and he had exploited these aids. I then "attacked" vulnerable groups and people with disabilities or with special abilities, as you want to say. Mr. Mitsotakis yesterday what did he do and he wasn't ashamed? Where are all these sensitives? I would also like an answer from Mr Kymbouropoulos. "White page" is, from what I have seen, his reaction so far to this inappropriate behaviour of Mr. Mitsotakis. Today, therefore, and in the midst of an unprecedented health crisis our country is experiencing, with our hospitals on the limits of the collapse, with public health care being based solely on self-sacrificing and altruism of doctors and nurses who watch for all the on-calls that need to move from one hospital to another, what you say about seven thousand recruitments is a magical picture, just like the thousands of two IF beds. For twenty days, hundreds of people have died every day and the beds that hospitalize at the ITH sick with a coronary are about six hundred. Where are the thousands of two hundred? And the youngest child now understands the gruesome lie you've told in the past few days about it. At the same time, therefore, that we are completing a month and a half Lockdown because of the criminal acts and omissions and the government's ideological choices, today that the economy collapses because you refuse to support small and medium-sized enterprises...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u455	Mr Colleague, please confine yourself to this matter. That's out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u456	It's all within. For Kurtakis, I'll say at the end. Don't worry. So today, when this is happening in the country, today that the 'condependents of their wages' are fighting for the work they do not have and the income they do not have, today Mrs Nicholas and the top ministers give direct supplies of millions of euros at prices multiples of the standard, as we have proved with evidence for a very long time, such as Mr Metarakis, Mr Chrysochoidis, Mr Pierracakis, many of the Ministrys, etc. At the same time as Mr Mitsotakis is going unrealisticly to summits and riding around Parnitha or his wife is visiting Kalamata today - from what I have seen - together with the 'Home Dor' - why do restrictions and lockdowns do not apply to them, do they? - while Turkey undisturbed makes a cruise on the Greek islands by launching and carrying out its threats, Mr Kourtakis and his media deplete their journalistic hints at the countryside rented by Mr. Tsipras, trying to disorientate from everything I said before, by making publications about the suspectedly high price that he bought or for the suspiciously low amount that he rented it or whether a left politician is entitled to a country house, whether or not he is rented, or whether this is a sexual and undeniable privilege to only the right politicians, who are entitled to have thirty two houses around the world - from Paris to I don't even know where - without ever having any questions from all this petty journalism in Kurtakoyan! How can he, a parent of a political family, not of industrial or shipowners, have thirty two houses and have acquired these, all this real estate, while he hasn't worked too little in his life, and this one with a job his dad found through Simitis and the Governor of the National Bank, Mr. Karaja, then? Isn't that a question for research journalism? So today, the ministers and majority MPs should deal with the problems of our fellow citizens, which the government not only solves, but is growing daily with the ideological obsessions, with the disastrous omissions, with the total lack of fundamental planning in all areas - from health and education and tourism, support for the economy, foreign policy and critical national issues - with the culpritarian and parasite conception of the state. Today you have been dragged here - you have probably not been carried here, you have prepared the letter votes from above, you have no one escaped you, because if it was a real vote, you would still have fifteen, twenty-nine casualties in connection with the lifting of immunity and my own and Mrs Adamopoulos and Mr Marcos - so you came here to satisfy...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u457	That is why, Mr Polakis, all the groups have agreed on the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u458	Don't interrupt me, Mr. President. The defendant has a sanctuary of his apology. Don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u459	Yes, but what has to do with the committee procedure is to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u460	Don't interrupt me! So, isn't it, Mr. Castanides? Does the defendant not have a sacred right to say what he wants?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u461	He's got it, but he might find out...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u462	So you carried yourself here today, unfortunately, to you two and to the President-in-Office, had the duty to satisfy...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u463	...because in the budget debate...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u464	Don't get in the way, but don't get in the way now as a radio parasite! You are doing this to satisfy Mr. Kourtakis, who, yes, is a hypocritical and enthusiastic, because he characterises as the practice of the weaker instruments, if he is going to make use of these, Alexis Tsipras, who systematically devours and exalts and exalts, but he requires it, even when the House had rejected it once, again to vote for him. I understand, this is a very fair transaction that you have done, gentlemen of the New Democracy, with Mr Kurtakis and the man behind him, and I cannot congratulate you on both parts of this relationship, on your dedication and professionalism in the performance of their orderly services. I would like to say that now, before I came to my mind, I should have said that 'you know, yes, I accept that my immunity will be lifted, despite the fact that last time you had not lifted it', but I want to see you, my child, humiliate yourself, voted 'for', which you did not manage to do, so to satisfy Kurtakis, to get out of the way of congratulating you. I want you to reach the last step of humiliation. Finally, I want to refer to two, three more things. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, since the debate that has taken place today and in the case of Mrs Adamopoulou - which is a carbon of my own the first time, which was from things I said here at the Step of this House, and I even named them, Mrs Adamopoulou did not mention a name, she said that some policemen have the role of 'blahalaki', make them 'blahalaki' to dismantle the mobilisations - from this whole conversation that has been made today, on the other hand it seems from another side that you have lost the ball. You have literally lost the ball and no matter how much you make your means, pay polls and make you with 15%, 20%, 30%, 30%, 35%, 120% in front and the others, those of you who go back to your villages, contact online or live - as long as the pandemic conditions allow - with people see this. And I'll tell you two examples only: The law you voted on out of plan construction, what you are doing now, this incomprehensible thing with the click away and small shops...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u465	Mr Pollack, these are budgetary issues, the budget ended last night. Come to your theme, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u466	Thank you for the remark, I'm on it. So no matter what you do, these two things have definitely broken your relationships with a huge piece of small and medium-sized ones that believed in your tax relief - and good! - Now, of course, he's hungry and which brought you to the government. Your seat will be really big! He'll be really big when you fall because trying to keep, dress him up with a "essence", with a pretext of authoritarianism with what Chrysochoidis does. They went and fined a man who moved from Veria to Thessaloniki to do his chemo. And they're not ashamed! They ran into the Moires, the Messara, one who stopped getting a buffalo. You're out of line! And you know, that the principle of categorisation of every regime, as I said before, is authoritarianism. And you think you'll be afraid of us by bringing in immunity and threats of prosecutions and putting Members of Parliament on their minds if they don't talk about finding your own body suing him, etc. Neither do we submit nor stop and we will continue to reveal to you. Head doesn't bend it. We'll throw you out of the government, because you're not worth it in this country. You're not worth it! And that starts now, and the most skeptical ones understand it. The day before yesterday - and I end with these two - I have made an intervention which "victims of the tomb is silenced on the ground"! I told you to bring in addition to the vaccine and medicines that have been authorised exceptionally by the FDA and can save at least half the human lives of these hundreds of people we've been losing every day for a month and a half. Cuvet the Ministry, nothing! You only tried to distort it, that and I'm fine as an invader, etc. You buried that too! I'll bring it back. You don't deserve to rule in this country that way. And I close in my favourite way, with a mandarin that I dedicate to you wherever he sees, because you think that with all that you do, you'll terrorize us, you'll scare us, and you'll make us retreat. So I say this to you, Mr Buga, Mr Athanasios, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy who are here and are watching, but also throughout the world that has supported his hopes in SYRIZA, which will support them again and which will very soon be called upon to regain the fate of the country: 'Since the eagle is hurt, do not feel sorry for him. He will reopen the wings and then be afraid.’ Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u467	According to the Rules of Procedure, who of the Parliamentary Representatives wants the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u468	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u469	We'll start with Mr. Buga. However, I would ask you all to be brief, because you see that we have today done a'multiple' procedure. Of course, there were a lot of cases. Of course, in the parties spoken by their leaders, the parliamentary representatives will show their understanding, because they cannot speak or if they speak, they will have half the time. In any case, however, I think that this has been exhausted by your leaders. Here, Mr. Bouga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u470	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Colleague, Mr. Polakis, go on like this! Don't stop! Keep opposing New Democracy the way you did it today and do it all the time. Of course, because every time Mr. Paulakis takes the Step and comes to the New Democracy with a mandarin like the one he said today, either "The second time will be different", or in any other way, he makes sure that he launches a threat...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u471	Or I said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u472	Don't interrupt. You were talking forty-five minutes and no one interrupted you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u473	So you take care to launch a threat every time. All of this refers to the well-known "We will come back and tremble the earth".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u474	It's embarrassing to say such things! I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u475	You are ashamed to think about it and insinuate it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u476	I didn't say that. Get it back!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u477	To withdraw, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u478	The threats to a parliamentary party "The other time it will be different", "The eagle will be avenged"...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u479	Get it back!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u480	Apologise, now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u481	Please, Mr. Zachariadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u482	To withdraw Mr. Paulakis for "Otherlands, next time..." and the fact that "The eagle will be avenged" and then we will discuss it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u483	Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u484	What are you implying, Mr. Polakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u485	I'm sorry, now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u486	Mr. Buga, you'll have to repack.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u487	Mr Colleague, do not rush, because what Mr Paulakis does confirms what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u488	Do you understand that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u489	You're always insulting us!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u490	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u491	We'll see. Let's calm things down a little now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u492	Ladies and gentlemen, during the debate in Parliament we must bear in mind... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Look, I spoke of a misguided expression by a colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u493	You're interpreting it as you wish!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u494	I'm not interpreting anything. I said associatively that he might refer there. That's all I said. Look, when you keep boiling, when you're threatening, we can't stay afflicted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u495	Wait a minute. Wait down, Mrs. Cassimatis! You're always talking about impressing! You don't sound!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u496	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds once Mr Bugas has finished!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u497	Wait a minute. He said that, from what I understood - I do not know if he wants to clarify it - hypothetically, that is, if he says so. Is that so, Mr. Buga?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u498	Mr President, I do not challenge the parliamentary debate. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u499	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u500	Wait a minute, Mrs. Cassimatis, make it clear. Don't think people are impressed by what you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u501	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't mean nor did I imply SYRIZA. I said that when one uses such expressions in the parliamentary debate, these assembles may also be made. So he should be careful of them rather than the one who says that the gatherings can be made. So I think that you are able in this Chamber to understand it and understand it. Ladies and gentlemen, that is what I meant. I think that was understood. Unless you insist on misinterpreting what, I think, reassuredly arises from my words.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u502	That's great! That's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u503	In the debate, ladies and gentlemen, in Parliament, we must take into account the provisions of Articles 61 and 62 of the Constitution which provide for the parliamentary immunity of a Member of Parliament. The provision of Rule 62 shall establish the Member's impunity which prohibits any restriction and any prosecution against him of any criminal offence which is not required to relate to his parliamentary duties, without the permission of the House. Parliament's permission is compulsory, since the request of the Prosecutor is a crime which is not linked to the exercise of parliamentary duties or to the political activity of the Member.The additional condition laid down in Rule 83(3) of the Rules of Procedure for the waiver of immunity does not conceal political feasibility, it must, after the recent revision of the Constitution, be considered to be inapplicable because it is inconsistent with the letter of the Constitution.The Ethics Committee and the House, in order to decide on the waiver of immunity, shall not control the validity of the charge, rather than the conditions laid down in the Constitution. In view of the above, the committee on the cases of Mr Dionysios Akuppi, Mr Georgios Kaminis, Mr Mamoulakis, Mr Constantine Markos and Mr Antonios Mylonakis, taking into account the wishes expressed before them, as expressed in today's debate in Parliament, in the plenary session, proposes that their immunity should be waived, while the party's secretary proposes that his immunity should not be waived. For the cases of Mr Koutsouba and Mr Poulos: Mr Andreas Koutsoubas and Mr Yota Poulos allegedly violated the measures taken to prevent the spread of the coronary when they participated in a social event organised by a Boeotian sports club. When they appeared before the committee, both colleagues questioned the relevance of the category and claimed that, in any case, the act on which the waiver of their immunity is sought is linked to their political activity. Since the provision of Article 62 of the Constitution introduces an exception to Members as a means of limiting judicial protection and taking into account the case law of the Court of Human Rights, it was considered that the term ‘political activity’ should be interpreted closely and should not relate to social events, as the concept of political activity is extended beyond the will of the constitutional legislature. Furthermore, the claims about quantitative participation, about who stayed longer, participated or not in the dance, are obvious to be tricks of the Left Party parties to protect Mrs Pulou. However, they leave the committee and Parliament's limits on the substance of the case and should not be taken into account at this sitting. With regard to the lifting of the immunity of Mr. Paul Pavlaki, the Prosecutor of the Ice Arrow sent a case against Mr. Paul Pavlakis to determine whether his immunity for the offence of slandering was to be lifted, allegedly to the detriment of the journalist and editor Ioannis Kourtakis. Based on the evidence of the case-file and the allegations made by the colleague with his continuous postings on social media by false indictments - in accordance with the indictment - actual facts, characterisations and evaluation crises that contain realities reported in the knowledge of lies, among other things, that Mr.Kourtakis is a journalist of mud and boar, extreme right essay, collaborating with the parastate, taking millions of euros from CEDEFOP for publishing and putting a banner and breaking out of the mass and fame cut by Mr. Paulakis. The above, as the report says in the indictment, and without the committee or Parliament having the right and the opportunity to go into the essence of the accusation, are the offence of slandering.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u504	What's the lie?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u505	On the basis of the case-file and transmission by the Advocate-General.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u506	What's the lie?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u507	I'll answer you later, Mr. Polakis. Stay calm and I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u508	I'm cool.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u509	So the defendant, in this case, of course, has the right to prove the truth of what he claims. But where will it prove the truth of those who claim it? Not in the House, of course. The House will not turn itself into a court, nor will the Members replace the judges in their duty. In the court, therefore, my dear colleague, there, if it is true that what you are saying is true, you have the right to prove on the basis of equal treatment of procedural weapons, without any of the Members who commit such offences having the right to hide behind parliamentary immunity. Parliamentary quality is not an alibi for vulgarity, rudeness, threats and slander. Immunity in the ruled states whose constitutions provide for the institution is neither a safe house for the sykophant. In particular, immunity cannot disproportionately restrict the right of the defendant to judicial protection. The affected person has the right to restore his honor and reputation, as he certainly has the right to seek protection - and civil and criminal - from the courts. The House shall decide whether the restrictions referred to in Articles 61 and 62 apply. And a necessary point, Mr Polakis, is that the Members of the New Democracy, who did not participate in the vote last time, doubted that your immunity had to be lifted. The facts and then and now objectively constitute the offence of slandering. The courts will judge whether or not they are valid, as is, of course, not the case last time with today's debate in which the waiver of your immunity is judged again. If I am not mistaken - and I am wrong if I am wrong - the last time the offense was that you had accused the defendant of having paid the websites of your constituency in order not to be elected a Member. Now it's about posting on social media at a different time, with different realities. The general picture may be the same, but the offences and today's offences compared to the previous one, which is called for the lifting of your immunity, have nothing to do with it. As far as - a few words are concerned, Mr President - the case of Mrs Adamopoulou, in fact, the case of Mrs Adamopoulou, on the basis of the letter of the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, as she is imported, is being introduced to waive her immunity under the provision of Article 62. However, my colleague did not take part in the debate in the committee, which is why she might be prevented from having a debate on whether or not this case might fall under Rule 62 or Article 61 of the Constitution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Rule 61, in order to speak about this provision, gives Members of Parliament full freedom of opinion and vote in the course of their parliamentary duties, thereby ensuring their independence, with a view to the smooth performance of their public functions. The irresponsibility of the Member - because the irresponsibility of the provision of Rule 61 - covers every opinion made by the Member before the House or by the parliamentary committee. Only one exception is provided for in Article 61, the offence of slandering. My colleague, in presenting her views to the committee, said she meant certain jury policemen and talked about strategic indictment. And that is an issue that has been discussed in committee. The question was also raised whether the legal person, the Police Union, is entitled to file a complaint or not, that is to say, whether it can be the person entitled to file a complaint. But all this, ladies and gentlemen, concerns issues that will be judged in the competent court. The committee and this House, which has to do today, are to see whether the facts, I repeat, as expressed in the indictment, can objectively have the character of slandering. Finally, because the time has also run out, Mr President, I would like to say a few words about the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u510	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u511	Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy's parliamentary majority in matters of immunity decides solely on the basis of the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure of the House and the case-law of the courts. We demonstrate our consistency and respect for the institutions. On the basis of what is coming before the committee and its introduction, the House will decide whether or not the conditions of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House exist for the waiver of immunity. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u512	Mr President, I ask why...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u513	Only parliamentarians speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u514	...on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u515	The staff were clarified and cleaned up that he didn't mean to insult...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u516	I'm not covered by his clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u517	Please, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u518	Mr President, just a minute. You can't give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u519	Wait a minute. Here she explained what she said and I think that is being cleaned up in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u520	It's not enough to clarify it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u521	Good. Then we will apply the Rules of Procedure properly. Mr Polakis, you have the floor for a minute to tell us what the staff consist of.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u522	The staff consisted of trying in a vulgar manner Mr Bougas to distort what I said with the manda at the end and to make it clear that I am a vehicle of Nazi logic. That's personal. Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u523	He gave a clarification about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u524	No, he didn't clarify.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u525	What's the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u526	It will completely withdraw from the Minutes what he said because otherwise he will force me to put on an open hearing the one you have vice-president of your party who sings in a party’s party’s party’s party ‘we will return and tremble the earth’. I'm talking about Adoni Georgiade. To him, say those things. From the nazis, my family has paid. They killed my grandfather. You will not speak to yourself who have given refuge to your party in what remains of the German glossary exist in Greek society. Take back what you said now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u527	He gave the clarification. Would you like to clarify something further? Please, let the tons fall. We're all tired.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u528	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u529	You don't sound. You talked forty-five minutes. Please, Mr Buga, repeat this clarification so that we can finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u530	I did not mean a Nazi culture for either Mr Polakis or for a parliamentary party of course. I wouldn't do it under any circumstances. What I said is that, with these expressions - and I said it well - to protect colleagues who close their speeches with such reports and with threats.... [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] Mr. Polakis, I think from the contents of your speech you're threatening. And you didn't talk about the larvae. You didn't talk about those who commit illegal acts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u531	I talked about the lamoyas! I talked about society's parasites!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u532	That's enough, Mr. Polakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u533	Listen, Mr Polakis: You have referred to the Members of the New Democracy. Take note, therefore, because, I repeat, when one uses such expressions in his word it is dangerous and for our democratic citizens to make such gatherings. I don't challenge them to hurt you. They are caused by themselves, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u534	Will you delete the proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u535	I repeat to you that I never meant and I would not distribute to say that a parliamentary party, other than the form of the Golden Dawn, is governed by Nazi attitude. What I wanted to stress is that these kinds of threats raised by Parliament's Step or by social media were directed towards Members of the New Democracy. You've looked at us. You've been addressing them to us. In fact, you have made this very clear at the end of your speech. So this is dangerous to the democratic city because it refers to association. That is what I wanted to say, and that is what I would point out if it was not understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u536	I think it was enough to clarify it. After clarifying that there is no personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u537	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u538	Here, Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u539	First of all, Mr Buga, you know very well that in parliamentary democracies there is the possibility of changing. How do we do it? You were the government in 2008-2009 and you went bankrupt. Based on what you're saying, you should never come back. And you returned in 2019 to go bankrupt again. It's inside the parliamentary game. Mr. Mitsotakis spoke from this Step yesterday, considering himself as ruling over the next fifteen years. He's straightened it out. We've got it on video. Very soon, too, Mr. Mitsotakis and others will understand that for themselves time begins and concentrates dangerously. So away from us these slogans. Get away from the nazi slogans. The Parliamentary Republic has procedures and institutions. You have always had the logic of dealing with the country, democracy and the institutions of property. And not real estate as a party, to be fair, and as a family to deal with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u540	Now come to the point, Mr. Zachariadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u541	So you will soon understand that the country needs a progressive page with respect for the procedures, the institutions, the citizens and the content of the debate in Parliament. There was a debate yesterday - I will not leave on this issue, Mr President, a minute and a half - and the Prime Minister said from this Step if it is an accident for the country we have...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u542	Please, Mr. Zachariadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u543	These procedures in place here are an accident for the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u544	Mr. Zachariadis, it's a different matter today. It's a special matter. Yesterday's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u545	Yeah, I'm talking about the expert.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u546	What does all this have to do with immunity?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u547	These procedures are an accident. It's insulting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u548	And you and Mr. Polakis if he wanted the party to put you to your special speakers. We cannot talk about what was said in the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u549	No, I'm not talking about the budget, Mr. President. I'll be in 30 seconds. And this process, of convening parliamentarians and criminalising political and parliamentary speech, is disgusting and all that is being done in the media, is misguided. I just want to tell you that the political noise, which has emerged in the last few hours with the resignation of Mrs Crustallis from 'THE VIMA', has another new issue that relates to the political process in the country. The article for which Mrs. Krystals resigned, disappeared from the Platma's website.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u550	Please, that's not about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u551	Of course they do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u552	How do they have to do with it? Aren't we talking about immunity lifts?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u553	About how public dialogue works, about how parliamentarianism works, about how control works...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u554	Mr. Zachariadis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u555	... how democracy works, how editorial interests work, how editorial interests dictate to politicians, what pressures are being exerted,...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u556	We're talking about the ten cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u557	... how free a Member feels to speak from the Step of Parliament, how free a journalist feels to write his opinion about how free a journalist is to report. The contents of democracy are being discussed today. What are we talking about? Whether or not someone's out with a style? What if someone called someone? I tell you, Mr President, and I close with that, that we have a question of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u558	Good. Tell me about the cases. We got ten cases. Say about them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u559	I've got it. The rapporteurs were also placed. I felt this intervention to do, which I wanted to say, and that is what I think is at the heart of the political debate and of the political speech. It is neither the face of Mr Marcos, Mrs Adamopoulou nor Mr Polakis. It's democracy itself. It's not Mrs. Crustalle's face, Mrs. Akrita's or Mr. Haritou's face. We have a regression process. If you don't understand that, I'm so sorry. We understand it and will fight both Parliament and society and public speech and media and everywhere. And we'll win.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u560	The debate on applications for waiver of immunity has been concluded and we are moving on to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the vote includes ten cases of waiver of immunity. Every time on the screen a case appears to be voted on. To show the next or the previous one you should press the arrow on the top right or left side of the screen respectively. Please make sure that you've voted for all cases of waiver of immunity. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would now ask that the electronic voting system be opened, so that Members may vote on applications for waiver of immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u561	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes by colleagues have been sent to the Bureau under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure and the decision of the Conference of Presidents of Thursday, 24 September 2020, with which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the electronic counting, which will be followed and recorded in the Minutes. [[The letters referred to above are entered in the minutes and are found in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[In this respect, it is tabled for the Minutes of the Practical Document of the Members of Parliament of the Movement of Change, Evangelia Likaulis, on the explanation of vote, in accordance with Rule 72A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, concerning the waiver of immunity of Mr Angeliki Adamopoulou, which reads as follows:]] [[To enter page 443a]] Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u562	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of an electronic roll-call vote on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, and of Members of Parliament. Georgiou Kamin, Dionysios Akuppi, Ioannis (Yiannis) Varoufakis, Andreas Koutsouba, Panayois (Giotas) Poulos, Angelikos Adamopoulos, Charalambos (charis) Mamoulakis, Antonio Mylonakis, Konstantinos Markos and Paul Paulakis. On the first case by Mr Georgios Kamine, 293 Members voted in total. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 293 Members voted. In the case of the waiver of immunity, i.e. 'NOV', no one voted. "PARTS voted no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted unanimously. A total of 293 Members voted in favour of Mr Dionysios Akuppi's case. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 293 Members voted. In the case of the waiver of immunity, i.e. 'NOV', no one voted. "PARON" voted no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted by a majority. On the case of Mr Ioannis (Yanis) Varoufakis, a total of 293 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 10 MPs voted. They voted against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OH', 283. "PARON" voted no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected by a majority. Mr Andreas Koutsoubas voted for a total of 293 Members. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 277 Members voted. 2 Members voted against the lifting of immunity. "PARON" voted 14 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted by a majority. In the case of Mrs Panayius (Giota) Poulos, a total of 293 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 182 Members voted. Against the abolition of immunity, i.e. 'NO', they voted 111 Members. "PARON" voted no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted by a majority. In the case of Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou, a total of 293 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 162 Members voted. They voted 116 MPs against the lifting of immunity. 'PARON' 15 MPs voted. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted by a majority. On the case of Mr Haralambos (Haris) Mamoulakis, a total of 293 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 292 Members voted. Against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OR', he voted 1 Member. "PARON" voted no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted by a majority. A total of 293 Members voted on the case by Mr Antonios Mylonakis. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 292 Members voted. Against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OR', he voted 1 Member. "PARON" voted no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted by a majority. On the case of Mr Constantine Markos, a total of 293 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 292 Members voted. Against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OR', he voted 1 Member. "PARON" voted no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted by a majority. On the case of Mr Paul Paul Polakis, a total of 293 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 184 Members voted. They voted against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'Notice', at 109 Members. "PARON" voted no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted by a majority. The result of the electronic roll-call vote is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-16-S1-commons.u563	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that the Standing Committee on Formats Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: "National System of Vocational Education, Training and Lifelong Learning, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2018/958 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 June 2018 on the control of proportionality prior to the establishment of a new legislative regime for the professions (OJ L 173, ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the Hellenic German Youth Foundation and other provisions). Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
