ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before we begin the topical and urgent debate, I should like to make two announcements to this House. I have to tell the House that the Ministers for Labour and Social Affairs, Economics, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Health, Justice, Home Affairs, State, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Tourism tabled on 17-2-2020 a draft law entitled "Security reform and digital transformation of National Social Security Agency (e - E.F.K.A.).(')' [[Referral back to the Co-legislative Standing Committees]] In addition, the Ministers for Rural Development and Food, Economic, Development and Investment, Environment and Energy, Justice, Home Affairs and State tabled a draft law on 17-2-2020: 'Agricultural Cooperatives and Other Provisions'. [[Referral back to the competent Standing Committee]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS I would like to inform you that the Secretary-General of Legal Affairs and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that the questions which will be discussed are number 489/10/220 and number 2553/11/10-2019, which will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis, and by number 488/10/10-2020, a timely question to be answered by the Secretary-General of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Digalakis. The first question, under number 489/10-2020, will be discussed in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Anastasios Hatzibaliou, to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The need to train pupils in the first aid." Here, Mr Hatzidis, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, as you know, the economic crisis has caused serious malfunctions in the National Health System and emergency transport services in health facilities. The problem is even more pronounced in regions in the region, such as my own country in Serres, where many mountain villages are away from health centres or from hospitals. It takes a lot of time when in critical cases it is valuable for the patient to be saved. A positive step towards meeting the urgent needs of the population is early education for citizens in the first aid facilities. Expecting medical care, citizens can provide first aid that is very often crucial to the survival of each patient. There are little cases where we mourn victims of drowning, drowning, injuries, burns, poisoning, brain or even heart problems. Finally, I would particularly like to stress that we need defianceers. Given that seven thousand sudden deaths per year in the country are attributed to heart problems, existence and knowledge of the use of defibrillator are valuable for all of us, much more for our elderly fellow citizens. Again, I will refer to the cases of villages where several fellow citizens there belong to the high-risk groups. So the existence of defianceers at central points of the settlements - because not in schools - and the education of the population in their use can save thousands of lives. So I ask you: Is the Ministry prepared to introduce to schools information for pupils on the provision of first aid and on the use of defibrillators? Secondly, is there planning to put defibrillators in many schools on the ground? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u3	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Hatzidis, thank you for your question today. If I'm not mistaken, that's the first timely question. I think you have chosen a very important issue, so that you start this parliamentary procedure. You are right to refer to your question, come from a county where distances can often be critical to the conclusion of an incident. Obviously, we all wish that the structures were very close to regional structures, if you like, unity. But, because they don't exist, it's good to have caught up with this whole process. The answer cannot be one-dimensional or simple. Generally, when it comes to the health of our people, our loved ones, our loved ones, we stand with great attention to any fact affecting their health. So let us see what happens with regard to the learning of first aid in the school unit at the moment, but also the initiatives that we are taking on this. In primary education, the theme of first aids is already included in the interactive health education activities, in accordance with the Temporary Single Programming Framework and the compulsory education programmes. The health education is part of the flexible zone course. This is from 1st to 4th grades, as well as in school activities implemented each year. For secondary education and through the material of different cognitive objects themes on first aid are taught. I would, for example, like to mention some of them. In Physical Education I, II and III high school, especially in chapter 5, we have the risks of injuries, prevention and first aid. In the Household Economy I and 2 of high school we have in chapter nine the first aids. In the 2nd class of the daily and evening PAPAL we have two hours a week of first aid in the field of health, welfare, well-being, which is laboratory. The FPI, the school year 2019-2020 approved nine related to the first training programmes of competent bodies. I would like to say to you again a few of these things, because we are talking about bodies that radiate throughout Greece are responsible for the first aid. The School Age Learners’ Educational and Cardiopulmonary Refreshment Education Program is the KIDS SAVE LIVES organisation. Children save lives for the school year 2019 and 2020. Keep this label. I would like to go back to that specifically for your own region. There is also the educational programme of actions in the school year 2019-2020 of the EAFRD. An important partner is EKAV Heraklion, which is directed at students of Regional Education, Crete, on health education and promotion, volunteering and first aid. There is an approval of an educational program and material for the Doctors of the World regarding first aid. It also approved the 'First Children' intervention by the Institute for Health of the Child, as well as thirteen requests for the development of actions and awareness-raising interventions by the Ministry of Health. There are also programs of the Greek Red Cross for students, which are included in a wider "First Children Aid" programme, as well as many more programs for Attica volunteers on research and rescue issues. And one particular thing I was also mentioned about the Photidida Medical Association - and I quote it - 'Medical Community of People in Education'. You can see, then, that there is a shield of many bodies around our schools, but that has this feature. It has this fragment, if you want, many times a fragmented framework of activities, which we would like to have as an opportunity, to give it to all our children and teachers. I will return to my dentistry - so that we do not have a problem of time - on the second part of your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u5	Today we have no problem with time. Mr. Hatzidis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I am pleased that there is planning for this serious issue. I believe that education in early school aid will save human lives, but it will also help make our population much more sensitive and gain a sense of security. I am pleased that you have referred to the 'KIDS SAVE LIVES'. That is why I tabled this question. A few weeks ago this NGO came to Serres and held a very interesting seminar on the training of students at the first aids we all saw how serious and important this is. I am pleased that you have also referred to the EAW, since its rescuers are doing important social work and they could also contribute to it. And I would remind you that there are also plans in the local civil protection mechanisms that we might be able to use in the future. I know that there is a good intention and a first project in my area. We could discuss this in a second year. School, then, does not only mean language and history. You're an instructor and you know it. School means preparation for adult life, it means responsibility. I therefore believe that if we really move on to the education of our students in first aid, the children will become much more responsible and they will be much more ready for the rest of their lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u7	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u8	And because here, obviously, we don't give a wish as we'd probably do if we thought, it's very correct to refer to specific programmes. Specific programmes, therefore, with the very harmonious understanding of many bodies. So - what I mentioned before - how are we going to be able to win the bet on all the children in Greece for at least once on the part of their own presence in school learning first aid? Putting this type of theme into the timetable. How do we do it? With the help of the Institute of Education Policy. Already with the design for the inclusion of health-related modules in the new themes to be taught in compulsory instruction from kindergarten to Graduate III, in the last grade of high school, students can also gain contact with the first aid course and, secondly, acquire the necessary skills to cope with emergencies. In this part I must tell you that, apart from the bodies I have already mentioned, "KIDS SAVE LIVES", EKAV, the Greek Red Cross, it is the Civil Protection Service - we had a meeting with the Secretary-General very useful and critical - with their own intention to help in this part as well. So yes to joining the compulsory programme and, at the same time, yes to what you said before, to a full-fledged development of the child's personality. And because you come from Serres, I would remind you of the programme that is currently running in Central Macedonia from the Region of Education in Central Macedonia, which almost two thousand teachers have already been trained experientially in the first aid section, and now they will function as ambassadors, if you want, in schools, so that this thing can be broadcast to students throughout the region. Obviously this is a good example for the rest of the education regions throughout Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. Now, by the way, since you're all here, that is Mr. Hadjivassiliou and you, this high school story in Rodolivos, which the kids are going to the first, has it been solved? It used to be high school in Rodolivo, then went to the first. The reasons are understandable.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u10	We're still in a discussion process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u11	Okay. So we continue with our first question with the number 2553/11-12-2019 question of the circle of petitions and questions by the MP Ioanninas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Mr.Meropes Toufis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Serious problems in Greek-language education abroad. Staffing, organization and non-paid questions to teachers’. Mrs. Jufi has the floor for two minutes to develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, indeed this question was tabled more than two months ago. We have a significant delay, and I hope you can tell us more than we had asked at the time. We all agree that the long-term existence of Greek communities and the long migration of many young people in the foreign countries require the Ministry of Education to provide substantial support and upgrade the Greek-language education of the Diaspora. However, in the new school year, we know that many things did not start smoothly. We had complaints from the Association of Parents and Princess of the Greek High School of Nuremberg and publications that saw the light of publicity. The school is faced with a serious problem of functioning due to many teaching gaps in all three classes of high school. They have already been to you since the beginning of the year. They're both about high school and high school. A reflection is also recorded on the placement of the new training coordinator who had been in office early September, but was expected to retire due to age in the coming months. At the same wavelength, inadequacies of teaching staff are recorded in the Greek high school Stuttgart, the only high school in the Land of Baden-Württemberg. I have a letter from the 15-member school board to the Ministry, which speaks of serious shortages of teachers even in courses considered in the pan-Hellenic exams. Problems are also recorded for the payment of the external allowance, the wage, the seconded teachers, who are granted to cover the well-known fixed costs of living and living and which, because we increased the budget by 17% and compared with the previous year by 41%, were allowed and extended by one year by the previous government. However, it seems that it has not yet been paid. Also, as ELME and the Greek Educational Primary Association of North Rhine-Westphalia point out, this is also being delayed there and not only found in Germany but also in other foreign countries, which creates additional difficulties for teachers, students and communities. Given that 2018-2019 was an increased rate of coverage of educational gaps and due to the prolongation of the payroll and the reintroduction of the organic position of the posted, but also because the administrative mechanism of the Ministry of Education had the necessary know-how to ensure the timely placement of teachers in schools, the EIFs and the seats of New Greek Studies, I would like you to reply to me today. What is the rate of coverage of educational gaps in Greek-language education schools around the world and what do you intend to do to fill the remaining gaps, which I have already mentioned, in the high school and high school of Nuremberg and in Stuttgart high school? What actions will you take to re-establish the malfunctioning of the payroll for teachers? What are the reasons for the delay in a planned monthly payment procedure? Is it just a bureaucratic issue, or is something else happening? What is the budget of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs for Greek-language education abroad for the financial year 2020? I would remind you here that in the previous years from 2010 to 2015, we had a demolition of the budget, but we tried to have an increase of 41% in 2018 and, as I have already said, 15% compared to 2019. Now that things are better from an economic point of view, are you considering the prolongation of the payroll of abroad during the second year of relocation, namely 3 + 2, restoring teachers' wages to pre-crisis levels? I've got two more questions, but I'm gonna stop because they're over time and I'm gonna say it in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u13	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u14	Mrs. Jufie, you've been nursed at the Ministry. You know many aspects of this problem anyway. I would call it a problem and a question because every region around the world has its own particular treatment anyway. I am, however, going to a more general comment on the question of the connection between Hellenism abroad and the country, which is dealt with by this government as a matter of national importance. We are of particular interest to maintain, extend and deepen this bond, and, in fact, in all areas, as evidenced by the essential law for the vote of Greeks abroad, which the government has brought him and your party to the start, having a ambiguity, was not very in favour and ultimately accepted and voted for it. We are also interested in Greek-language education. Our language, in any case, is one of the pillars of the identity of an identities of the earth, a part of which is continually and cultivated, which we want our children and young people, who, in fact, have left with their families in recent years, to maintain. And it is very important that the conquest as a nation of this small population and with its geographical footprint, as well as the limited resources, even in the trial of the crisis - and that I think that should be heard - is that there has been and is the country that has been seconded teachers to foreign schools and has such a living education network in the lengths and backs of the world. And that is for us, I must tell you a point on which we are proud, despite the issues that we should be dealing with anyway. I am pleased that you mentioned data and figures and I would therefore like to continue this debate and go to the question of the budget of Greek-language education. The sum you received from the former government of New Democracy was, Mrs. Jufi, EUR 17 million. That was the budget. The point you reached was EUR 9 million and, for two years, 2016 and 2017, the lowest in the recent history of the Greek state, half of what you received. In 2018-2019 there was indeed an increase. It has reached EUR 15 million, again less than the point you received it, and now we are going to the point where it is this year, with our budget forecasts, that is, in December. It is 20 million euros, 33% increased by what you handed us over and, in fact, in the first year of our term of office with a further increase in time. As far as the fine is concerned, the same. You mentioned it. You receive it from the previous government, in 2015, always speaking at EUR 11 million. The point you reached was EUR 5 million and, for two years, 2016 and 2017, again the lowest in the recent history of the Greek state, again half of what you received. In 2018-2019 there was indeed an increase. It was at EUR 10 million, but again less than what you received. It's yours anyway. You've also put some evidence into your question. And this year, with the forecasts always adopted in December, it is EUR 15 million - I am talking about the budget - increased by 50% compared to what you delivered us. You will now tell me that this is also provided for in Law 4610/2019 for the additional year, that is the extra that has been given. But when did he come as a law? He came up at the end of your term of office. It came just a month and a half before you actually lost the election, during a pre-election period in the European elections, twenty days before the poll, when you ruled - not specifically in this particular position, but your predecessors - almost five years, leaving the implementation, if you like, to the next government. I would therefore say, after using numbers, that the present government with the seven months of governance has its intentions and works on them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u15	Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u16	Because all things have been kept on track and you have referred to it, I have to say specific numbers too. From 2010 to 2015 it is known that our country has been in the crisis since the previous governments, the New Democracy and the PASOK, and that is where the funding of Greek-language education has collapsed, which has been reduced by 84%. It has led to the closure of school units, a cut in the wages of posted teachers, and it has indeed caused serious problems in the staffing of schools and, of course, a question of the quality of the education provided. The government of SYRIZA did a very big, struggling, effort and indeed took the country out of the memorials. Even before the exit, however, it was precisely because it was very important in this area too, that it made a very great effort to raise these amounts and the available funds. It was said that already in 2017 we have had an increase in the budget of 41% and in 2019 by 15%, and I am glad that in the budget you have made further increases. So I asked you a very specific question about what you are planning to do about one of the issues that existed and still exists abroad, about the incentives for high-qualified teachers, to decide to go abroad. The question is whether you intend to increase, as an incentive, for another year the remuneration for teachers, since you have an increased budget. I would also like to ask you why I did not receive any answer if the coverage rates this year in Germany, where we have the main problems, but in the rest of the world, are higher than those we have achieved, with lower budgets, in previous years. Let me remind you here that we redesigned the institutional framework in 2016 and also that we have created a new coordination office in the Balkans, in Bucharest, which, as far as I know, has so far not been covered. It was a necessity that came from both the educational and the general community of the region. We founded new schools and TECs in Europe, Africa and Australia, where the conditions were met. We have tried to serve the seats of Neo-Greek Studies in foreign universities, which is a very big bet and which wants debate from almost zero to what we are doing and how we are going in this direction. It is also an issue that I did not have time to ask in my prototype, because I consider it crucial, that we do what we do with the coordinators of foreign education, who play the role of'small Ministers' and the function, as you know, of schools abroad. We had set up a committee and had proceeded with the setting up and selection so that through a fully credible and transparent process the best ones could be chosen. I know they've been placed with a ministerial decision. What are the selection criteria? When and by whom did the CVs come from? What was the opinion of these training officials, which, as you said, were correct in my opinion, we all want to play a major central role in teaching, administrative and wider educational support for Greek-language education abroad? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u17	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u18	Mrs Jufi, because I believe that the figures are indeed characteristic, I also answered for the budget the general budget and for the budget of the salaries where you have reached the amount, where you have reached it and, indeed, where we are at the moment and what we intend to do. If it turns out that New Democracy, having handed over a budget that was higher than EUR 17 million, you reached EUR 9 million and we now reload it to EUR 20 million, and if this is not a reading, what can I say to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u19	Ms. Zacharaki, the numbers are different. I can testify to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u20	I leave the evidence here, and the world who listens to us both in Greece and abroad can assess it. Let's get some more numbers. So let's go to the gaps. The gaps before June 2019 were about five hundred eighty. These were estimated to be. In parallel extracts, which were launched in June, we arrived very soon under three hundred and fifty gaps and new secondments, which I have, and I repeat, have the dates before me - we are doing with the competent authority, which you said just now, I think, has the administrative competence. She didn't lose her in seven months. On the contrary, I would say about these people we are relying on so as to ask for their own cooperation and to be able to manage in time to send new teachers or those with an extension, we must at least say that they have not lost their administrative capacity in the last seven months. On the contrary, they also have a political leadership that helps in this part by strengthening the budget. So at the moment, then, the gaps that remain are ninety all over the world. I would remind you, since you want to make the comparison with last year, that last year it was more than a hundred and twenty blanks. Now someone will come and tell me, “Can we play a game that everyone says “Here was over a hundred and twenty and now ninety?” Yes, we will do it to make a comparison, that has been achieved. However, we must also have the targeting of how to heal the issue of needs. And our intention - and this is a stated intention of the Minister and my intention at the Ministry - is to start this process a long time ago. So I repeat - I say this today, we have said this before in a committee - that we will start the distraction process earlier, so that we do not get to a last minute by ensuring that our communities around the world are able to come the teacher - the instructor is not always easy, it is not every region that everyone chooses, often there is an invitation and you know it and you know it as the State Secretary responsible, Mrs Jufi, that you have also lived it - but at least from the Ministry's point of view there will be the intention and the administrative procedure, which this thing will ensure. At the same time, we also want to activate the inactive process of hiring Greek expatriates from the outside. There was a provision in the law without, however, describing the procedure. So that's something we want to heal. Our legal teams are already working on it. As far as Germany is concerned. It was done by the Ministry, in fact, every effort to fill the gaps and I am talking at the moment, knowing that I am talking to teachers, who either belong to ELME or are serving in schools there, but, above all, teachers and children, a great deal of effort has been made - so I would say - difficulties. Indeed, we had an open dialogue with both children and parents and teachers. Our Secretary-General was there a few days ago, at two different times, he discussed and explained to all stakeholders, by additional invitations, and secondments covered most of the gaps. In fact, there has also been a new supplementary invitation for the first time for a specific region, the region of the Munich Coordination Office, which is the only one to identify such issues anyway. As I told you from the new school year, a definitive solution is under way in this matter, with the secondment procedure completed earlier and, of course, with the implementation of an inactive process of recruitment of Greek expatriate workers. You raised the question of the payment of a salary. This has been resolved. And you know that or you should know, since you've been through the Ministry and you know it well that the question is not that at the beginning of the postings the rent is not paid, it's that there's a check - and you know that, and you're asking me - there's an economic check by the competent authorities, before the Chamber is paid, which requires some time. This has happened for your days too, you know it very well, you ask. Okay, I didn't want to go on with this conversation. The question has been resolved, the question of the payment of salaries has been resolved and an effort has been made so that we do not have to answer this question of time, that is to say, that there is no time-limit for having resolved these questions with the competent authorities earlier. For the fifth year, we have a positive attitude in this regard within the financial framework. We are also talking about teachers and the relevant coordinating offices around the world. But we need to see if we have the margin. In any case, we have asked for a study on this, to see whether this can be covered in the financial framework. For the process of selecting coordinators. Well, you arrived at the nearest five years, and in an election period, for a selection procedure that had several points that caused and unfairness, one of them was the exclusion of teachers who had already completed five years. In fact, in some way you criminalized the experience, and this was against the introduction of both the hereditaries and the same service. We will therefore proceed to a different selection framework, in an objective, worthwhile process, without injustices, such as our intention to make changes to Law 4415, with the aim of simplifying procedures, integrating the experience of our local coordinators and teachers and real focusing on the needs of Greek-language education abroad. Our allies in this effort are the communities, the people who run the Greek language sections all over the world, the people who have lived in Greek-language education years hurt her and want to see her move on. In conclusion, Mr President, in order not to eat the time from the State Secretary and the next question, you have reached the Greek-language education budget at the lowest point in your history, we are increasing it by 33% and more of the time. We have fewer gaps since last year and we are launching procedures for the permanent resolution of the issue of gaps by secondments that will become earlier and mature foreigners being able to work in schools. We are making changes - and we will make changes - to the Greek-language law making it even simpler and more targeted to the real needs of Greek-language education. And we attach the importance it deserves and deserves to connecting the Depopulation of Hellenism with our homeland to our policies not only as Ministry of Education and Religion, but generally as a government that serves - and will serve - the national objective, until the last day of our term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u21	I imagine your follow-up in Berlin, Nuremberg, Munich, etc. cannot continue. I've given you and Mrs. Jufi a lot of time. That's good. Well, thank you very much to the Minister. I should like to inform the House that it will not be requested after consultation of MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Notopoulou, with the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Theocharis, the first timely question with number 490/10-2-20, on the subject: "The Greek Tourism Organisation (E.T.)" is driven into a shrinkage.’; The question will be discussed some other time. We shall now proceed to the debate on the last timely question, to which the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs Mr Dygalakis will reply. It is the second under number 488/10/220 of the First Cycle, Evia MP of the Radical Left Coalition.Evangelos Apostolos to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Suspension of three sections of the National Kapodistrian University in Psachna Evia". Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor for two minutes at first with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with the resolution of Law 4653/2020 on higher education, you suspended the operation of thirty-seven new university schools, including the three departments of the National Kapodistrian University of Athens, which were founded with Law 4589/2019 to operate in Psachna, Evia. The reassessment you have decided is not based on either study programmes or on operational procedures or lack of funding. The University set up the temporary general meeting of the Department of Nutrition and Dietology at the meeting on 5-3-2019, and the interim general meeting of the Department of Tourism and Alternative Tourism at the Senate meeting on 11-7-2019. The general meetings of these departments appointed committees forming the curriculum in accordance with Article 32 of Law 4009/2011. These programmes, Minister, shall be considered certified until the completion of a certification process by the Quality Assurance Authority in accordance with Articles 70 to 72 and 80 of the same law. The establishment and operation of these departments is of particular importance to the Kapodistrian University, as stated in the 2019-2028 Strategic Development Plan, the evolution of undergraduate studies is an important strategic tool. In this context, the will, the university's strategy involves, on the one hand, strengthening its technological dimension, on the other, establishing new schools, and, on the other, establishing a very new school, which will cure self-sufficiently and scientifically modern areas of sustainable development, product development and, in general, rural areas. In fact, at the Senate meeting on 11-7-2019 he also formed the temporary county of the School of Rural Development, Nutrition and Sustainability. So, Minister, you are ignoring all this and pleading for no reasons, how much more so when, not only did the university embrace this regulation, but it also considers that it contributes to its own upgrading?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Apostle. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and two educational attendances from the high school of Komotinis. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Guys, what you are monitoring right now is a parliamentary procedure where any Member may ask, after he has first consulted the Minister concerned, to respond to him with his knowledge, experience and also his responsibility. This is the process that you are currently monitoring. You are not attending, that is, a plenary sitting, but these questions. I think you're lucky to be watching her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u24	For the kids, we're talking about education.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u25	Yeah, they get it. Mr. Digalakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Apostolos, having referred to laws, I would like to remind you that in the summer of 2017, in your party, SYRIZA voted for Law 4485, which provided for - as all previous institutional frameworks in higher education, and rightly did - that to make changes to the map of higher education - and these changes mean mergers of universities, establishments, renames, mergers of departments and schools - the Independent Quality Assurance Authority, the IP. Do you know why all the institutional frameworks provide for this? Because one possibility would be for all universities to come and establish the same department in twenty cities. Here we have come to have the phenomenon, the same university to establish and have sections, the same section, the same object in two different cities. Nursing in Thessaloniki, appendix of the Dimotech. I also said in my speech when the law on the new independent authority was discussed that you set up a hundred sixty new departments and not one of them was at the core of the Wednesday Industrial Revolution and of the data science, which these departments and their curriculum programs are all over the world. On the contrary, what you did was to circumvent your own law, Law 4485 and last year, with a series of legislative decrees, to establish departments and schools across Greece, without having been evaluated by the Quality Assurance Authority. What we did is we didn't dismantle the departments, as you said. What we did was in the departments, which have not been suspended, so that, in a way and attitude that is responsible for students - because what we have in mind is what students will study and what prospects of professional employment will be in the next day - to be assessed by the upgraded High Authority, the National Higher Education Authority and then, if the independent authority positively assesses sustainability, the curriculum of these departments, proceed to the establishment of an operation. What I'm telling you is what I told the representatives of Evia who had come to the Ministry. It is the same thing that it is not the Minister's job to assess, according to what is appropriate and with other criteria, the establishment of departments. The job is to oversee and build that institutional framework, which will make it possible to establish departments, which will ensure prospects for vocational employment for graduates, with modern subjects of study. I do not go into evaluating these sections at all. What will happen is that the HR will assess them and, if it is a good opinion, their functioning will proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Apostle has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u28	Minister, you invoked me other departments, other regions. My question is specific, and it concerns the departments of the University of Athens in Psachna, because having the university as a guide, in fact, to the establishment of these departments, you can understand that everything you ask I have said and others I will tell you now, that is, all the conditions required do not need to be reviewed, because the findings have now come to light, the relevant certificates have come out. Finally, what you are doing is abolishing these schools. I will take it as a political decision, which you have taken on these sections, because, as I have said, it is not based on existing issues relating to curricula and the use of transitional provisions, in fact, to have them certified. You know, Minister, you, perhaps better than me, that the Kapodistrian University is a university that is in a very good place worldwide. It is already in the seventy-fourth place all over the world, in the eleventh place in Europe and, of course, in our country from the first institutions. He's taken it with such a heat from the university and has already made moves, he has created structures that support this center that we want to build, the Center of Excellence "Good Food and Authenticity" with the following aims. First, the development and implementation of new research methodologies in identifying and certifying the authenticity of national priority food. There is a great deal of effort in this country, particularly in the agri-food sector, which is one of the areas that can make a significant contribution to the country's production reconstruction, and with this particular quality of food, you can see that these structures - in particular, again - must be created in the Messpine region, which is especially rural. So at least make a commitment that you will not abolish the schools, because your excuses have said that they are not correct and, secondly, do not delay the relevant procedures, because it seems that, through the delay, you will be able to keep these departments from working for next year. Local society needs this intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u29	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u30	Mr Apostle, first of all, I would like to ask you, if you have an opinion from the IPP, which says that these sections are to be well established and started, to submit it in the Minutes, because there is no such opinion. The ADI has never given an opinion on the merging of Mr Gavroglou of universities with TEIs. In no case did he express the opinion provided for by Law 4485 and that was to prevent the previous political leadership from being unlawful. Instead of following the path of founding through presidential decrees, he legislated on all occasions. You are asking us to make the same mistake as the previous political leadership. The ministers are coming and going. But if we want to have a long-term political strategy as a country in education and higher education, we should respect institutions and procedures. I have no disagreement with you that the objects you mentioned are very important. However, I am not the one who will be consulted by the Ministry of Education. It is the independent authority that will examine the dossiers, look at sustainability, look at the curriculum and decide positively and, as I said in my prototype, the establishment of these departments will proceed. You're saying we're stalling. But that's not our position, that's not our business. The one who will assess the departments is not the Ministry of Education, as you constantly repeat. It's the independent authority. I think it makes sense, but I cannot suggest this to the independent authority, that parts which were going to work in the next academic year, once it has been established - I know that this is being done at a rapid pace - will look at them with priority, but this is still its own decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u31	But be careful, the priority...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u32	Please, Mr. Apostle. I think that Parliament is more experienced than the Minister, so you are fully aware of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-17-S1-commons.u33	With the consent of the House at 18.52 the sitting is closed for Tuesday, Tuesday, 18 February 2020, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
