ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the daily dimension of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: 'Strengthening the School and other provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 4 June 2020 to discuss the draft law in two meetings. Today's sitting will be discussed and the bill will be passed in principle. At tomorrow's meeting the articles of the bill will be discussed and voted on as a unity, as well as the entire bill. In today's debate, the rapporteurs and the special speakers will be present for 15 minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives for twelve minutes, the speakers on the list for seven minutes and the Minister responsible for eighteen minutes in accordance with Rules 64, 96 and 97 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I therefore propose that the parties be represented in proportion to their parliamentary power with a circle of forty speakers as follows: Twenty-two speakers from New Democracy, twelve speakers from SYRIZA, three speakers from the Change Movement, two speakers from the Communist Party of Greece and one speaker from the Greek Solution and from Mera25 respectively. Speaking time will also be seven minutes. I would also like to inform you that the list will be exhausted today. So there's no limit when we stop at night. If we stick to our time, we will end at a relatively reasonable time. That is to say, there will be no transfer of speakers for tomorrow. On a point of order, which, if I remember correctly, was unanimously accepted in the Conference of Presidents, does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. We are starting with the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Ioannis Andrianos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, two are the main conflicting approaches and philosophies on the crucial issue of education, the future and the role of school in our country. It is the first one which is clearly reflected in the forecasts of the bill that we are debating today, but also before that, that has been reflected in the detailed election programme of the New Democracy for education, which has been set in time for the citizens' judgement. This approach sees public education as the most important tool we have as a society for correcting unjust inequalities, as the key that opens roads for the creation, preparation and happiness for children from every corner of our country and from every social and economic background. This approach wants the public school of modern and quality, to offer true whole education, but also useful life skills, to form citizens free, responsible and useful to their fellow people and to the community as a whole. To cultivate virtue, to make up the knowledge of the right and the wrong, the good and the bad and, on the one hand, the courage of selecting one responsibly and consciously. This approach, therefore, wants the school to encourage, recognise, actively reward and support the love of learning, hard work and the distinction of excellence in whatever field children themselves choose - and it suits them - to combine harmoniously and creatively the enormous cultural legacy of Greek culture and classical letters with the knowledge, tools and best practices of modern times, without complexes, fears and ideoleptic anchorages, but with the confidence that Greece can and must be a lighthouse of education and culture with wider international radiation. The second counter-dimensional approach is that which has been reflected in the educational policy of the retreat government, but also in the positions and arguments of colleagues from the Officerial Response these days. It is the approach, which, as a democratic obligation, is perceived, not by encouraging discrimination, but by equalisation. And this, despite the fact that the implementation of this view in public school is clear that it extends and does not restrict inequalities and gap with rich families, which in one way or another will ensure quality education for their children. It is the approach of minor effort and fear. The approach that baptizes "rets" excellence, which, from the outset, rejects any discussion to assess the educational work and the teachers, who wants to subjugate the universities into a suffocating central control, which suppresses every initiative, but also violent and marginal minorities, which no one has to do with the mission of higher education. It is the approach of sterile and ideological refusal. On the introduction of English to kindergarten, for example, what did we hear from SYRIZA? Firstly, that it is a measure of dispediment and that something similar applies only to three countries. When the Minister presented surveys showing the benefits of children's contact with a foreign language at this age, but also information from the Eureka network, showing that the measure is now being successfully implemented in fourteen countries, conspiracy began, that they are served - listen! - American interests. This is another succession of positions, which only reveals is, in principle, an ideological disposition, as it is clear that there is little room for consensus and consensus between these two approaches. And that is a pity, because, above all, education must be a matter of composition and a pan-national strategy. There is, however, also a third, less systematic but important approach, that of the people of education and of the wider society, who are reasonably faced with distrust, reluctance and suspicion of any change, above all because our state often proves to be unreliable, but also unable to ensure a positive sign of the changes it legislates. Against these teachers, these young people, these parents, our responsibility is even greater. There our debt is twofold: on the one hand, to ensure practically the positive mark of the important changes that this draft law contains to assess the educational work, to strengthen the teaching of English, to introduce skills workshops, to the basis of the 'twelfth', to the subject bank, to the lesson, to strengthen the models and experiments, but, on the other hand, to broadly implement this bill as a catalyst for restoring confidence in our society, whose lack of confidence is 'provoking' and undermining every prospect of progress in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill known in advance to all interested parties both in its central philosophy and in its basic individual forecasts has been discussed in detail both during the public consultation phase and in the preparation of it in the relevant parliamentary committee. It is a bill with a reasonable downwards, starting from kindergarten to university, with improved changes, with a direct character, wherever possible and necessary, but with sufficient time to adapt where necessary, so that life plans for children, families and teachers are not overthrown. In my report I will develop in detail the changes that are being introduced. In the time left, I will mainly refer to those provisions of the draft law which give a clearer indication of the internal logic and philosophy that governs it. The first part of the bill introduces skill workshops from preschool to high school, with four thematic circles: Ev, environment, social empathy and responsibility, creative thinking and initiative and individual thematics, concerning volunteering, ecological awareness, road safety, prevention of dependence, mutual respect and diversity, as well as entrepreneurship, sexual education, robotics and new technologies. Where the government of SYRIZA did not dare, the current government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis dared, providing children with important mild skills in a way of scientific and pedagogical, systematic and programme. The familiarity of the children of kindergarten with elements of English and the teaching of English in primary schools is also enhanced, as is the teaching of Informatics, Classical Letters and Physical Education as a whole. This is a measure which, as will soon be shown in the act of education, can only have positive results. In the high school, seven out of four subjects in question are defined as the basis of the "twelfth" or an average of the "twelfth" for the promotion and dismissal of pupils. There is a limit of four courses to be reviewed in September and the second examination in June is abolished, while the designation of conduct in secondary education is restored. These forecasts aim to gradually remove from the logic of the minor effort, strengthen the structure and orientation of the educational programme and, above all, to directly link their actions, choices and consequences to the conscience of the child, which is not being achieved effectively in an environment of overly relaxation, which undermines the life-threatening adult culture of tomorrow's personal responsibility. In high school, the bank of classified difficulties is re-established and the system of introduction to universities is adapted, by reducing the steering teams from four to three, restoring the gravity factors to two lessons per scientific field, restoring the Latin to the training courses of the Humanities Guidance Group, as well as introducing the "contra" course of Mathematics and History according to the Guidance Group. This strengthens the role of high school as an autonomous level of global education and culture and creates a common and coherent framework for material coverage and an objective assessment. At the same time, it is particularly good that the EPA is launching new curricula and new books for all levels of school, with emphasis on the development of new skills, the use of multiple sources and comparative analysis, and the implementation of innovative teaching methods. With regard to standards and experimental schools, these valuable tools to encourage excellence and block all public schools with innovative practices, the bill moves decisively in the direction of strengthening and extending them, in the belief that the more opportunities of discrimination, excellence and preparedness we give our children, in any field and subject matter they choose and fit them, both better for ourselves and for our society as a whole. This is why it is particularly important and symbolism that the government's strategic choice to start extending the standards and experimental, the SYRIZA "schools of elite" from western Attica. Furthermore, the provisions of the bill aimed at substantially strengthening Greek-language education abroad, more effectively covering gaps and providing incentives for teachers are also important. As regards the planning and evaluation of the educational project, just as we had undertaken before the citizens, a new framework for evaluation, which includes both internal self-assessment, at the level of the school unit, as well as external evaluation by the relevant CPI, is being established, with the active role of the EPI and the Quality Assurance Authority in primary and secondary education. It is an absolutely mature, fair and necessary reform, which recognises and highlights the personal responsibility of the teacher, the autonomy of the school unit and ensures the conditions for the continuous strengthening of the quality of education provided by the public school. And it is particularly important to underline this nature of the measure and its aim not to act punishably, but as an effective tool in the hands of the educational community for the sake of the education process as a whole, the fact that it is accompanied by substantial opportunities for continuing further training and training for teachers of all levels. In particular, I would also like to focus on the new institution of school-leaving consultants, who will intervene, guide and train parents and guardians on issues such as crisis management, prevention and treatment of extreme behaviours, learning difficulties, and forecasts for more effective treatment of school intimidation. Faced with this present problem, the toolbox, the means and possibilities available to teachers to intervene effectively, both for the protection of intimidators and for changing the behaviour of intimidators are essentially strengthened. It is also necessary to regulate the draft law aimed at more efficiently covering gaps in teachers, in particular in difficult areas, including double moleculosis, the two-year term of validity of the ranking tables and the exclusion penalties for teachers who do not undertake service in schools in the areas they have chosen. As I pointed out in committee, even in areas of relatively small distance from the capital, for example in mountainous areas of Argolida, it is common that there will be gaps in schools for months, even for courses in which children will be considered for their introduction to higher education. These regulations, as well as the provisions concerning the appointments to special education, as is the process of completing the recruitment of four thousand five hundred teachers, and the tables for more than a thousand teachers and auxiliaries of special education have been published, are institutionally responding to this existing problem, which prevents the constitutional requirement from being met on an equal footing with all pupils in the field of education. In tertiary education, finally, the provisions of the bill serve our declared vision of a university with enhanced autonomy, extroversion and dynamism, which can accomplish its mission intact, free from ideologies and exogenous, unfair interventions. Among these provisions, I stress the possibility of setting up foreign-language undergraduate programmes, joint and double programmes between Greek and foreign universities, as well as summer programmes, rationalising the context of the relocations, introducing the academic criterion and strengthening the multi-faceted families, and modernising the process of promotion of the Republican authorities, in a way that strengthens transparency, accountability and university autonomy. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have pointed out in the drafting of the bill in committee, in the past few weeks, teachers and teachers, students and students, and our educational community, from kindergarten to university, have given us all a good lesson in conscientiousness, quality and optimism. In these exceptional circumstances, they quickly adapted to the needs of the juncture, learned to operate efficiently and creatively new tools, kept the educational process alive, despite the quarantine, and sent the message that we will get out of this test winners. We must therefore, against these teachers, against these children and young people who are trying twice, without losing their courage, humiliation and optimism, against the Greek family, who once again endured the hardest, to ensure all the institutional, material and moral conditions, so that our education would become even better, even more qualitative, more competitive. The educational reality of our country is expressed by these many, existential and important nuclei of quality and excellence, which exist in every kindergarten, in every school, in every university, and are now waiting for recognition, encouragement, support, interconnection, their emergence in a model of inspiration and example. We on this side choose to be the demand that a small group of students have expressed over the past few days to spend their six-month courses without coronary tests, as well as the vast majority of young people who have been looking forward to going back to school as a simple joke. We do not highlight it as the Civic Opposition does at the centre of our approach to education. We want a school of creativity and dynamism, initiative and responsibility, a school of modern and quality that will encourage our children to be made every day, and better in knowledge and virtue, a school that reflects our determination to strengthen the identity of our country that was reborn two hundred years before the mission to be a lighthouse for education and culture for humanity. So this school is a step closer to this bill, which I invite you to vote for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u4	The rapporteur-general has the floor from SYRIZA, Mr Nikolaos Philis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for a left-wing MEP to speak today in Parliament on behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group at this historic moment for the whole world, on the basis of what we are living, on the occasion of the brutal racist murder of George Floyd, with the shocking mobilisations in the United States, in the metropolitan city of capitalism, which is expanding rapidly around the world. This is a global upsurge against racial discrimination involving movements of all kinds of discrimination and inequality. We send from this Chamber, the temple of democracy, warmly vague greetings to the rebels, and at the same time we remember and honor our own dead who have fallen victim to racist violence, far-right intolerance and murderous police repression. Floyd, Physsa, Lucman, Gregoropoulos, Julian, Kaltezas and so many others are the dead who have in their lives watered the tree of democracy, dignity and humanity. We are proud of the participation of our country and especially of youth in the mobilisation of millions of people around the planet. In the afternoon, when we are going to fight not to pass this bill, whose provisions are perpetuated by a kind of social war against the great majority of the new generation, and by logic that are abducted to a specific feature of apartheid discrimination and inequality, thousands of children of the lower classes will protest with a slogan "no peace without justice" in Greece, Europe, the United States, the world as a whole. You see, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic that many saw as the great opportunity to establish the biopolitical fear everywhere, the control of the bodies and consciences of people and to lead to social development back to the undemocratic categorisation of governance by unscrupulous authoritarian powers and closed circuits of'specialists', with privileged relations with the elites of wealth and traditional politics, finally finds obstacles. The planet wants to breathe and not crush the burden of capitalist barbarism, the climate crisis, the new disastrous social cohesion and social state forms of distance work, with the teleworker depriving them of basic labour rights and 24 hours a day at the disposal of the employer. Societies realise what it means, for example, in America, for the 40 million unemployed, a billion-dollar dragon to increase its wealth by $500 billion in the pandemic. Really, Mrs. Keramos, where are the children of thousands of recognised refugees to go to school, where Mr. Metarakis flies outside the camps and the apartments? These are our John Floyd, gentlemen of the New Democracy, with the boot of your ministers every day on their neck. Let them breathe. As soon as you withdraw your decisions to the refugee that lipsize the lives of thousands of innocent people and are condemned by international and European institutions, even for corruption, on the occasion of overcompensations, but also secret funds and sluggish recruitments to the Ministry of Mr. Metarakis. Do you read it in "KATHMERINI" or not? Ladies and gentlemen, these references to global tensions and inequalities, when we talk about education today, are important. They have and provide, because especially in the field of education, neoliberalism has chosen to embody as a natural development the perpetuation of inequality and to create the market school, with students in the role of customers, as the current Prime Minister said. He was the same to say that inequality is a natural phenomenon. He had said attributes Mr Mitsotakis "I do not have any illusions about an unequal society". This is contrary to human nature and those who have attempted it have finally destroyed democracy and individual rights. In education and the future of the new generation, different political plans conflict. Exclusion or inclusion? Improving inequalities through education or the school of equality and quality of life? Excellent schools for all or schools for supposed aristocrats? Competition or collaborativeness? A state-of-the-art model or democratic school that prepares conscious and responsible citizens? We will see all these embodiments then on the arrangements of the bill with the alias: 'Enlargement of Schools and other provisions'. Before going through the substance, I would like to make a special reference to an important act of the SYRIZA government. It was just five years ago, on June 8, 2015, published by the FEK with the signature of Tasos Kourakis, then Deputy Minister of Education, who restored to the training of the two thousand seven hundred teachers of PAH who were found available for dismissal in 2013 by Mr. Arvanitopoulos and Mr.Mitsotakis, Minister at the time of the Administrative Reformation, one of the brightest moments of SYRIZA, one of the most embarrassing pages for the New Democracy's resignation and Mr.Mitsotakis personally. I shall submit this decision for the minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, no reform of education can take place without dialogue between the political parties and consensus with teachers. The Minister of Education avoids both. It also leaves unanswered questions from SYRIZA and the opposition parties, a sample of what Parliament despises. It has degraded the functioning of the Parliament's Committee on Morphic Affairs in the consultation on this bill. There were even thousands of negative comments, but the Minister ignored them, apart from one of the parents of the model schools. Minister of Education in quarantine from society, parties, the educational world. Minister of private colleges, magistrates, magistrates and ecclesiastical agents. And lately, Minister of Cameras and hundreds of thousands of absenteeisms off, but licensed from schoolchildren, especially in secondary education. Dissolve the school for the sake of a directed return to normality. Really, Mrs. Kerameus, when will you answer the information written in your friendly press that you were against closing schools in March with the quarantine? Do you confirm or deny it? Why, so far, so many days, haven't you disproved it? You owe a responsible placement to the parents who fought and struggling. Minister and protector of the American company 'CISCO', to whom Mrs Kerameos handed over the so-called'modern distance education'. Unfortunately, it did not take into account the risk of personal data, with the Ministry's digital portraits wide open to any possible intruder. Did you read the announcement from the general meeting of the Presidents of OLEME, received the day before yesterday? Read it and you will understand exactly what you have done. You've probably seen the advertising campaign in your ministry. There is a commercial advertising campaign within the Ministry of Education's website that includes the direct award of "Learning at home". I shall submit these two figures for both this campaign and for the decision of the Presidents of the OMEs. With all this prehistoric history, the Minister brings in the midst of a pandemic and alarming outbreak of cases in the last 50 days her bill with naked arguments. He forgets the great majority of children and deals with a few. She forgets the ninety thousand special treatment children - talk to the bill! - The hundred thousand technical education children - talk to the bill! - The hundreds of thousands of children of thousands of school units. It only deals with a small part of education: the standards, experimental and foreign-language programmes of universities. It was a mountain, and it was a muscle. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is based on authoritarianism at the expense of teachers and students. It is recommended that anachronisation and dangerous regression be recalibrated to the decontamination. The Scientific Committee of the Parliament raises the question of personal data, while it is noted that the recording of the conduct creates stigmatisation conditions for graduates in the bicentennial. The conduct is not erased by the dismissals, where contrary to the criminal record. The conduct characterizes a child’s school life and is unreasonable to accompany him throughout his life as an adult. The graduation is a degree to find a job. It's obvious that this is a scandalous, provocative arrangement. Which experts asked you for? Do you not know that this arrangement will be abolished in the Council of State? Have you asked the opinion of the Privacy Authority? Don't you care what happens after two or three years? You fight to impress an extreme conservative electorate. Be careful, because with this attitude you have, not just worldly, but merciful political behaviour. PASA: Remove the racist device, with which you threw 40% of students out, who were over seventeen years old. Are you going to bring her back? The aim of this provision was to strengthen the private IEKs, the vouchers to private individuals, such as the scoils and the solicitors. Latin versus Sociology. We understand the value of classical studies and the teaching of Latin, but in a modern and unprecedented way. Their knowledge is necessary for children who want to follow philosophy, history, archaeology. That's why they were always taught and taught in high school. Their knowledge of all children is essential. That is why this lesson is a lesson in general education in education. Latin, however, does not concern all children in the theoretical direction. Children who want to study other theoretical sciences, International Studies, Sociology, Psychology, must be taught and studied in the Faculty of Sociology and not in Latin. The "war" given in favour of Latin and anti-Society is symbolic. It is a message from the dark past and it reminds the ghosts who had opposed half a century ago in the educational reform of Papanoutsos. Also, proceed, as I am told, to abolish other books and social sciences in high school, such as the book concerning the Modern World. So modern! One minister said that sociology is a left course and Latin-right lesson. Well, that's bullshit. If Panagiotis Kanellepoulou heard it, the first university teacher of Sociology in Greece would say to him: "Adoni, what are you saying?" But he got away with it. Who recommended that you break down the single type of full-day kindergartens established by SYRIZA, putting English emblems into the program, which led all kinds of nursery schools, but also the twenty-eight presidents of education departments of the country to criticise you for schooling in kindergarten, which creates most of what learning and functional problems, since you show to ignore the large number of children who do not have a native language, but the children with learning difficulties that the last one of these ages is learning English? Your interest in foreign-language education was clearly reflected in the kindergartens of the Thracian minority, where, by subtracting to nationalist pressure, you abolished the successful institution of kindergartens with assistants who know the Turkish and the polar language as established by SYRIZA. You have provided a table from the “EURIBAN” for fourteen countries that have established a foreign language teaching, not necessarily English. Small ages, however, include all six years. Read the painting better. You have, however, concealed the explanation in a table of "EERIDIC", page 99 of the report, which states that most of the fourteen countries are taught in the oldest children of six years, corresponding to our first grade. In another six-year-olds it is kindergarten in the European Union. To us, six years old is the first grade. Madam Minister, listen to me. I am the Minister of Education who established English in the first grade. I heard the experts. I didn't do my "head". And I have heard the objections made by Members of the New Democracy in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media. Among them was - from New Democracy was Mrs Giannakou, who objected to English in the first grade, documented. I heard the opinion of the experts, who said that "it goes on in the first grade, not below". And I think you should listen to them, at least if you think they have any value. Because on the subject of pandemic, from what we understand, you didn't hear them. You got the opinion of closing down the schools. Through which dialogue with what bodies do you regulate to increase the number of pupils in kindergarten and primary schools to twenty-five of twenty-two, which SYRIZA had started to introduce? And what does minimum number twenty mean to form part? Have you, in fact, calculated the consequences of the number of children in the rooms? What educational goals serve the possible depletion of young children from their school? At this point we note with satisfaction that you maintain almost the single type of primary school in SYRIZA, which, when SYRIZA introduced it in 2016, with me Minister, you attacked us by Mr. Mitsotakis, prophesizing at the beginning of May 2016 the end of the full-day school and the morning zone. You've been fabulously disproved! In fact, now that you have opened the primary education, without all day and morning, I would like to warn you not to even pass your mind undermining them from next September. In high school you raise the courses from four to seven, thus reducing the length of the school year, which SYRIZA had increased. What is the point, too, rather than the relocators giving the lesson in which they failed in June and after being given the necessary reinforcement of the teaching that SYRIZA brought back, to be referred back in September, apparently thanks to the friendly instructional powers? In high school you bring back the notorious topic bank, which, when applied together with other unfavourable arrangements, partly restored the school failure from 4% to 23%. Apparently, that's where you're targeting. This is why you establish it in all classes of high school, so that the child of the middle Greek family will be forced to attend, at least from the First High School, and to drive, through the class barriers you raise, a large part of the failures in private training structures. Here are the discriminations and inequality, which we have already spoken about, that they perpetuate your choices in education. All the philosophies about'sound of effort' are to hide these social inequalities. Ladies and gentlemen, we come to the questions that arise about the 'early diffusion' of this bill, which is to extend the institution of the model schools. SYRIZA, despite the fact that the Government is completely intervening in the functioning of the experimental schools, similar to the standards, especially in the evaluation arm, is in principle in favour of extending the experimental schools and introducing a random sample of pupils into them so that it has a meaning and a pedagogical dimension, a situation, experimentation and dissemination in all schools of the new methods and good practices. Experimental activities should be promoted and shared common practices and initiatives with a group of schools, with similar social and learning features as far as possible. Experimentals, not pseudonyms. Standards are a completely different case, products of the deep and distorting neoliberal concept of "excellence" which the children of economic and political elites deserve, including the upper layers of the middle class. Leave the Peristeri theory and others you're talking about. These are'shocks in the eyes again'. In this perception, education is nothing but a mechanism for the reproduction of elites and an investment in charismatic children and not a system which is primarily structured on the projections of modernity, with the aim of eliminating general discrimination and alleviating social inequalities within school, so that, from the same point of view, children of different social strata can realize their dreams. Innovativeness therefore prejudges social mobility, which, especially in Greece, was a central element of an informal social contract and which enabled children of rural, working and middle-sized families to study and rise socially. Today, on the background of the crisis and an extremely aggressive and predatory Turbo-capitalism, these social stables are being put into question and questioned. Ideas such as insurmountable competition, entrepreneurship, private capital abuse, invasion of capital in sectors that were state or public property - up to water goes on to sell - are increasingly being promoted as panacea by the neo-right forces, in order to promote social davourism, which means the most powerful one goes on - the weaker disappears, in all areas and, of course, in education. The model school, then, is a school that gambles the thought - excellent students. It disguises all education from the good students and allows thousands of schools to operate with middle or less good pupils. In this way, the democratic mission of the neighborhood school is overthrown, but also the excellent ones enter an exterior stepping stone. I would remind you that the public school in the neighborhood is formed with sections on the basis of the alphabetical classification of pupils and pupils and not on the basis of levels of competence and knowledge. This is now being abolished by the creation of three speed schools.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Philie, you need to finish this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, please for a little tolerance. I'll take time from my dentistry as well. Let us see, then, in the United States that led to such a choice. Distinguished teachers point to the fact that the beginning of social conflicts is within schools, where the educational separation in good schools of the rich layers and in undergraduated schools of African and other minorities, but also of white, has created a racist and social conflict. We have no problem in the sense of excellence, but it is clear that we want excellence for all schools. All schools become perfect. We are fighting for inclusive excellence, and that is why we are reflecting our objection, a radical objection, to the bill you are bringing. We do not believe in the model schools of insurmountable competition, the continuous extermination of assessments. In experimental models you are setting up multiple evaluations of educational staff, in fact you are introducing the punishing assessment, which you will in future transfer to the whole education, as you have tried to do in the years of your administration with tragic results. Ladies and gentlemen, unlike the school that Mrs Kerameos wants, which is a school that is cheap for the state, expensive for the family, punishable for the educational, extermination of children and ultimately a competitive market, we want a school of democratic and not authoritarian, collaborative, and not competitive, inclusive and not separating, quality and equality school. We proved it with our government policy as SYRIZA. I do not want to go into detail. We have many achievements within difficult monumental times, and today when we meet we show the same confidence in teachers, because without them there can be no change in school, in the teachers whom you are slandering and attacking the bogeyman of a punishing evaluation. They are the ones with whom you did not have a dialogue and who today have strikes, mobilisations and demonstrations outside the House. Is that how you're going to reform education? I am sorry, but that is not what reform is called. This is called dissolution and deregulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Wednesday, 10 June 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 775/5-6-2020, Question by Evia MP, New Democracy Mr Simeon (Simu) Kedicoglou, Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: ‘Expansion of a natural gas network in Northern Evia’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. - The Question by Mr Christos Spirtzis, Member of Parliament, of the East Attica, of the Radical Left, Mr. Christos Spirtzis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The function of the Centre for Health, Rehabilitation and Rehabilitation of Kerate". 3. The Question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Stylianos Petsas, on "Support for television stations and media in the region". 4. The Question No 763/1-6-2020 by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: 'New cases of an unacceptable diversion of police violence'. B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 792-6-2020 The question by the First Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the West Attica of the New Democracy Mr Athanasios Bourras to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Extension of the declaration of the Municipal Unit of the Municipality of Elefsina in an emergency." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 783/5-6-2020 The question by MP MEP I Athens of Mera25 Mr Angeliki Adamopoulos to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "Direct award of a 32,000,000 euro to Marketing Greece". 3. The question by No. 784/5-6-2020 Current question by MP B2' Western Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Digital Governance, on "Direct removal of an antenna of mobile telephony at the border of the municipalities of Peristeri and Ilio". 4. The question under number 786-6-2020 was raised by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Re-start the operation of a child-surgery intensive in the hospital of Agia Sophia". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 5185-26-320 Question by the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition Mr.Nectarios Santorini to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Directly the need to strengthen the health structures of the islands to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic.” So tomorrow, there will be nine topical questions. The reason is, now, the special speaker of the Change Movement, Ms. Hara Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. Madam Minister, Minister, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, ten months will wait for the Greek society to unfold the educational reform policy that you promised. You started dynamically, with the university asylum, which SYRIZA's ideals and inability were able to do emblematics and offered you free visibility and advertising last August. From there on, deafening silence in Parliament, with the exception of the private college legislative initiative, and even the recognized television stars in the media. Then came the coroner. Things became difficult for the Ministry of Education that ran and was not enough. But you're stable: televisions, radios, social media. So, in the midst of a pandemic, the need to submit a draft law was chosen, but unfortunately it does not respond to the needs of the pandemic, unless you think that you have covered them with WNOs and live streaming in the classroom, which has never worked. It does not respond to the needs of modern school dealing with the bill you submitted. It was therefore neither the right time nor the right way to submit and discuss a very important bill that had a thousand comments in the first 24 hours when it entered the consultation and had almost fifteen thousand in total. They were only striving as evidence of adequacy of the Ministry's leadership towards an entirely specific recipient. Madam Minister, your position has borne a heavy burden, as in the last fifteen years, ministers who have left their seal with reforms - leaps to their time. A certain stress is perfectly understandable, but not so much so that your primary obligation is to legislate on the basis of not the temporary rescue of your personal image, but the best service of the long-term needs of the entire generation of tomorrow's citizens in this country. The question of education policy is not a matter of a minister or a party. It is about the future of the new generation, about the future of the country itself. Either way, you were anxiously looking for what's going to get you out front. Something emblematic. A reform. And you wanted it now, you wanted it quickly, despising any overturns that COVID imposed -19 imposed on the priorities hierarchy. The educational reform, then, we call it, is here. He's been looking through the cabinet drawers since 2010. We supported it, supported it, embraced it, voted for 256 Members in this Chamber in September 2010. There are too many Members here who have thrown it right the next day. So here's Rhodes. Do you dare? I'm asking you again. That's a good election declaration for the public school. The Greek society, however, expects the parties, expects us MPs to be consistent. How consistent are you with what you were saying in the election? What consistency is there in a legislative initiative without vision, serious planning, implementation of individual objectives, a substantial evaluation? From consultation to introduction to the Morphics Committee you have had time to make changes to this draft law and to propose solutions to issues that concern society. We've been waiting for answers. What are you gonna do in September? How will you deal with the actual opening up of schools at the beginning of the new school year? But that's not what I'm talking about. Instead of finding a step ahead of the problems, than our cosmogenic emerged that changed certainty and self-evidently, you chose the scorched one. Bring everything you had ready and fortified behind it. Let it be unprecedented, unprecedented, with no real dialogue. From nothing was, a bill with various interventions at all levels of education. The 15 days of citizens' consultation for such a wide bill are few, very few. The debate at four meetings in the committee is not enough. The equitable efforts of all of us are enough to deal with any issues. Who can the Ministry convince of his ambitious intentions? Our people say it very nicely: I don't hear what you're saying because they shout what you're doing! At the time that everyone was concerned about bringing school back to normality, how the educational process would be restored, what would be done with the examinations, what to deal with in September, the ministry was wrong. The Minister focused on daily 'Bungal' announcements that their blinding flash were disappearing at the moment of practical application. In the pandemic you did well, based on tested policies, on our own policies: in the digital school, in the digital programs, any training of teachers that SYRIZA took over with the individual and social responsibility of teachers, so the school endured. Heavy terms "distance asynchronous training" or others that seem to be pioneering, such as "relaying the class class" were invented or invented. Of course, words are easy, but the lack of serious preparation will be paid in full. Weaknesses, shortcomings, priority will not only be seen, but will remain as a negative sound. Today, as we take the next steps in the next day, with an intense anxiety about what will happen in September, if the coronary is to be rekindled, we should discuss a well-prepared, detailed plan of school organisation in the light of the new data presented by the pandemic. We should discuss what we have learned from the pilot application of technology capabilities and how they will become valuable tools of knowledge, the roadmap of the next phase that the Ministry should bring. We should talk about how digital school next school year will reach every student. We should discuss how to fill the gaps and weaknesses identified. How teachers and teachers will be trained in this new reality. And I'm really wondering: Do you have a tool in your hands called ERR. Has a file been filed for infrastructure in schools, for each teaching room, for laptop lending to any student who is unable to afford to have? Over the last time we applauded the donors, the Greek citizens who helped the sudden pandemic to rescue the educational process. Now, however, it is the time of the state that cannot be absent. And I ask you: what is the plan for rapid training seminars for teachers in the use of new technologies? Where is the Public Investment Program and the ESRB for projectors, for computer screens in each class? Where is the budget and the schedule of the Ministry of Education for all this? Instead, zero reflexes and lack of consciousness of priorities appear. Once again, for the temporary stunning and with an excess of extremist pride, the Ministry surprised everyone with a bill that was baptized "Strengthening School". Mountains, the different interventions at all levels of education. It runs the backbone of the educational process in the country without passing through. Was it the thing at this stage? Oh, no. Was it urgent to start next school year? Oh, no. Is it a thoroughly processed, ready proposal, exhaustive dialog product? Oh, no. Does it solve flammable issues of school start-up and the HEI in September? Oh, no. You had ten months to think and re-establish and operate the National Education Council, a tool in the hands of all previous Education Ministers - except SYRIZA - to have an organised institutional and documented dialogue. Did you do it? Oh, no. Minister, he is amazed that he is the one who wants to hide weaknesses and is raped because he is shaking criticism. The generalised suspicion in the bill and the subsequent reaction of involved actors, parties of opposition, much of the public opinion you built it yourself, with your own choices. Ladies and gentlemen, when one takes over a piece of legislation entitled 'Study Upgrade', what does one expect? If anything, he expects a proposal - a response to the needs of modern school. This, then, firstly, presupposes that we have agreed what these needs are, what we require of the school process. I'll read to you soon what the Constitution says. It says, therefore, that education must ensure moral, spiritual, professional and physical education of the Greeks - all Greeks - the development of national and religious consciousness and their spread to free and responsible citizens. So, in practical terms, what does that mean? It means that by finishing school, in the transition from minority to adulthood, we expect the young citizen to know, for example, what the basic cities and prefectures of his country are, to know that there are maritime borders, that the city is democratic and that there are basic functions. We expect him to know what power is, what the law is, what GDP is, what individual rights and obligations mean to the state, what the concept of national sovereignty is. We expect him to know practical arithmetic, such as how many millions the billion has. This and much more are necessary to understand very clearly what the country's public debt will say is 175% of GDP, what public creditworthiness means. We expect a new man to know geography, that Lesvos and Mytilini are the same island, that the cycle has 360 degrees and when we say we are making a 360 degree turn, we are at the same point. We expect it to have basic knowledge of Greek and European history, to be able to handle the language of global understanding, to have basic computer knowledge. The examples alone are not random. The country paid them dearly. To conclude basic education, in short, he must know how to think, reason, choose, judge and express his thoughts written and oral. The school has achieved its goal when every citizen has managed to inflame the will and has learned how to learn. The more self-evident all of this sounds, the more needed they remain for the Greek school. And that's what we're told in recent studies. Unfortunately, we have very low results at European level, in PISA 2014-2018, in IPPC 2019. We tell you that you expected to catch the thread from 2014 rather than continue with SYRIZA – ANEL with micro-improvements. You answered us, "May, there's a constant state." But along with it, Minister, there must also be consistency in the policies you have announced. That's why the Greek people voted for the change you were going to bring. The simultaneous fulfillment of both is never easy, almost impossible. The respective leadership of the Ministry of Education, in order to fundamentally do its work, start by answering what school wants, what weaknesses, distortions and gaps are faced with the existing educational process, what changes and priorities are, what individual objectives are to make the training process of all Greek students more effective, in what time, in what means and at what cost. And all that requires dialogue. Modernising a state and developing the country do not come out of the citizens, but with the participation of all citizens, inclusive. So I ask you this: does the bill we are debating today meet the above requirements? Unfortunately, no. His area may not leave any tiers of education intact, but the inner consistency of those who propose and call for the stress of his leadership to stand out. It's a bill that doesn't clarify what problem it's coming to solve. It does not explain how and how much the changes it proposes in the entire Greek school community will help. It does not connect the country's productive and social reconstruction with education. I found and want to read to you a very interesting passage from the speech of Eleftherios Venizelos in 1929, where she forsaken the liberal youth of Athens to react with all her soul in the antiquated and destructive sense that the only noble work is spiritual and warned that the day has come when educated workers and craftsmen who will use their minds in manual work will also occupy high social positions and will be much more useful in their society than free professionals and lawyers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So today, in 2020, in this draft law by the Ministry of Education on the upgrading of the school, technical and vocational education is missing, not because it works satisfactorily, not because all the problems have been solved, but simply because in the world of the limited excellence of the Minister of Education, students of the ESDP do not exist. It was named 'Strengthening the School'. What do its authors view as the greatest innovations? Indication of the conduct in the dismissals and the four-day miscarriage, measures, you know, zero pedagogical value and questionable constitutionality. I urge you to also see the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which says it clearly. Soon you will bring back the bracelet, apron and the tuxism provisions. There's nothing left, Minister! The replacement of sociology with Latin you made it "alternary rose". Setting up as a basis for promotion the "twelfth" from every class, which everyone says will increase the guidance of the teachers to avoid parental discontent and end up with students who do not "true" and thus all happy. Course Recipes: The other major innovation in the curriculum to meet parental expectations, aiming at a state target for a modern school. I don't want to talk about foreign languages. We created these, they had started working, and now you're blocking them too. Again, I would refer you to the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which tells you to pay attention to Union law. How much this has to do with the reform of school I leave it for investigation by this House. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the new in education will not come by aggregating cognitive objects and stacks of new manuals. Building knowledge, developing skills, shaping positive attitudes, this is the modern content of the school. At the time of the fourth industrial revolution, all the international experience shows elsewhere where the Minister looks. It shows in targeted curriculum programs, multiple sources of learning, real-day school, educational autonomy of school units, continuing education of educational and vocational development incentives, a school of modern, clear and fair rules for everyone, demanding knowledge, as well as the time when we are living, a public school that brings young people into society, integrated citizens with qualifications, mobilizes and is addressed to everyone, the excellent, medium, at the bottom of the mediterranean, to make it better, capable of living a decent and interesting life, offering its advancement to society as a whole. This draft law instead of that, what does it propose? A school - a new version of SYRIZA government's poor school - ANEL from kindergarten and primary school. There is no single framework anywhere. You should have brought it back, Minister. It's wrong. You're talking about a full-time school, but a full-time school friend, not the one with the reformed program 8-2, 2-4. You are talking about a terrible change and all this is nothing but an hour of English in the first and second grades, which you are stealing from the environmental study.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u10	Mrs. Kefalidou, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u11	I need a minute, Mr President. Thanks for the tolerance. It is well known that with the abolition of the full day proposed and voted for by SYRIZA have been lost five hours a week. So these gave innovations time too. You don't bring it back. You're cheating on the citizens with a high level of skill labs. You're forcing them as innovations. So all of this - you know, but I've been telling you again - has been in force since 1997. They have legislated with Law 2525 and are the flexible area and the priority educational areas under Minister Arsenis and then the new school of Diamantopoulou in 2011. In high school you do not provide computer and English certification and there is no change in content, in teaching methodology, in resetting the professional orientation. Technical and vocational education is completely absent in high school. References can be made only in the general school and in the introductory form. There is no overall proposal for lyric education and its connection to the country's social and productive needs. A school where verbal reference to terms such as the themes bank and the national dismissal has replaced the basic conditions for changing timelines and timelines.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u12	Mrs. Kefalidou, you have to shut down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u13	A school that is unable to protect the educational character of high school, where special education is not available, minority and migration education policy, where there is no overall evaluation policy, a school without supervision, guidance and training structures, without an overall proposal on how teachers will be trained. Do you have a plan for this? Do you have a proposal for training structures? A school that doesn't want to recruit teachers through ASEP. It abolishes them, as does Mr Gavroglou - and a school that extends the term of office for the third consecutive time of training directors, finally a school that continues with the "free" of SYRIZA's policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u14	Mrs. Kefalidou, please. Hang up now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u15	Yeah. All you are proposing today is a school of dry, poor, anachronistic, inefficient and inefficient, a school that is the sure recipe for a new generation of free, semi-educated, dependent citizens, politicians and prime ministers of tomorrow. That is why, without any reservation, we are voting against this draft law. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u16	Mrs Kefalidou, please do not thank me or any other rapporteur, because you have heard that the list will be completed tonight. This is at the expense of colleagues, who have seven minutes each and not fifteen and who will speak at one o'clock at night.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u17	It's a big bill, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u18	It's big, but that's the Rules of Procedure. Let's show a tolerance, but this is where we went in six more minutes. The special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in difficult times but also hopeful times. The fight of the American people there in the metropolitan city of capitalism and the solidarity that this struggle finds throughout the world, a struggle now for the most basic civil liberties, a fight against racism and state violence, in a conclusion only leads: whoever its manager, capitalism, will say poverty, say social inequality, say racism, say brutal repression, say war. Capitalism will say "I can't breathe." That is the conclusion of the last few days and not only. I'm starting with the title of the bill. Alongside the falsification: "Elevation of the School," he says. A life of the bills on education for upgrading speak, but in practice they are making the opposite of the education of our people. They demolish the educational needs of the young people of the majority, displease their parents and shake the rights of teachers, leaving them helpless in their difficult work. The explanation is very simple: The more with such bills the school is adapted to serve the needs of a system that is more and more inhabited and reacted, the more the need and the dream of popular families to educate their children will be undermined and the work of teachers will be degraded. The current bill also obeys this rule, which throws more salt into the wound of education and the problems of its teachers. You see, his provisions have strong reactionary foundations. This bill of New Democracy stands firmly on the three main legislations passed by SYRIZA, which led to education even further away from people's needs. These are the Gavroglou regulations which open the way for the conversion of high school into a school, this is Law 4589/2019 and the new recruitment system, a real slaughterhouse of the rights of tens of thousands of assistant teachers, and of Law 4547/2018 on the so-called evaluation, which is forged by all governments as the panacea for all the wrongs of education. The laws of the SYRIZA are maintained by the New Democracy and of course function properly. The follow-up to anti-education policy is therefore given, and the direction of reactionary changes from kindergarten to university is stable regardless of any changes made to the 'three' of government power. The main provisions of this bill confirm this. It is now known, ladies and gentlemen, in the Greek family for years the shallowness, the unscientificity, the fragmentation, the confusion, the suffering that has caused school books from primary to high school to school. When, for example, in the sixth grade her books cultivate the Greek language through texts with the instructions for using a coffee maker, please, or an air conditioner and mathematics deepen to the fractions with the help of the pictures of a pizza - apparently the standards of healthy nutrition! - and when children practice multiplication - listen! - Calculating how many millions of dollars Bill Gates earn in one minute, in one hour, in one day, in one month and in one year, or when students get informed of the population of Earth from the CIA report, not the UN, say, when innocence and linguistic poverty are becoming more and more widespread in youth, when in short, the need for changes directly in the analytical programmes and books is now urgent, the government of this, of the New Democracy, as is the previous ones, is moving vice versa. After throwing an vague promise that he will see all this in the future, he has rushed over the basic subject of scientific knowledge, which can and must be properly taught at school. And what's he doing? It puts its full weight on skills for all compulsory education. And since ‘speaking it, critical thinking is not a simple skill like all others. The critical thought, Minister, belongs to the superior functions of the understanding and its cultivation is very complex. First of all, to talk a little about skills, a skill to integrate harmoniously into a person's personality and to consolidate itself as a permanent capacity for this man, it must be firmly founded in a broader way of thinking, and that only guarantees full knowledge. Rightness, you know, is basically a superficial process and only answers how something happens. But he doesn't answer why it's happening. The only reason why this is done is through knowledge of science, namely through the creation of a logical way of thinking, through knowledge of the cause-effect relationship, and all of course can be given to children by ratings according to their age. We see it today in the students. So much is being taught. But how much do they assimilate into the ocean of information where they are located? Only knowledge is the supply for it, otherwise every skill in time is lost and erased. We do not underestimate all the skills associated with the bill, several of which are socially useful. But are all children's estates to be made on the same terms? For robotics, STEM and new technologies are known to require infrastructure and equipment, and all of this costs very much and experience from the pandemic laptops is very bitter. But there is another side to the issue: the content of these skills. Will the necessary sexual discipline go hand in hand with conservative darkness, which raises a head again in such a superficial government approach, or is it going to be lost in the deadlocks of reactionary in-depth theories of the construction of the identity of the social sex? We, the JRC, say that this necessary sexual discipline really must have a scientific foundation and content. That is why the entire teaching package of skills, its content, must be central to the state's responsibility and care and not the various well-predictable institutions of the big-capitalists or different NGOs. As for the skill of youth entrepreneurship, to which all governments insist, but why are they insisting on encouraging the Greek Industrial Association? Of course not about how the children of the people's families will become the big selebritti businessmen, but about learning from their tender age how to put the interests of the business and their employer when they grow up for their own interests. But can we talk to children about entrepreneurship without telling them the most basic thing without telling them, that is, the truth of the greatest thing about how and by whom are all these goods and all this wealth of our society? That those who produce all wealth in every factory, in every business, in every service are not the capitalists and shareholders of the public limited companies, but are the workers and workers of the hand and mind, that is, the parents of the children and no one else - and this proved to be abundant at this time of pandemic - and that even though producers of this wealth neither do they nor their children have access to it, why are the few capitalists, the owners, the shareholders of these businesses and their inheritors of course not entirely absent from the production process? Now, let's go a little in English to kindergarten. The Minister, in response to the JRC's criticism of the impeccable introduction of English into kindergarten, said that infants are really "sponges" and therefore a foreign language can be taught in kindergarten. Really? Then why don't you put in kindergarten and preschool? Why don't you put on personal reproach? Why don't you put the time of the verbs? So you mean the skills in kindergarten, like a stubborn mimicism and a parrot? But the subject is not just what children are capable of learning, which they do memorize very easily and quickly. The question is what we want children to know in kindergarten. In short, what priorities are pre-school education according to science. These priorities are and must be the foundation stones of the treatment. The most critical of this kindergarten age is to cultivate children with a reasonable attitude toward the world, so that they do not become ballast afterward of various bourgeoisists. It is to cultivate a thinking methodology in children. It is necessary to educate children to gain that possibility of understanding the simplest relationships that exist around them in their natural and social environments, to grow, that is, within a reasonable context. And all that you know with ignorant activity - we don't say it, scientists call it -, dominant and exclusive activity of kindergarten children the game and only the game. Hence the absolute distinction between kindergarten and primary school. And anyway, if you feel so great and irresistible desire to strengthen English, my child, in school and in education, you can do so. You have another way, Minister. Take care, let's say, at last that state certificate of English language. Make sure that it is equitable - in practice, not in words - with the other certificates of foreign institutions. No, that is nothing else, but so that parents don't have to get rid of a Lower or a Proficiency. For evaluation now in education, for which so much noise is made by the OECD, by the European Union - a regular chord! - by BSE, governments, parties: New Democracy again found it ready, well-shaped by SYRIZA, who in 2018 passed the law on evaluation and contributed decisively, as his Minister himself said, to the formation of that necessary culture of evaluation. The New Democracy is now starting this assessment, implementing the SYRIZA law on substance. Here, you know, SYRIZA's allegations no longer pass that his own assessment, the allegedly unpunished for teachers and another of the New Democracy, since everyone can understand that the purpose of the evaluation is the one that defines its character and the purpose of the evaluation agrees with the New Democracy and SYRIZA and the Change Movement. They agree that the evaluation should be that basic tool for a school which is decentralised, differentiated and therefore categorised, willing to the wishes of the market and sensitive, with the doors open to business pedagogicals, with the appropriate flexibility of an undertaking in terms of its staff, hence the tens of thousands of alternates. Just so we don't get to talk about the market school. Combine this evaluation now and with the pan-ellanic-type examinations throughout high school based on the themes bank, turning the high school into a vastly exam arena and whoever lasts - literally - economically and psychologically, add the assessment of the learning results for both schools and teachers and what comes out? This is what comes out: If a school and a student have no good performance at the examinations based on this theme bank, then you will conclude that it is the teachers who are not working! And let them be the only ones holding the training up. But it will also be the parents of these children who do not care as much as their children should, and let them every day give their soul for them! Who's going to get oil? But, of course, you and your own educational policy, as well as all the governments, and let these governments and the barbaric system of exploitation of the great guilty of the educational poverty of the children of the people's families and the explosive shortages in education. Here, then, the people want to be careful not to pass their evaluation pharmacopoeia for medicine and swallow it and not to tolerate it in any way by the fingers of those responsible for the problems of schools, those who deceive the role of teachers, those who condemn education in adolescence and underfunding and send teachers to their sixty-seven years to take lessons in their grandchildren. Nor let this world thus pass the unacceptable in the pandemic increase in the permitted number of students per department. Yes, while we are shouting about crowding, we are increasing even slightly - it is also important - the number of pupils per department. They should note that the bill increases and the minimum number of pupils to create a section. Four years ago, there were enough seven children to become a preschool department. Mr. Friends took it to fourteen. New Democracy's coming up to this, it's going to be 15. To think that there will be toddlers who will be abundant from their neighborhood kindergarten and will be forced to go elsewhere, far further away from home, and toddlers and their parents. The largest stack of students, of course, means fewer recruitments - let us not forget - and that is the reason for the provision. It is about tens of thousands of teachers who not only all governments are holding them on a work hostage and constantly wandering, but where they are owed for their great offer everywhere, throughout the country, now they are also taking the ox! Openly threatening them with job exclusion for two and three years, if one of them for family reasons, for family reasons or for economic reasons finds itself unable to go where the Ministry sends him. And here, of course, this pre-emptive confession does not go unnoticed either - in fact it is about establishing - the educational gaps and the priority - it says - in covering them from the Ministry. First of all, it is unacceptable to classify the courses by the Ministry itself as a major and non-predominant, to prioritise the educational needs of children, children, general or special education. All children have equal rights in education and the State's obligation, in fact constitutional, are these rights to implement them. After all this - and by closing down, Mr President, and thank you very much for the tolerance - one understands the SYRIZA and the narrow margins he actually has to make a substantial opposition to the New Democracy for this bill, which of course makes use of its own laws. Because SYRIZA, you know, can characterise this bill as a backward and conservative, and it is, of course, one that supports it: only in his unacceptable indeed provisions for the conduct of students, the miscarriages, and sociology, and not all the other very serious, that brings with the degradation of the content of school knowledge, the education of high school, the class categorization of schools and pupils, the commercialisation of the end of the good of education. Yes, the bill is, of course, conservative and backward, but it is so because it breaks the cultural rights of our children, because it calls on parents to put their hand in the pocket, because it breaks down teachers' working rights, because it detests their pedagogical role. That is why the real opposition to this bill - and I am closing, Mr President - cannot be SYRIZA, but the thousands of protesters, who gather outside this House and across the country. Along with them and with all his soul is the JRC, which will, of course, submit after all this, as you can see, and a request for a roll-call vote at the beginning of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u20	Good. We shall proceed with Mrs Sophia - Iido Asmakopoulou from the Greek Solution. Here, you have the floor, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a common place that education should be a field of national understanding. This is an area that has been more troubled than anyone else. For us in the Greek Solution it is clear: education belongs to all Greeks. We must offer equal opportunities to our children. Our country needs an educational system that has this basic principle as its centre. In the long-term Greek school, many are tested, little doubling. This undermines public education, public schools, the public Greek university. Unfortunately, this draft law generally represents the pathogens of the past. The success of any educational reform depends on teachers. Monitoring of education and training has a key role to play in promoting the reform of our educational system. An appropriate number of teachers in the system are required in all courses, both in remote rural and island regions and in urban areas. As long as there are villages without schools, we can't talk about reform. The most sensitive area of public education, special education, is treated with the greatest depreciation. It has been on the margin for years. Year after year is downgrading. We finally need solutions directly and efficiently. It should be noted that the school population of special schools has increased in recent years. More detailed, the number of disabled children who studied in special schools in the school year 2017-2018 was, tens of thousands of eight hundred nine children. And the majority of them are children with serious disabilities, which are more exposed to social exclusion. In particular, the majority of these are pupils with mental disabilities 36.3%, autism 29.9% and multiple disabilities 13.7%. There is a direct need to strengthen the educational staff who serves in all the structures of special education. The same direct increase must also be made in the funds allocated to all education services for disabled and special educational needs pupils. Special treatment depends on European Union funding, and that is a shame. Education is an unnecessarily public asset. It belongs to all Greeks and Greek women with equal right of access. But its funding is low. Public spending on education is lower than in most European Union countries. We are not saying this, but the elements of the latest European Union education and training monitoring report. In order to be able to talk about growth, upgrading, social state, we need to spend on education. There is currently no integrated research-based approach to the professionalisation of teachers and the development of school. Greek schools are lagging behind in infrastructure and modern equipment. These deficiencies have emerged in the midst of the pandemic and the problems created in the telecoms process. The educational mechanism needs to be adapted to the needs of today's society. In this effort, however, he is confronted with intrinsic problems that make him dysfunctional. We must ensure that our children have a Greek-centered education, and that is a priority for us. Do you believe that you ensure it by constantly identifying in the elementary teaching of history and religion? Orthodoxism is part of our collective consciousness. You forget about it and you tried to wipe it out of the school halls. It is more necessary than ever that the new generations of Greek students should know their history and be aware of their Greek identity. We consider the introduction of sexual education to be unacceptable in small ages. And we cannot fail to stress our strong opposition to this. It's completely undisciplined. We believe that schoolwork should take place at school. On the contrary, you promote the opposite. We disagree with the increase of pupils in the departments and, indeed, a pandemic. So you're thinking of meeting the needs of education by reducing the departments and leaving thousands of substitutes to unemployment? We see at points in the bill, such as, for example, in Article 4(8), where there is favourable treatment for students who have studied for at least two full and continuous teaching years in foreign schools operating abroad. Who's going to testify how many years the illegal immigrant did at his country's school? And why should she be treated more favourably than the Greeks? This does not honor neither the educational system nor our country. We're here today and we're talking about upgrading school. Suffice it to mention that while students at primary school are also taught lessons in the so-called positive direction, such as Physics, Chemistry and mainly Mathematics, the course of Mathematics is absent from the courses to be considered for candidates of the educational schools during the pan-Hellenic exams. Shouldn't this candidate be checked for his knowledge in this class? Is that how you understand the concept of educational reform and the upgrading of school? It is our duty to form free and creative people who can make maximum use of their potential. It is at last necessary to establish the dissemination of good practice in public schools. With regard to standards and experimental schools in the proposed draft law in Article 11(1) and, secondly, Article 12(2)(c) and previous laws, Law 3966/2011 and Law 4610/2019, there is a reference to the dissemination of good practice in public schools. Experimental schools have been operating for ninety years. It would be reasonable, therefore, to have been inquiring into the dissemination of good practice in public schools and to assess the operation, at least in the last decade, since the establishment of their operating framework, n.3966/2011. They have become generalists and ambiguities only. We've located and located in this bill. On-the-spot surveys and interviews with training staff often note that the research innovatory school innovative actions defined as experimental are reduced in favour of a variety of educational programmes. At the level of the territory it is proposed that experimental schools be centres where educational research and innovation develops in direct connection with the educational policy of a State. This model has the advantage that new or diversified proposals can be considered and tested in the specific schools at a pilot research level and then in the event of positive results diffusion to other schools. This model is applicable in France. In the context of the priority education mentioned in regions with vulnerable social groups, a specific number of schools, which meets criteria set by the Ministry, are defined in order to test research educational interventions, with the aim of supporting pupils, research into innovative teaching, social support programmes and others. Obviously this is not the case in Greek reality. The creation of groups of excellence, creativity and innovation, to which students may participate and other public education schools, as provided for in Article 11(2)e, shall not be implemented. In practice, groups operate with schoolchildren who organise groups. As we pointed out in a previous debate, the only factor in the formation of the school population of pilot and experimental schools is parental expectations. The constant integration of pupils in standards and experimental schools, particularly from middle and upper social stratifications, is observed, so that social reality is not reflected. In particular, following the last-minute changes that seem to have become unjustified and roughly, the situation has become even worse. Throughout Attica there is only one experimental high school. For these reasons, it is proposed that research classes should be set up individually or between classes of a small network of schools on a specific research subject - a programme which refers to real social relations, educational needs and issues, with the aim of diffusing and discussing the results of the educational community, the EIT and the Ministry of Education. You say, in higher education, high school students who were distinguished in international scientific competitions will be enrolled. However, such a reward must be made under the condition that the distinguished person be introduced into a school relevant to that of his field of discrimination. We also disagree with the introduction of sanctions for candidates. They are teachers who are called upon to carry their families constantly and who serve education in particular zeal. It is unacceptable to punish themselves instead of punishing the state itself, which at last does not solve this chronic problem. The endless state of experimentation at Greek school and university continues. The distortions must be eliminated so that we can talk about socialism. Prolong the mandate of training staff without justification, without considering that new recruitments are needed and not extensions. We observe in many articles the provision of absolute authority to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs. The combinations in Article 70 lead to the partitioning of the administration of the institutions. We wonder how it is possible to enter such a thing. You're forgetting about the multiples and the threeteens. You do not incorporate them into the beneficiaries of the transfer. No motive to solve the demographic. You leave them on the margin instead of providing them with the maximum assistance. In foreignlanguage curricula, no reference is made to teaching languages. Will the Turkish language, the language of Skopje, also be included? No clarification. You are not telling us what will apply to professional rights, the level of study and academic rights. Neither the resources nor the staff that will be assigned to them are specified. Wait till we guess it or vote for what you're artificially hiding from us. You also provide for an accelerated procedure for granting residence permits for the purpose of study. Are we also talking about obtaining citizenship? We are living in a time of deep social crisis. The crisis in the schools reflects the wider social crisis. We need to review the fundamental principles of education and decide what we want to teach our children. Education of our children should be the result of a coordinated responsible educational policy. It is vital that the Greek education system finally realizes that we are in the 21st century. And that doesn't just mean familiarity with technology. It means that we need to focus on creativity, critical thinking, problem-solving, innovation, shared participation, communication and cooperation. The Greek education system has no ideal goals. Many important lessons are not taught in a fertile way. One is the solution: the school treats its students as separate personalities, as personalities, which must be cultivated so that one day they become full and integrated individuals, ready to create and help our society, our Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u22	Although a new colleague, absolutely consistent. We are closing with the representative from Mera25, Mrs Sophia Sakova. Then we will enter the speakers and then the first circle of speakers who are and, as I can see, a little alternating will take the floor, the Minister who will be gone for a while because he has a meeting with the Prime Minister, but the Ministry will be represented by the two Secretarys. And typically and essentially, the circle for the parliamentary representatives opens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the role we want school and education to play in society also defines our overall attitude to education. A responsible state is consciously organising a system of education that will ensure the balanced and complete development of the child's personality, but also of his skills and always on an inalienable condition of ensuring equal opportunities for all children. On the contrary, the liberal forgery for the inevitable inequality, which the Prime Minister himself has publicly supported, cannot be placed in schools. The establishment and operation of mechanisms to widen and exacerbate social differences cannot be made more accessible to education. This unprecedented distance of perception is the dominant in our political diversification. But, Minister, we have the institutional obligation to intervene in the parliamentary procedure, in every way trying to save at least what can be saved. Conservative perception of education according to the suggestions and needs of the famous markets has a specific content: Rejects the idea of broad mass education, creates "baskets" education, with separations from the most tender age. According to this perception, future employees need only one limited knowledge. For the simple worker there is enough writing, reading and a little arithmetic. For the tourism sector and for the "national profession" of the waiter, a level of contact with a foreign language also needs as much as is necessary for the daily and current consultation it needs. And then the system of other ratings is built. Technical education: a small step above which they are evaluated and entitled to exhaust their ambition, for example, children from Peristeri, as the Prime Minister gladly said, reflecting your perception of education. And the pyramid continues with the next steps of what is useful for employment, in a direction of constant skills, because the purpose is not broad education. The only aim is to incorporate the trainees in the production process. This is a 'declaration' of benefit. You don't want education, offering education and forming integrated personalities. You want education that produces useful components for the operation and reproduction of the system. And that's what people deserve to hope for in your schools. There is, of course, a parallel educational system. It is the system for elites and prepares the senior members of the future. The private elite schools, colleges for those who did not succeed in the public system, but have the financial capacity to study in this way. In fact, you guarantee them equality and you restore them to competition "by the back door", a system that ensures progress in the privileged financial capacity to which you offer every facility. Let's just say, your vision of education wants an educational system that works like the list in restaurants: you can get what you can pay if you're allowed to enter. But beyond that, what is the contents of the training process? The role of the school should not be confined to the sterile transmission of information to various isolated cognitive objects. If that were only, every discussion on education would end with the acceptance of some teaching programs and the control of the progress of pupils through examinations. Unfortunately, this conception gives rise to this bill. Social needs are strong and imperative and you are consciously moving back - I would say - from the demands of the times. You know very well that every law on education essentially defines the future of the country and its results are seen after 15 or twenty years at the very least. The educational perception that insists on the reproduction of the model of school success through the mechanical melting of fragmented information, which is even rewarded through the examination procedures, has failed miserably. I really don't think you're gonna see this. I conclude that you are, of course, looking at it, but that is exactly what you are trying to do. You want to accumulate a volume of cognitive information for the purpose only of memorizing and at the same time degrading the critical capacity and the ability of students. The bill is inspired by an obsolete political and educational perception and, if we want to be lit up, it is, in fact, an anti-educational concept. Let us begin by referring to the planned strengthening of the examination procedure. Educational intensification has a completely dubious effect, and it is definitely downgrading the educational role of the school. But you are aware of it and accept it, or even consciously choose it, that it will have a certain effect: the substantial deterioration of the school and the strengthening of the discipline, since it will intensify and increase the need for families to resort to schools and in particular courses. So you broaden social inequalities, since those who have the financial potential will be more effective in dealing with the burden of examination that you are introducing. If you really want to upgrade the school, why do you maintain and reproduce these obsolete models in education? The whole world, Minister - we have told you again - is considering the efficiency of the Scandinavian educational model, for example, in Finland where there are virtually no tests. We do not, of course, propose, as I have told you in committee, the immediate and complete abolition of the tests, but we cannot demonstrate the need to change the direction and content of education. And yet, you turn your back on the future. Resume the theme bank, which was implemented in 2014 and has been found to be a complete failure. The only result was the automatic increase in the turnover of care centres by 15%. You insist on this system, which subjugates education in the process of memorization. There's no other explanation. You want to expel critical competence, analytical and synthetic thinking from the educational process. And why is that? But precisely because you fear citizens with judgment, empathy and emotional intelligence. And you fear them, because you are well aware of the greedy future, which is reserved for them by your policy. So what do you suggest? The excellence of infinite immersion, the excellence of "pads", products of misconduct and the exacerbation of social differences. This perception of you has come back to other issues. Restore conduct in qualifications. There is no justification for this measure, except your anachronistic government intention to return to the glorious past decades until 1950 or even until the time of dictatorship. In the explanatory statement, you say completely unscientificly and unscientificly that this can allegedly be a pedagogical instrument. The repression through intimidation, a political method that has so far been applied to all areas of your policy, is also threateningly extended to young learners. It serves no purpose to stigmatize a student at the age of yet intransigent personality. A stigmatization that marginalizes him into school, but he will follow him all his life. This is a measure that will strengthen negative behaviour. It will also work unfairly against people who, because of their particularity, are under additional pressure in the school environment and are forced to defend themselves against it, perhaps in an uncontrolled manner. At the same time, you put on every teacher the role of a pediatrician's pediatrician's and daily juvenile's memory, without even a set of criteria and rules. Leave open the margins for any kind of arbitrary and abuse. Finally, we must admit that diversion of the student's behaviour necessarily involves a corresponding failure of the educational system. Therefore, it is not even moral for the state to transfer its responsibility to the person of the minor. A modern school has to face the causes of behaviour, have infrastructure and methodology and the psychosocial support of the student, but also of its environment. If you want to deal with the problems, please strengthen the presence of psychologists and social workers in education, as promised, Minister. That would really be an upgrade of school. The provisions on the promotion of the republican authorities at universities are also characteristic. You limit the body of selectors only to teachers (ordinary, deputies, assistant teachers and lecturers) and exclude all others who participate in the university community. In other words, students, the support of the educational process, as well as the administrative staff of the higher education institutions. This arrangement is another symptom of anachronistic idealism. There is no social reference, there is no need and there is no reasonable or plausible service, apart from the control and subjection of the university community. You are also proving this through the electoral process, which you are planning to do exclusively electronically. You know that you cannot guarantee the secrecy and transparency of the vote, made through personal passwords. However, you are supporting it. The regulation is unacceptable and we invite you to withdraw it. You know that PPC members are an easy target for exerting pressures, which is stronger in the major and powerful schools, such as medicine, legal, economic universities, etc., where dependencies are more powerful. It shall not be understood as a fair vote where each IPA member may vote with the possible presence and control of its vote by any third party concerned. You cannot claim that you do not know all of this. You confirm that you are seeking to control the vote and you are covering this unacceptable method by the communication pretext of allegedly modernising the procedure. For this reason, the title in the relevant chapter of the bill, which is ‘Rector of Rectoral Authorities’, is not random. You do not dare to describe your system as an election either. This political choice of yours is a complete anachronistic reversal to the democratic function of the HEIs and in future alters the very nature of the universities. I repeat, Minister, withdraw it. With such legislation, you can also confirm how you understand the functioning of parliamentary democracy. You want to practice your policy without consent, but without consent. That is why you also raise the every way to win self-responsibility in self-responsibility and an end in order to be able to legislate at the absolute will of a ruthless core of power. And yet, ladies and gentlemen of the government, education is the most important place, which requires democratic dialogue and understanding, not only in the cross-party, but in society itself. We see what the results of one-party inspirations are. What we have achieved does not satisfy anyone and does not respond to real social needs. We, Mera25, consider and believe that there is no one to argue that it is necessary to restore the national dialogue on education with direct social reference and participation. In this direction we are proposing the creation of a national education board with permanent and permanent function, which will draw up and propose to the House the necessary interventions. We are proposing the establishment of a Interparliamentary Council of Deputies and Elected Citizens for Education and Education. It could be made up of three hundred citizens, of which the percentage could be chosen by a draw among the active teachers, sharing at all levels, the next percentage being elected by a draw from the overall population and the other percentage being designated by the parliamentary parties according to their electoral power. All members will be with rolling two-year-olds. The CONCLUSION to operate and decide at regular quarterly thematic conferences. The Government, accepting the decisions of the EPC, will be able to put them to the vote in Parliament, if it agrees with them. And the statement suggests that it should be compulsory and that if the same decision is repeated by the IPCC after two years, a qualified majority should be required to reject the piece of legislation. It is a proposal, Minister, which expresses our concern about national understanding and social participation. Because we have no reason to fear society or dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, education in our country has been a time-consuming field of exercises and tests. Whoever took over the Ministry of Education chose to leave his mark with a, always salvage and long-term reform. Other generations of pupils became experimental animals and Greek families could not plan anything in the face of the state's inconsistencies. This bill with the false title 'Strengthening the School' is not just a ministerial reform. It expresses the will of the conservative party to reinstate the implementation of a specific anti-educational policy, and I would say anachronistic, momentum. Madam Minister, I wish we could ask you to review this bill as a whole. It doesn't make any sense. It is obvious that you are as government-sponsored ideas, but also of a specific political perception that has nothing to offer toward the real upgrading of school. The bill doesn't reform and upgrade anything. It simply complements the unarmed framework of the Greek educational system, reproducing its dead ends with fragmentary and not even corrective arrangements. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is clear that in principle we are voting against the bill and we reserve our position on its more specific regulations in the debate in detail, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Sacorafa. Ladies and gentlemen, I read the two four colleagues who will speak and then probably take the floor, as the Minister said. It is Mrs. Makre from New Democracy, Mr. Mamulakis from SYRIZA, Mr. Himaras from New Democracy, Mr. Konstantopoulos from the Change Movement, Mr. Kelles from New Democracy, Mr. Papaliou from SYRIZA, Mr. Yiannis Loverdos from New Democracy and Mr. Syntakis from the Communist Party of Greece. Mrs. Macrie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I have chosen to begin today's position on the new draft law on the upgrading of the school and fully supports its title, with an inspiring essence of the emblematic peacekeeper and visionary African-American leader, Martin Luther King, who is more than ever current. I carry: "The function of education is to teach someone to think intensely and to think critically. Intelligence, combined with character, is the purpose of education." This waste contains a reasonable, accurate and pluralistic approach to education, the formation of people with a quality of life, their enthusiasm and the promotion of their intellectual virtues, all the result of a group effort of socialism, inextricably interconnected and interconnected with political society, with the ultimate aim of collective blissment and prosperity. I have come up with this symbolic introduction to demonstrate that the moments we are experiencing today, such as the gigantic economic crisis, which is at least a decade away from the globe and requires more armored people, with experiences and skills, the treatment of the coronary pandemic, which is based on the forgotten reflexes of social empathy and the resurgence of social solidarity, the brutal murder of George Floyd, exotic and unacceptable human rights violations, in 2020, which sparked justified global anger, all these pose a serious problem to modern societies, to investigate and discuss, an issue which is no more than education and to our reform of the educational process. Requirements are now more urgent than ever and the moments of maturity for change. We are living, ladies and gentlemen, at a time of dynamic and rapid technological and social change, where innovation is the driving force for learning new methods and for implementing wider changes. At the same time, it is seen as a challenge in many areas of economic life, creating important organisational and productive arrangements. The modern school, not the conservative and outdated school, but the school without fear and prejudice, the needs, challenges and opportunities of our time, is perhaps the most effective tool that can have a society to encourage and enhance social mobility, that is to say, to enable children and groups, with common features, from every level of social stratification, to have access to essential opportunities and to claim their dreams as an antidote to very existing inequality and injustice. In addition, modern school should primarily inspire, provide competence for knowledge, promote critical thinking, develop mental and emotional function, improve synthetic skills, expand spiritually and promote modern skills. It should also reward diligence and hard work, as well as responsibility and initiatives, an active attitude to life, and finally encourage the appetite for promotion and discrimination. This is also the vision of the New Democracy, this is the vision of Mr. Mitsotakis, already in 2018, when we were in the military opposition. In this vision of flesh and bone was called upon to give, with exceptional diligence, methodicity and success, with very good political conduct, Niki Kerameou and the present Deputys. The need for the active reform and improvement of the educational process was put forward in the face of the Greek people and voted in favour. This commitment, in all its aspects, such as the provisions of the draft law and the proposed arrangements, has been made in the past months as a government strategy and policy in public and extensive, fruitful and interesting consultation, electronically and with the relevant bodies, with absolute transparency. The new bill runs the backbone of education from the bottom up, from the kindergarten to the university, introducing innovative approaches and international best practices, with realistic design, without overturns and surprises. The pillars of this bill are very innovative, but also the arrangements that cure pathogens of the past. In my position at the meeting of the Standing Committee on Formatography I preferred to refer to some of the bold arrangements, such as the replacement of the Sociology course from Latin and the reintroduction of the designation of conduct. Today, in plenary, I will stand and underline three innovative pillars, each representative of each educational level, which, in my opinion, fully address the requirement to synchronise with the needs and trends of the time. First pillar, the pilot introduction of infants' employment with English through creative activities, in an absolute annexation and interconnection with the school's available and pedagogical nature. I know I'll be taken with the scouts, too, but it's okay. The aim of the project is to broaden the linguistic perception of children, as during pre-school age the foundations of learning, thinking, all mental processes, even that of learning a foreign language, are laid down. Second pillar, in secondary education, is the introduction of the logic of the "contra" course, history of the positive direction and mathematics in the theoretical direction. I'm talking about High School III. In order to achieve the objective of greater spiritual openness and more global culture, pupils are to be given a challenge. Third pillar, the promotion of the extroversion of the Greek HEIs, either through the autonomous establishment of foreign-language programmes or through their cooperation with abroad. In addition, common curricula, double study programs between Greek and foreign universities, as well as summer programs, are being established to attract students from around the world and to promote the scientific and the value of Greek universities. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's bet on this bill, following its vote, is not just to convince the most skeptic and reluctant - I have doubts about the ideological ones - but to convince them that education, education reform is necessary and imperative. The question is now to record in the OECD and PISA education reports the ranking of the students of Greek schools at the highest levels of engraving, satisfying the society's consistent and modern demand for competitiveness and prosperity. It is about having excellence as a destination and aim, because our ideology does not serve the downward equation, because it is deeply democratic for those who can and want to be excelled. That is why many others warmly congratulate the political leadership for this legislative initiative, which I shall of course vote for. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u26	Me too, Mrs. MacKarie, you were absolutely consistent. Mr Charalambos (March) has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Alexandros Papanastassiou, Panagiotis Kanellopoulos, George Papandreou and of course Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the current Prime Minister: These are the sociologists who have taken over the helms of our country, serving as Prime Ministers, people who have written and still write pages in our country's history and, of course, people who would find it difficult to characterize them as communists, as the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, Mr.Adonis Georgiadis, has said, "Sociology will make children left". Nor was Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, left, as Mr. Vorides always suggests in his statements about those studying social sciences. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no 'right' and 'left' sciences. Your ideological divisions lead you to your unacceptable legislation, among them today. You're replacing the sociology class with this Latin for admission to university. In other words, students who want to take tests to introduce them into social science schools should be examined in unrelated Latin. But the reasons you fly out of Sociology being examined are obvious and have to do more with your ideas and negativeities in scientific disciplines contributing to the birth and dissemination of progressive ideas. And of course, sociology is such a science, as it opens to students the chapter of Enlightenment. You are reversing the critical thought, you do not want every new and progressive one. We do not, of course, underestimate the importance of Latin, but we condemn the exclusion of sociology from the courses in question. With the bill, Mrs Keramos is actually closing the eye on paradoxes and private care centres, because she deepens public education, and you have proved this through the battle you have given to the SYRIZA government to abolish Article 16 of the Constitution, which ensured free, public education for all. And since you did not succeed as soon as you became government a few months ago, you spent the unacceptable provision, which equates the graduate degrees of higher education institutions with those of the IEK and of course other private schools. Now what are you doing? I quote: Increase of the courses in high school from four to seven, in the second grade from six to seven, in the third grade from four to five. I mean, test again. Therefore, once again caregivers. Increase the necessary average for attendance in high school. Improved training, which means that there is still an increase in paradoxes. And of course, reintroduce the theme bank, the Arvanitopoulou regulation, whose negative results have been recorded in detail in the previous years. So to speak the numbers, which are often relentless - Mathematics - I just remind you that in the 2013-2014 school year 23% of the students were re-tested. Where was that failure leading? In paramedics and in schools, even in school leakage. You have never concealed that you are facing key areas for social cohesion, such as health and education, with class-based bias. You have proved an unreserved worship for every process that refers to competition and excellence, as you of course understand it. These intentions are also evident in your decision to increase the number of pupils per class from twenty-two to twenty-five, which will also result in the reduction of the recruitment of assistant teachers and is a transverse example of imprinting in the numbers of the deterioration of our education. No chance your bill has been received with open arms by the school owners and the owners of the great care centers. Because the school you dream about is a school that's competitive for students, a punishment for teachers and expensive for parents. And to close, today's bill is conservative and backward. Instead of taking us even one step forward, it takes us a lot of steps back. One more proof is that you are unearthing from the time of history the anachronistic recording of the conduct in the dismissals, a measure of repressive character and social stigma. Anyone who does not meet your criteria for excellence should always be stigmatized. You are even ignoring the opinion of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which expressly states that the resetting of the plea in dismissals raises the question of the breach of personal data. You talk about upgrading education, restoring anachronistic provisions, which only aim at policing and cultivating a diffuse sense of fear. If you want to improve the conduct of children in schools, this is certainly not by punishing methods, but by recruiting psychologists and social workers. In that you would have us on your side today, you would have guaranteed political consensus. But this daring decision for you poses a very great risk: To develop critical thought, that is, the future adult citizens, who will be called for the rest of their lives in the polls. And that is certainly not what you want. In a favorite film that certainly - I'm sure - many of you in this Chamber have seen in the 'Circle of lost poets', Robin Williams is playing an enlightened and unconscious teacher, who teaches the students of a deeply conservative school that poetry is not only in books. There's life, too. So we need enlightened teachers to trust our children and, of course, their future. Above all, however, we need a sound and progressive public education system that can embrace all students, bend on their problems, face their potential difficulties and particularities, strengthen their skills and, above all, their criticism, open up prospects for mastered students and constitute a solid institution of equality and democracy. Such a school dreams the Left for our children. The murder of George Floyd in the United States is another transcript that sociology should be taught in schools. Our children must acquire knowledge and education so that in future they can avoid such incidents, which certainly do not honor us. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u28	Me too, Mr. Mamulaki. You didn't even run out of time. Mr Themistoklis Himaras of Athanasios has the floor. The reference to the father's name is because he's an old colleague and a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will continue to speak from this step to the recent pandemic. So I will say that this recent pandemic has shown that Greece is changing, the Greek people are changing, the political system is being strengthened, the political system recovers its lost credibility, the citizens trust the state. In Greece 2020 politicians serve the truth and adopt the absolute consistency of words and works. Why do I quote these views at the beginning of my position? But why today the government legislates on the basis of its programme announcements, faithfully implements the policies that Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis put in dialogue in November 2018, when the full programme of the New Democracy for education was presented, when the New Democracy was in the military opposition. "I see the training as a central vehicle for the development of the country. It is the machine that will move the economy, the social elevator that will allow our children to gain equal opportunities and supplies in their lives, especially the children of the poorest families," he said on November 24, 2018, in the presentation of the main axes of the New Democracy proposals. He spoke of greater autonomy in educational units, greater confidence in our teachers, of a system of education that creates equal opportunities and more opportunities for all and of creating a model and experimental school in every regional unit of our country. It referred to the evaluation, at all levels and the dissemination of best practices. When I hear a critical dialogue developing on the question of evaluation, I am surprised, especially when these objections are tabled by some - fortunately - trade unions in education. With this tactic, you know, they substantiate the suspicions of all of us, in relation to the real causes of the crisis that the trade union movement is going through in Greece 2020. Our teachers, teachers and teachers of our children, those who were struggling for the gaps created by the closure of schools because of the recent pandemic, the teachers who have made us proud of their unwise efforts to respond to the teleconferences, are not afraid of evaluation. They seek it, seek it, because they want to support the public school, because they respect the needs of our children and constantly want to be better. The evaluation, unfortunately, is only averted by those who do not do their job properly. Really, who's judging who, after all? The evaluation of school units, as provided for in the bill, is carried out by teachers themselves, i.e. by the association of teachers. It shall include an annual report on the areas under focus, the objectives set and the documented assessment of the achievement of those objectives. There is also provision for the external evaluation of the school unit by educational project coordinators and regional educational planning centres with the participation of the Quality Assurance Authority in Primary and Secondary Education and the Institute for Education Policy. As a father, this time, I will ask myself: Who does not want the external evaluation of his child's school? The aim of the evaluation is not stigmatisation and punishment, but lasting improvement and a reward of effort. This is why the evaluation is directly linked to the training and training process for the overall improvement of educational capacity. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we have today in our hands makes self-evident. It starts from the beginning, from the bottom up and introduces from the kindergarten new pilot educational themes to develop digital and mild skills to students. Unfortunately, colleagues in the opposition are talking about anachronistic bill. I wonder, is it anachronisation to contact children with climate change, sustainable development, volunteering, robotics, entrepreneurship and sexual education? Even the pilot introduction of English to kindergarten is necessary and important. Today, a foreign language is taught from the age of three to fourteen European education systems. How is it possible to raise objections to the pilot introduction of English in kindergarten through creative activities, when it is known to everyone that today we are talking about in most private kindergartens in the country? How does SYRIZA justify this highly classic distinction of opportunities? Unfortunately, however, the Qualified Opposition seems not to understand the realism that critical issues require, such as the upgrading of the school. This is confirmed by meetings of the committee by the MPs who express their opposition to the introduction of English to kindergartens and claim that they are caring for the personality of infants, while they wondered whether the decision of the Ministry of Education is a prerequisite for American schools and universities, adopting these well-known conspiracy theories. They also consider the network of pilot and experimental schools as a carcinoma in the guts of public education, which will excavate and feed on the bleeding of other schools. I understand that every government also gives its ideological signal through its educational policy. But that's more regression and darkness. Minister, last October I asked you the question with which I spoke about a pilot school in Fthiotis and with today's bill you are giving this opportunity, not only in Fthiotis, but in the whole region of Central Greece to create this kind of school unit. By providing for an invitation to be issued in 2020, public schools will be able to become standards and experimentally, on the basis of specific criteria. In addition, I think that we can then work and mature the idea of creating and standardised professional high school schools, with specialisation in areas such as rural ones, with a view to linking them to the local economy and, of course, to the production process. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] I also consider it necessary to reshape and modernise technological education in order to create well-trained technicians and craftsmen, who are extremely necessary in Greece tomorrow. Dear Ministers, I leave it as food for thought for the next piece of legislation. In conclusion, with regard to the extroversion of Greek universities, I will say that, unfortunately, the ideological orders of the previous government did not allow for the establishment of private universities by constitutional revision. They have not allowed our country to be a strong educational pole in Europe. Now that we are strengthening the extroversion of universities and allowing foreign language programmes to be set up, we regrettably object. We create higher education that attracts students from all over the world. We highlight the value of the Greek universities and, of course, we are attempting a reform in education, with the aim of strengthening the people of the world tomorrow with all the necessary supplies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, too. I call to Stepma the MP of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, any legislative intervention in the sensitive area of education requires planning, dialogue, consultation, fermentation and composition. It demands, I would say, greater convergence and seeks consensus, especially in the educational community. After all, education as a public and social asset requires an end to improvisations, an end to experimentation. The Minister invoked the New Democracy programme for education presented in 2018, when - to remind you - the New Democracy was a political opposition. Mr Ministers, you will allow me to have a different approach, a starting point which primarily has the need for change, the need for rehabilitation, the need for a return to the regularity of education from the renegotiations and the counter-reformation of the then SYRIZA - ANEL government and much less consistency in the programming commitments of yours. This is because the hearing of the bodies, the Ministers, proved this in the best way, since the project was almost universal - but universal - refusal by all the representatives called for an opinion. However, you did not accept any of the comments made by the actors, who were essentially asking to close this parenthesis of SYRIZA's educational reform, a parentheses that led to dissolution of all three levels of education, a parentheses with policies that resulted from ideological obsessions rather than dialogue, consultation and fermentation, as I said earlier. And, indeed, the equation of the quality of education downwards. Our rapporteur, Mrs Kefalidou, spoke in detail about this bill. I would like to remind you of the period 2014-2019, where we had the abolition of EAGFs, the depreciation of excellence, the abolition of the topic bank, the amendments to special education. Madam Minister, I would like to remind you that together we were voting against the then bill by Mr. Gavroglou and Mr. Friends. But today, you have forgotten and changed your mind and you have continued the same mistake, the mistake of Mr. Gavroglou and Mr. Friend. I will recall the unconstitutional selection process of executives, the suspension of each evaluation process in January 2015, the total abandonment of lifelong education, the demolition of Law No.4009/2011, the Law of Diamantopoulou, which was dismantled by Mr. Arvanitopoulos, as Mr. Philis said. SYRIZA came over in one night to abolish him, a law that had been passed by the four fifths of the parliament. I'll remind you of the twenty thousand assignments that are still expected. And all this is about SYRIZA. Madam Minister, however, you are currently piloting a test addition of new thematic cycles to the kindergarten and to the compulsory school schedule. But here, Minister, you are facing doors open. I say this because these modules have been integrated into school units for years, whether within the flexible area or within the framework of health, cultural and environmental education programmes. There is the possibility of cutting further hours of teaching by the teacher of order, combined with reducing school hours by the SYRIZA - ANEL government, which is maintained by your Government. You lead to the reduction of many jobs, and you increase the undeterminedness of teachers to all, but all, the branches. If the political leadership of the Ministry of Education really wanted, but indeed, to strengthen the teaching of English Language and Informatics, you would have included it in the EAPI school program, with the abolition of which by the SYRIZA - ANEL government you did not actually agree. This is a programme that we as a Change Movement - PASOK insist must lead to a state, but state, certificate, which will be acquired within the public education system and, indeed, with the completion of the Third High School. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot of talk about the evaluation. Many decades now laws, presidential decrees in drawers. Nothing more. Why? Why isn't it connected to what? With training. With the support structures of the educational project. With the financial self-sufficiency of the school unit. With the administrative self-reliance and, ultimately, with the much-needed self-government of the school club. In this draft law, you are approaching the assessment with the logic of Presidential Decree 152, by strengthening Law 4547/2018. So what? You're walking the same way SYRIZA carved. And we're telling you, as soon as you get out of this street, you're doing good because it's the way of the wrong. Efforts failed, condemned to the educational community, and memories and events unacceptable. At no point in the bill references are made and the concept, purpose and characteristics of the self-assessment of the school unit are not clarified. We didn't see them, at least. You may mean them, but you may not present them. There is a very clear lack of scientific foundation. There is a substantial risk that the self-assessment process of the school unit will develop in a bureaucratic event, which shrinks and dehydrates - I would say - the educational process at school. Ministers, every school unit from the school year 2020-2021 must have an approved internal rules of operation and the new provision on the rules of procedure is certainly not so new, since it was also included in 2011 in the draft law of the Ministry of Education entitled - to remind you - 'Restructure regional administration and education services'. However, there is an important reference to that draft law, where the implementation of the regulation was the responsibility of the school club and the director of the school unit, which we do not see today. With the new provisions, it is now only approved by a decision of the coordinator of educational work and the director of education. This, ladies and gentlemen, combined with the participation of parents and local government in the drafting of the regulation, demonstrates the clear devaluation of the role of the teachers' association, and also the Ministry's desire for a suffocating administrative control of education. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of discussion in consultation on the number of pupils per section. I would say here, Minister - which is not at this moment - that you are still moving out of your place, but, as the institutions have pointed out at the hearing, it leads to a further deterioration of the training provided, which is suffocating in these departments, with compulsory mobility of pupils, teachers and more overnumbers, less recruitment of substitutes with job losses. I come to mention the conduct, which is - I would say - a regression and does not suit you or I do not think it represents you. But I wonder why you suggest it. Why is what will be missing soon? The inspector! Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement, PASOK, has clearly formulated its position for the school we want, for a strong, modern, qualitative public education. We believe in real dialogue, scientifically documented, founded on education and education in our country, with proposals that are innovative, for the benefit of pupils and students, but also with respect for the officials of education. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to an issue that I have actually raised and...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u32	No, no, don't move on to a new one. You've been over eight minutes. Because there are many registered and many speakers, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u33	I'll be back in a minute. It is very sensitive, and I would like to stress that this is also a requirement for other Members and for Mr Salma and Mr Lebanese, and I would also say to Mr Karaguni. It's not Mr. Moraite and Mr. Bored. And I'm talking about the abolition of the Department for the Management of the Cultural Environment and New Arts of Agrinio. It is a department with seven hundred graduates, a department with three hundred students, a department with a postgraduate program, a department certified by January 2019 and indeed in April 2019 was abolished by Mr.Gavroglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u34	Okay, you went to nine minutes. Let's say that first.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u35	In a minute. It's about local society.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u36	If we start from now on overtaken in time... Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Digalakis, you here from this position said that it was unquestionably abolished. Mrs Kyriazopoulou is waiting to send out the suggestion of reopening and re-establishing the department, which she has not done. I came in contact with Mr. Mitka, President of the EAEC, has never received such a recommendation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u38	Parliamentary control for this, Mr President! Do parliamentary control with a timely or written question. I'm sorry. Doesn't mean we're taking the Step and...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, this is the way parliamentary control is done and this section is required to enter the 2020 computerisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u40	You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u41	And of course, Mr Minister, Mr Digalakis, I expect your reply, as well as the Minister. No more squabbling with that department and the students. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u42	The next speaker, Mr Christos Kellas, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft law "School Upgrade and other provisions" our Government is today implementing its commitments to a modern educational system of open-ended inclusive horizons, which provides our children with knowledge tailored to the requirements of our time and gives equal opportunities to all, while rewarding excellence and integrity. From the bottom up, as we promised, with a plan and objectives, we are moving towards the reconstruction of primary, secondary, higher education and the strengthening of special education. As far as the new curriculum is concerned, children will still be acquainted with the presence of kindergartens - I stress - with the English language and will acquire skills for their lives, which will be cultivated more systematically in the next few years in elementary school, along with the second foreign language and information and communication technologies. These are, of course, pilot projects, but I would like to point out to you once again, Minister, that the content of skills workshops must be determined by way of consideration from the Minister of Education, because individual subjects such as health treatment, which is not addressed to young people, are provided for, and this has caused the concern of the world throughout the country. In relation to secondary education, teachers' associations had warned the previous government of SYRIZA that the high school has turned into a modern children's parking lot. This is now radically changing and high school is evolving into a head office which will favour the more effective orientation of pupils in high school. The establishment of the themes bank in conjunction with the drafting of the new school manuals by the IPA promote the renewal of the first and second grades as a stage in the acquisition of specialized knowledge and preparation for the whole of Greece. In the third grade, the guidance groups are reduced to three and the integration into the scientific fields is streamlined in favour of students, who will be more coherent and more effective in the subjects that are inclined and interconnected with their later academic path. At the same time, the Ministry of Education promotes excellence and innovation, respectively through pilot and experimental schools, which will operate in conditions of participatory governance, productive evaluation and interaction with local communities. And I would like to return, Minister, to the question that I have raised in committee. In Article 13 there were 62-28 standards and 34 experimental schools - all over the territory. Larissa must be included in this category, as she has top teachers who exercise the educational function overcoming the conditions laid down in this draft law. I would therefore like the Ministry to inform us in good time of the procedure and timetable for submitting the relevant evaluation applications, because Larissa had a standard. He wants to have a model and experimental and artistic school and it is also the headquarters of the Region of Thessaly. Furthermore, it should be noted that in all schools a new concept is introduced through which the school is now coming closer to the pupils, and I am certainly referring to the institution of the school-leaving counsellor for secondary education, which will contribute to a better school environment. Our young people and young people will have a direct support that will act as a bridge of communication both within school and with parents, in order to be encouraged in the foretaste of their careers. Of course, I see it as self-evident that the Minister of Education should be authorised to take all the measures they need to deal with phenomena of school intimidation. In relation to special education, we acted as an undeniable need, as co-responsible for the education sector of the New Democracy, when we were in opposition. We ensure that our children are not faced with gaps and that the positions of special educational staff, special assistant staff and support are covered in a timely and stable manner. The best possible operation of special education and training schools is ensured. We must not forget that the education of children with particular capabilities and needs is a sacred obligation of the social rule of law, as is also the case in ensuring equal access to work and, in general, the provision of equal opportunities. That is why we are organising a more comprehensive framework of education, which I am sure with the assistance of our teachers will be the basis for the practical support of our pupils and students who fall within these categories. And I come to tertiary education. In our programme we set out that a strategic objective is to make the country an international academic, educational centre. And that's what we do today. With this in mind, the provisions of this draft law lay the foundations and in particular the establishment of the foreignlanguage curriculum which the HEIs can organise, as well as the foreignlanguage double-language curriculum, the double-linguistic curriculum and the summer curriculum. Through the specific arrangements and thanks primarily to the enthusiastic potential of our universities, which is liberated by the strangles of the past, Greece will become a cave of science and culture in the region of the Eastern Mediterranean and the Balkans by increasing its mild power. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I should like to refer to another promise which is part of the provisions on higher education, and today it is taking place, based on the priorities we have set for education. This is a change in the whole context of translations, which supports the translations of children from three to ten families and the social and economic criteria are updated with a view to strengthening social solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law does not only restructure education in order to strengthen the country's competitive European and international environment tomorrow, but it has a strengthened social profile, reflecting the patriotic conscience and social sensitivity of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy. That is why we are voting in favour of it by taking a dynamic step towards raising and restoring the place, because Greece, with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is becoming every day that passes a model across Europe and the modern world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u44	We are also grateful for the exact respect of time. I now invite the SYRIZA MP, Mr Papaliou. Here, Mr. Papaliou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of education is primarily ideological and political. The options for its content identify the country's orientation and course towards the future. At the same time, do they define socio-economic relations and social equilibrium, since education is a vehicle of social mobility and social immobilisation, struggling and reproduction of the existing social structure, depending on how education is approached, as a public good or as a commodity? In this context, major changes in education issues, so-called 'educational reforms', have a clear ideological and political sign. Others are reforms and other reforms. Reforms have a progressive figure, while reforms have a conservative to reactive orientation. The current government proposal contained in this bill falls under the category of reforms. The contents of the bill are diseductive and emits a spirit of anachronism and class prejudice. In this context, social inequalities and exclusions are reproduced. It is no coincidence that the education community as a whole is contrary, except to the owners of private schools and the great caregivers. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's legislative initiative shrinks public education and restores the normality of the memorial years, but also backwards, through an educational framework based on discrimination and strengthens social inequalities. Among other things, it provides for an increase in the burden of examination, the reintroduction of the themes bank, the punishing evaluation and conduct of pupils, an increase in the number of pupils per section in primary school and schooling in kindergarten, as well as the introduction of rating criteria for postgraduations. This must be added to your actions so far, Minister and gentlemen of the New Democracy, such as the abolition of the two-year programmes to the higher education institutions for the graduates of the ESDP, the regulation for cameras in classes, distance teaching without teachers and students being equipped with the necessary technology. In particular, I repeat that the current bill provides for an increase in the maximum number of pre-pupils, infants and pupils in primary school to twenty-five children per section, while the SYRIZA administration had reduced them to twenty-two. In preschool education, the kindergarten "trains" with the introduction of separate teaching objects and especially with the introduction of the English course, despite the categorical opposition of the meeting of the Presidents and Quaestors of the educational departments of the universities, who decide that learning a foreign language in kindergarten and scientific documentation is lacking and the particular educational needs of the infants ignores. Rescribe the conduct in the subject-matter. This arrangement, as a punishment, is undisciplined. It is a burden on punishment and not on prevention and pedagogical penitentiary. This is a provision which the Scientific Service of the Parliament also raises objections. These objections relate to the protection of personal data, much more so when such registration will follow the graduates in the Ministries. This may mean a negative assessment or a discreet treatment of them in the future. The evaluation as an institutional function exists. However, the draft law establishes a form of authoritarian internal evaluation and a multiple external evaluation, starting with the standards and experimental schools leading to the categorisation of schools, the manipulation of teachers and their competitive relationship. The Bank is reintroducing issues which are of benefit to memorialization and the strengthening of misappropriation. With the arrangements of the bill, the school is converted into an examination centre, since the written courses are increased, which is done, of course, at the expense of teaching, teaching process and the development of knowledge. Sociology is also being abolished as a compulsory course. This arrangement degrades or rather degrades the lessons of social sciences in a way that is unscientific and undisciplined. Sociology offers students a wider concept of society and helps to form active citizens, as defined in the Constitution. Of course, it must not be forgotten that some New Democracy colleagues have described it as a 'left science'. With regard to the provisions relating to foreign language undergraduate programmes, in fact their establishment will lead to a dismantling and deterioration of the Greek language programmes. He is a pretext of graduates' and professional rights ranking. As a member of the Revision Committee of the Constitution close to the process, I found that the proposal for a revision of Article 16 of the Constitution was also the great felony of the New Democracy. All Members spoke to her about the great missed opportunity to review and limited it to Rule 16. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Since then, efforts have been made to circumvent this article, such as the regulation which equates the evidence of college studies with the diplomas of the HEIs. Efforts continue with this bill. Finally, the mandatory electronic vote on the emergence of rectoral authorities and the restriction of the selective body only to the members of the board of directors, excluding the rest of the working university community, demonstrates the aristocratic spirit of the New Democracy and its abstraction towards equal democratic participation. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's main ideological and political choice is neoliberalism. He's subject to education too. It is traded by subtracting it into the market by privatising it. It does not seek the quality of education and its dissemination in all the social strata, since it ignores social inequalities and functional illiteracy, considering all these natural and self-evident. One last thing: In addition to the other omissions of the bill, there is no mention of it and no care is taken for the schools of regional Greece, those schools which are now in office - are still being held - even six months after the start of the school year, as this year was done in schools in the Arcadia Prefecture, in difficult and mountainous areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u46	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u47	It is those schools where children help their family at the same time, those schools whose students go to school, move or wait long enough, losing time and suffering. These schools need a special approach and attention not to their upgrade, but to their elementary function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u48	Mr Yiannis Loverdos has the floor from New Democracy. At the end of the speeches of the first eight speakers, the Minister will take the floor and then the parliamentary representatives will be given the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u49	Thank you. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. As you can see, I speak without manuscript because I always speak from my mind and from my heart and say things as I feel things. Today I would particularly like to address the good colleagues from Opposition, because we happen to be in different parties, but that does not mean that we are enemies. We are all here to contribute to democracy, parliamentaryism and our country. The bill we are debating today is a bill that fatally creates strong ideological controversy. Education, education has always created controversy even more severely than the economy. That makes sense. I would say that at this point - of course I have also told the committee - we must have three things in mind, firstly that education is for pupils. It is neither for the Minister nor for the Ministry, nor for the MPs, nor for the trade unions, nor even for teachers. They are the pupils, the next generations to benefit from education. Sometimes I feel that in the discussions that are taking place we forget that and we put the trade union, party, political or any other interest higher. The second thing I have to say is that by following the public debate on education for many years, since I was a first-year student, together with my friend Nikos Philie in 1978 - we are not children anymore - we know that in the public debate on education there has been over forty years now - the left. That's clear. For what has happened in education since those years, even if we had governments of either the New Democracy or the PASOK, the ideological domination was left. While then there was reason to liberate both the university and the school, we got along with extremes. From the necessary, at the time, liberalisation reached the level of equality, we have reached the extremes, culminating in the occupations and disasters that have been carried out in schools and in our universities for many years. In my opinion we have misthinked this as a society and as a political system. It is because of this, therefore, that the Left of today, when criticising this bill, does not exercise it in the sense of the future and progress. I think that at the moment taking the positions of opposition on education is not progressive and I am sorry to say that. These positions are conservative to reactionary, as Mr Papaliou said earlier. For me - and I think for every sensible person - to move forward, we must adapt to what our society really wants today, what our society wants and what the world wants. The world, Mr Philly, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, does not want any other occupations at all. Parents and children don't want any occupations. We don't want to have a good time in school and have fun. People want education. You know, a colleague from SYRIZA spoke about the instruction. "You are" - he says - "in favor of the instruction." Who's in favor of taking care of him? The schools were launched in the years during which the conquest culture prevailed, because the children did not go to school and went to the school to learn five things and possibly learned them. They only learned things to go to college and up to there, so today our educational system is getting sick. Let's make a decision, once we're at the bottom of the PISA evaluation, on our universities' evaluation, on the Shanghai list. We see that around us. There's no knowledge of our children today. They don't even know how to write Greek and they don't have basic historical knowledge. Not everyone, but too many. So, that's where we failed as an educational system, we failed as a political system, and I'm sorry to say it. I've heard incredible things these days. I've heard before that sociology is left-wing science. At least some people think it's not a left-wing science. I agree. There are no left and right sciences. Max Webber, the top sociologist, was only a communist. But saying it's left or right, sociology is funny. I have also heard arguments about which languages will be taught. We have reached the point of talking about whether or not English should be taught at ages. I will not say what a SYRIZA colleague said, namely that we are serving the interests of the Americans, Bill Gates, the 5G and the coronary. I don't know what else we're serving, but be realistic. Our children, who learn from the tablet and mobile from young ages, know better English than many older people and learn more easily. I think we should move forward. If I had a criticism of Mrs Kerameo's bill and the head of the Ministry of Education, I would say that it is very ambitious. With the data we have, because I know how public administration works, I know how the public school works, I know the money that we have in public education, I'm not at all sure it'll be implemented in practice. I hope it will be implemented, but I do not know if that will be possible. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you are losing in polling and you are so behind not because we are playing our channels in New Democracy, but because you are being turned back by the world. People don't want what you're saying anymore. You need to find a new account to say, because, if you don't find this new account, I'm afraid you'll stay on the sidelines. And you're going to tell me: But do you care what SYRIZA will do? Of course not. Theoretically I don't care. I care, however, because SYRIZA is a Civic Anti-Policy and we need the parliamentary system, and it needs a strong Civic Anti-Policy, which pressures the government, which does not allow for arrogance to develop in the government, because that is what parliamentaryism and democracy require. I think you haven't noticed in SYRIZA yet. I'm not teaching you any lessons or I'm in a position to give you one. I'm just telling you my opinion and try to be better for us as a government even better for the future of our country for the future of our next generations and our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u50	Thank you too for keeping time. I call on the Minister of Education, Mr. Kyrameos, Mr. Synthraki, to take the floor for seven minutes, and then the Minister of Education, Mr. Niki Kyrameos, will take the floor, and then a number of parliamentary representatives, first with Mrs. Xenogiannakopoulou, have called for the floor. I say this in order to inform Members who are outside the Chamber. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. If anyone tries to compose the puzzle of all reactionary reforms from the mid-90s to the present, especially in the name of budgetary discipline and national purpose, he will understand that all governments over time, right, left, central, with laws and ministerial decisions, with severe cuts in funding, step by step by step the public education sweater: a ban on recruitment of teachers, cuts and rationalisation of staff in primary and high school, a new timetable of high school, promotion of evaluation. All this based on the recipes of the OECD, the suggestions of the Greek Industrial Association and the close monitoring of European Union officials. Behind all this, there is a strong desire for these staff and governments to fully adapt the structure, content and functioning of the school to the market economy, to the preferences of capital, in order to ensure maximum profit and the competitiveness of business groups for the production of a lifelong flexible, cheap workforce without rights. This, of course, presupposes that a school that filters the thought of a young man, tomorrow's worker from his first steps, teaches him to think about not his own interests and society as a whole, but that of the employer, in a world where business profits are seen as a zoo and above all. In this effort, the four European Union strategies for education by 2020, for the lifelong learning and mobility of pupils, the quality of results and benefits in the cost-benefit logic, with indicators of entrepreneurship, the so-called 'activity of the active citizen', focusing on self-management capabilities and strengthening innovation, including entrepreneurship. These objectives serve this draft law and skill workshops, skills, which are completely contradicted by modern general education and education for all children, the exploitation of scientific and technological achievements for social progress and prosperity, the emphasis on social - humanitarian sciences that contribute under preconditions to the overall formation of the personality of the young man, through the balanced culture of all sides of social personality, understanding, feeling and will. And all this to reduce the skills gap in Greece, as the BSE crisis says, in order to link education and training systems to the needs of the labour market and to create a skills council with representatives of business and education to critical and extroverting sectors of the economy, as it says. The young man, today, from the most tender age, is literally lost in a range of information that needs to be managed. There are not too many things that need to be done: writing, reading, foreign language, computer use, arithmetic about it, familiarization with entrepreneurship and individual solutions, cooking recipes and "a little of all". Of course, a high school-examination arena on the basis of memorialization and papaya, which reverses the satisfaction of popular education needs. He just learns to learn through life so that he can as a worker on the next day respond to the individual on-site needs of the labour market. But this is the expression of functional illiteracy and is a sign of the urban school at every stage of its development. Such anachronistic school also constitutes an extermination of humanitarian and social sciences. Hence the lousy game of "rave-slide" played jointly by the New Democracy with SYRIZA for which of the two courses, Latin or Sociology will be exiled or favored against the other. This shows the narrowness of your thinking about the role of social sciences, their usefulness, the need to put themselves in the service of social progress. This oneness for one lesson or another also gives rise to questions: Are they ministries in the back? Is this the conflict between the various lobbys expressed in the political controversy between you? We're asking questions. We're asking. From the sixteen teaching hours a week, with the abolition of sociology, the hours are reduced to nine, with a view to reducing to five hours if the indications for the abolition of the second grade are verified. The reduction is speedy. These are two sciences that, in their interdisciplinary relationship and approach, contribute not only to explaining the world, but mainly to the development of the path of social change. That is why you have a hostile refusal to place social sciences in the service of social progress. We consider you smart enough not to understand that. Just in a school, whose main concern is the technocratic, useful nature of the content of knowledge, objectively limit general education and corresponding courses simply to a level of minimization of knowledge. You are obviously afraid of the Latin approach not as a lesson in parrotism, but on the substance, with knowledge of the historical and cultural conditions in which it has succeeded and the Latin text, a lesson that contributes to linguistic development and to the formation of the disciples' thought and objectively leads to the need for a parallel approach to sociology as a science, which can also help to explain the social phenomena, the legalities of social development, how society changes, what the social forces that make up all the historical formations, how in the territory of this social formation forms emerge forms of consciousness, ways of thinking, attitudes, cultures and cultures. However, this approach is not and could not be the aim of the market school. Each obviously has its own selfishness as science, but they do not stand up against each other as they seek to convince us through this fight. There are no Chinese walls in their cooperation and interdisciplinary approach. The usefulness of a course is not only judged by whether or not it is considered in the pan-Hellenic exams. Both of you - and New Democracy and SYRIZA - deliberately add an ideological dimension to the utility of both courses, deliberately focusing only on the level of the examination arena, and indeed on the clear and dangerous arguments of the press that "Latin is not useful" or that "Sociology is a left-wing science", deliberately overlooking that in a class society a social science can only have classic content, that the truths of science are not necessary to correspond to the truths of social reality. The value of a course is judged by its contribution to the knowledge and general formation of the student. All of this can be ensured if it is at the heart of interest that a school is set up that seeks to provide a broad educational background for students. It's what you're fighting for. That is why you make use of this well-known divides and reigned among specialties, to teachers, to disorientate from the essence of reactionary reforms in education, with which you agree, to hide your strategic partnership for the market school. We call on teachers and students not to be trapped in meaningless, appropriate and, in essence, in no sense 'Latin or Sociology'. This is what they want, to cause a breach between teachers and to get them weakened by their internal conflicts. The enemy is not my fellow teacher, but the governments, the European Union and the capital, which look forward to the market school.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u52	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u53	I shall conclude, Mr President. Give me a little tolerance of time, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u54	Please shorten.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u55	Of course, the utility and value of these sciences cannot find their place in a sterile melting system with overdue knowledge and undergoing the need of the market. This means, in practice, that through a radical change in the detailed programmes and in the books, the conditions can be created so that these lessons can actually find the place they deserve. The JRC, Mr President, has already tabled its proposal to the meetings of the Committee on Morphic Affairs, but we have addressed ears of no-hearing. The Minister's answer was that my case is unconstitutional. It's an unfounded and funny excuse. For everything that the governments despise, they also have an unconstitutionality. In this respect, both the Minister itself and the government as a whole are exposed, as SYRIZA is also exposed to the toys he plays. We reiterate our proposal - and this is what I shall close, Mr President - for the parallel preservation of Latin and sociology. The Sociology course should be included as a pan-Hellenic course, depending on the student's chosen department or school, and so it should be the Latin class as planned for biology and mathematics in another guidance group. This is our place,
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Symphony, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u57	...is a fair regulation that has broad support from institutions, scientists and both branches. So this bill by nature is reactionary, more competitive for the vast majority of young people and even from the smaller classes, so doomed and rejected in the consciousness of the vast majority of the educational community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u58	The Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill we are debating today, we are taking an important step towards the implementation of our 'target higher' project, we can do better to upgrade public school. We change programmes, we establish new procedures, we gradually differentiate educational standards to provide our students with more and better equipment for the present and the future. Legislative interventions along with ministerial decisions, initiatives that will frame it and the subsequent legislation which concern, among other things, vocational education have a basic aim: a school that is more substantial, more qualitative and more open, higher expectations and requirements, which meets the need for more global education, more creative management and use of the knowledge provided and continuous self-assurance, a school of vigilance, the achievement of the learning objectives, the best educational results, a better and safer school environment, with clear procedures for imprinting and improving the quality of education. By investing, ladies and gentlemen, in his modern school today, we provide our children with more and better facilities for tomorrow and we are building together a more dynamic, more inclusive society with equal opportunities and inclusiveness. Because education is the most important mechanism for social mobility. Unfortunately, our country is lagging behind with other countries in terms of schoolchildren's performance on the basis of objective indicators. In 2018 in the international competition for the program "PISA" the Greek students ranked below the average of the contestants from seventy eight countries to three basic scribbling skills: understanding text, Mathematics, Natural Sciences. Indeed, the performance of our students was lower than in 2015. It was important for our students to be retarded in mild skills, but also in digital skills, technology and science skills. I put the results of this competition in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same time, the incidents of school bullying and infractionality continue in the school environment. At the beginning of the year, a seventeen - year - old student had to stay at the hospital after beating his classmates, while shortly before we witnessed one last year’s demolition incident, a teacher from her student in PAAL. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that a great deal needs to be done in our schools and the demands of the changing international environment are further intensified by the need to move quickly, with a plan and determination, so that we can gradually change the educational example, build the school of critical thought, the school of vigilance, the school of knowledge that teaches knowledge, at the same time as moral, the school which is made free and responsible. The general approach of the bill is upwards, with changes beginning with the kindergarten, such as the introduction of new themes and reaching examinations for introduction to higher education. At the same time, the bill contains regulations aimed at strengthening universities, such as promoting the extroversion of Greek universities through the establishment of foreign language departments and cooperation with foreign universities. Ladies and gentlemen, six are the main packages of reforms that we are introducing. First package of reforms: changes to education program and educational processes for a more creative, more open, more extroverted. We import Skill Labs, important innovation that we aspire to have transformative effects. Because the mission of the school, ladies and gentlemen, is not only knowledge, it is not just the transmission of knowledge, but also the development of skills to manage and exploit this knowledge. School mission is global education. In this direction new subjects are being piloted from next school year in the compulsory programme of preschools, primary and secondary schools, with skills proposed by the Council of Europe and the OECD, which will be valuable to pupils when they come to society tomorrow and to the constantly evolving labour market. Laboratories are organised in four thematic circles and their individual themes: "Life", with health education courses, such as dependency prevention, road safety, sexual education. Federal Centre for Health Education of 2019 research shows a significant number of European countries that have integrated sexual education into school curricula. Secondly, the 'environment', with lessons such as ecological consciousness and prevention and protection against natural disasters, innovative, timely lessons in global educational systems. For example, in France and Portugal. Third Axis: Social consciousness and responsibility with volunteering, mutual respect and diversity programmes. Fourth Axis: Creative thinking and initiative with themes relating to advanced technologies in robotics, entrepreneurship, professional orientation. Youth entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship programmes are already being implemented in countries such as the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden. The goal of Skill Labs is to strengthen in a more coherent, more systematic way the cultivation of mild skills, life skills, technology and science skills, such as critical thinking, communication, initiative, creativity, adaptability, while familiarizing our teachers with more experiential teaching methods. With a look at the needs of the fourth industrial revolution, we focus more on learning and not just on content. Such pilot actions have been implemented in many countries internationally, such as, for example, in England, with the Health Minds pilot programme. Since 2020, the United Kingdom has introduced into the compulsory programme of schools, a programme of studies focusing on mild skills. Finland and other countries respectively. We have heard as a criticism of the Qualified Opposition that this was the thematic week. The institution of Skill Labs obviously has nothing to do with theme week. First of all, it concerns school life as a whole, kindergarten, primary, high school every week, not only a week, gentlemen of the Officerate, in the compulsory timetable, by training teachers in laboratory non-formal approach. It's not optional and it's not just about high school. The thematic week had no programme, no substantial training, no training or substantial skills culture. It was only for one week, it was only optional, only in high school fragmentary and sketchy, without morality and without any underlying coherent logic. For the Skill Labs, we addressed an open call to bodies that have prepared relevant training programmes. And the response was very large, three hundred thirteen proposals of educational programmes, as well as educational material for these themes, new skills, teaching in kindergartens, in primary school teachers, in high school teachers, in additional hours that we have added to both primary and high school. We import creative activities in English from kindergarten. It is piloted by the involvement of students in English through creative activities. Why? Because during pre-school age the foundations of learning, thinking and all mental processes are laid. Research has shown that children exposed in more than one language receive multiple cognitive benefits, such as solving problems, flexibility in knowledge and communication capabilities, creativity, cultural consciousness. But also in relation to the mother tongue, research shows that early acquisition of a second language increases the performance in the mother tongue of children. It has been a global trend since 2000, especially in the last decades, to learn foreign languages to be introduced into older and older ages. From three countries of Europe in 2015 to fourteen countries in 2019-Belgium, Bulgaria, Estonia, Spain, Cyprus, Croatia, Luxembourg, Portugal, Romania, Finland, Malta - there is employment with a second foreign language since pre-school age. I shall return to the Minutes the relevant inquiry. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is also happening in our country. Most private kindergartens have also introduced these activities in English for years. Of course, we have heard here in this Chamber from the Qualified Opposition that the introduction of English to the kindergarten of another special hidden interest serves as a check, he says, for American universities. Ladies and gentlemen, in conspiracy theories we respond with evidence, we respond with research, we respond with the recommendations of the international organizations to which our country is a member. One goal is to serve, to provide more and better supplies to our children. And it is not, as has been misunderstood, a matter of teaching in a separate lesson. This is first contact and familiarization with the English language through creative activities. Neither the uniform nor the available nature of the kindergarten programme is therefore affected. The English teacher will always carry out the activities with the presence of the kindergarten, respecting the specificity of the relationship between the kindergarten and the young children. Special training is provided for by the Institute for Education Policy for this pilot project. We are strengthening the teaching of cognitive objects through the bill, but also through the ministerial decisions they follow. Strengthen IT by adding three hours to high school and high school, one to high school, two to high school. Classics with our Ancients are reintroduced in the examination courses in high school and Latin in the pan-Hellenic examination courses of the third grade. Physical Education with the introduction of a two-hour and a two-hour high school. The addition of a third hour to the 3rd grade with the measurement of Physical Education in the general middle of high school and foreign languages with the addition of six hours, two hours in primary and four hours in high school. We are broadening the methods of assessing the progress of pupils, for example through research work, in IT, in political education, by strengthening the culture of critical thinking, research thought. And they increase the written courses in high school from four to seven and in high school from eight to six, four to eight, seven, five to monitor more systematically and study courses. I am establishing the high school-grade issue bank with immediate application in the first high school year 2020-2021. The Bank's operation is twofold: first, to ensure all the curriculum materials from all the schools in the country and, therefore, to avoid learning gaps and structural inequalities, to cover all the material. Secondly, the creation of a coherent reliable system for assessing the progress of pupils through the export of data on an objective basis. The establishment of the theme bank facilitates the design of educational policy by setting it on the right basis, continuous evaluation and where necessary reassessment, a review of the curriculum and learning standards and methods followed. The use of the themes bank in educational evaluation procedures has been a common practice in the international area for many decades. For example, in countries such as the European Union, in America at the Educational Testing Service, in states of Canada, Australia, China and even from the OECD. We introduce the logic of the "kontra" course in the third grade, with the aim of offering our children a wider culture and strengthening general education. This is why the history of students who choose practical direction and mathematics for students who choose theoretical direction is added to the third level. We streamline the process of promoting and dismissing pupils. In high school, the student is considered to have a merit of promotion when he has an annual rate of at least 10 or a general average of 15. Otherwise, if it has up to four lessons under the base, it can be re-examined in September. In high school, the general promotional average is increased to 'twelfth'. Reset the gravity factors in the pan-Hellenic tests. This promotes more systematic follow-up and study of all courses throughout the school year, as well as the overall culture of pupils. The second package of reforms: Evaluation. Evaluation as a means of improving the educational process. As we were committed, we proceed with the evaluation of the school unit and the educational project, based on the three-tier programming - self-assessment - external evaluation. Ladies and gentlemen, in our country evaluation has been fought and fought as few reforms. And, unfortunately, it is discredited as a concept even today. The systematic evaluation of all the factors of the education process is a prerequisite for improving each educational system. It is necessary to identify needs and weaknesses which make it difficult to function and achieve the objectives set by the school itself. But it is also an opportunity to highlight opportunities and achievements because, yes, ladies and gentlemen, there are many possibilities, many bright examples of schools, inconvenient efforts of enlightened teachers with a sense of vision that their emergence can make a key contribution to the change of example in public education and is linked to the training of teachers. The evaluation is a unique opportunity for confidence in the public school. Evaluation and training are also interconnected. Both together contribute to ensuring the quality of the education project provided. This is exactly what we announced in November of 2018, when the New Democracy at the time as a military opposition had presented its full programme for education. That is why we committed ourselves in July 2019 to the government's programming statements, and that is what we are doing today. Programming, self-assessment, external evaluation and escalating implementation with respect to the capabilities of our school units and educational units and also responsibility for society. As we have said before, the evaluation of teachers will also follow after extensive consultation with all the institutions. Third package of reforms: More effective school units. We take special measures, special arrangements for the effective management of school units by correcting chronic pathogens. We motivate and set rules. Why, ladies and gentlemen, do you have many of you have to say 'But why, every year, every year, there are gaps?' The previous government abolished the double molecules for teachers serving in low-skilled schools. We are therefore predicting a double moleculosis for those who nurse in inaccessible areas, providing incentives. We're reducing the duration of the paintings from two to three years. What does that mean in practice? That the pre-service and qualifications of teachers will be more quickly measured. But, ladies and gentlemen, we also have rules. The state must ensure that our schools are properly staffed across Greece. Thus, if a teacher who has chosen to serve in a particular area does not appear and does not perform a service as a debtor, there is a two-year exclusion from recruitment and a three-year exclusion for those who do not undertake a service in the schools chosen by teachers following nominal invitations. Because we must ensure that every child can go to a school with teachers wherever this school is located. And it is a debt we have as a state to ensure that our schools are properly staffed. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Your tolerance, Mr President. Fourth package of reforms: Enlargement of the institution of pilot and experimental schools as innovation workshops for the dissemination of best practice in public education. We broaden the institution by making use of the positive experience of its previous attempt to introduce it in 2011, i.e. before the legislative interventions of the previous government and the significant expansion that took place in the two years 2012-2014. And we separate standards and experimental schools. In the standards of schools, we are strengthening the model of excellence in the sense of the constant self-assurance of pupils, which is why there is provision for introduction by exams. Experimental studies focus on the implementation of experimental methods, practices and new investment tools in a random sample of the student population. That's why you're supposed to import by draw. These schools are jointly a national educational workshop to design and implement differentiated and innovative educational policies. Since September 2020, twenty-eight pilot and thirty-four experimental schools have been scheduled to operate. Experimental schools remain secondary schools of Athens, Thessaloniki, Macedonia, Patras and Crete. The rest are currently operating as experimental, now characterised by standards and is also planned to issue an open call from 2020 for the conversion of other public schools into standards and experimental ones, based on criteria to be specified. A key pillar of the operation of these schools is the evaluation of the educational project, the evaluation of teachers. Our aim is for these schools to function as a tool for disseminating best practice in education. Here, too, they really give an almond impression about the position of Officer Opposition. Initially in 2015, they said excellence was a relic. But the ideoleptic sign is now returning more closely with the Officerial Representation's representative describing schools standards as "carcinoma" in the innermost of public education. He'll suck off and feed on the bleeding of the other schools. I think these words speak for themselves. Unfortunately, you are abstracting these exceptional public schools, the opportunity for students to study at these exceptional schools. You are reversing the functioning of these schools as a tool for disseminating best practices in education. And that is the difference between the balance downwards that you represent and the real application of the principle of equality and equal opportunities that we promote. This is the difference between the logic of the minor effort which you represent and the logic of lasting improvement and vigilance that we are trying to show. You don't want anyone to stand out, you don't want anyone to stand out. You want them all equals. But equals how? Down. And Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos, who will take the floor shortly after having answered the question of how, if I am not mistaken, the government of George Papandreou, the Minister of Anna Diamantopoulou who introduced the institution, now comes and embraces these views on carcinoma in the hearts of public education. Fifth package of reforms: More secure school environment. We are taking steps to establish a safer school environment. Amongst other things, we are establishing the schoolteacher, a teacher who undertakes to be the first disembodiment of the educational community in case, for example, of an incident of school intimidation. The advisor shall work in addition to supporting the Association of Teachers and other staff of education, as well as the existing institutions and mechanisms to support school units and contribute to the development of a climate of trust between the members of the school community and to the inclusive integration of the principles of education. Sixth package of reforms: Greater freedom, autonomy, extrovert to higher education. We are introducing more freedom, more autonomous, more extroverted institutions, thus further implementing our election commitments. We are strengthening the extroversion of universities, as the universities themselves have asked us to do. Because that's also questioned. I am tabling the decision of the Rectors' Conference, which specifically refers to the operation of foreign-language curriculum. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And the possibility is to establish foreign-language undergraduate programmes autonomously from each university without a partnership with the international university and without a Minister's approval, which you never wanted to leave from powers. We therefore make our commitment to universities more free and autonomous, for universities which can regulate their homes. Our legislative initiatives are part of the most comprehensive project that contributes to the qualitative upgrading of the educational project provided, to the strengthening of Greece as an international educational centre that attracts students from around the world. Next week I have a teleconference with foreign universities, leading universities, who want to work with our own excellent universities, with our own excellent human resources: teachers, students, all the educational potential, the administrative staff of our universities. We must give them the framework so that these cooperations can only be implemented for the benefit of our universities. And we are introducing an academic criterion in the translations, along with streamlining the existing economic and social criteria. Here too, serving equal opportunities and the quality of the studies provided, establishing the minimum degree of relocation as a criterion. So, on the one hand, we guarantee a fair distribution of students - we do not have the phenomenon of low molecules in schools and departments that require a very high number of molecules - and we also ensure the uninterrupted academic function with students who are able to meet the requirements of their studies. We are amending the procedure for the promotion of the Republican authorities on the basis of a single vote for a four-year term, serving the need for a better functioning of the university. Ladies and gentlemen, we are providing tools, we are giving further impetus to our universities to broaden their horizons within the country and outside the country. Ladies and gentlemen, I have briefly presented to you the basic reforms and innovations we are introducing with this bill. A bill that we collectively worked with all the political leadership, the entire Ministry of Education, with the Deputy Minister Sophia Zacharakis, with the Deputy Minister Vassilis Digalakis, with all the relevant Secretary-General. Our aim is to find solutions despite adversity. Our guarantee is to give our students, our students, more and better supplies. Our ambition is to put the bar increasingly higher and invest in the human potential of education, because this is the Greece of the creation that we want to serve. Because we can do better, because we deserve better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u60	I call on the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mrs Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos. Immediately after that, Mrs Papayannakis will be speaking and then, in the order of parliamentary power, the parliamentary representatives, who most have said will be present.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, will there not be a rotation of speakers and parliamentary representatives?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u62	Mr Vlao, it is customary for Parliamentary representatives to speak after the Minister concerned. When they're asking for the floor, I can't put a pace.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u63	So, the MPs will talk after two hours?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u64	It seems that yes, because the parliamentary representatives have asked for the floor and at some point the President of Mera25 has asked for the floor to take the floor, around 15.00 p.m. Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today in Houston there will be the funeral of the murdered George Floyd and in the last two weeks we have seen a wave of wrath and condemnation of racism, racial discrimination, police violence. We see a global movement that has now overcome American society and has expanded to Europe, Australia, a movement for rights, for essential equality, a movement for genuine solidarity and solidarity. And that is particularly important, because this movement is following the movement that we had on climate change and signals a vigilance, an international awakening in a stubbornness of neoliberalism and the narrative, which had been attempted to impose all the previous years. Now, indeed, with pandemic, this account has suffered very serious damage, because new needs have emerged and we are already experiencing serious economic and social consequences. The importance of the social state, national health systems, has again emerged. And, of course, the social state, ladies and gentlemen, it is education as a public asset. It is, of course, the importance of public policies, the importance of supporting labour, the importance of supporting the economy through public intervention and economic investment. What do we see from the New Democracy Government? We see it coming to take advantage of pandemic and all these consequences, in order to dismantle industrial relations, in order to implement the immunity of the herd and whoever holds it, namely the strong and strong in the economy. We see bills coming throughout the pandemic, like the bill that was against the environment, euphemistically environmentally. We see privatisation progressing in strategic areas of the economy, such as energy, and we saw Mr. Hatzidakis talking about water and the EEAS a few days ago. And of course, Minister, we have also seen you in the middle of a pandemic bring in a bill for education suddenly, without social dialogue, without any prior scientific study we have asked you to bring us to the House. Of course, the bill we are debating today is a sequence, following on from all the interventions and arrangements brought by the Government of New Democracy and the Ministry of Education since the next election in July. Why have we seen all these months? We have seen from summer, with the first amendments, again without any dialogue, the abolition of university asylum. We have then seen the suspension of the operation and the start of thirty-seven departments in the country's higher education institutions, particularly in the region. We have seen the abolition of the two-year free school provided by the SYRIZA government for the PES graduates. We saw the equation of the LEI degrees with private colleges. We have seen, despite the announcements, that permanent recruitment should not go any further - to remind you that the SYRIZA government had planned and guaranteed funding for fifteen thousand recruitments - and even the five thousand special treatments should go too slowly. Of course, this bill also came in that same direction. We told you, Minister, at the meetings of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media that by presenting this draft law you were also politically and socially disfellowshipped and isolated as government. This appeared, first of all, here in plenary, where no opposition party supports this draft law, but only the majority party of the New Democracy. And, of course, it appeared from the reaction of the educational community and the educational movement, even under conditions of pandemic, that today had a concentration and strike, but also from the presence of the bodies, where all the institutions were opposed, except those representing private education and training. What, then, are the characteristics of this draft law? First of all, it's a conservative backwards. This is clear and seems in too many ways. It seems, first of all, - there has also been a special debate on this previously - by abolishing the sociology course, while you come here and say that your aim is to develop critical thinking through the regulations. This is the first characteristic example. We told you and colleagues in the Communist Party that you could have both lessons. The Latin class and sociology don't go against it. Second point of conservative retreat, retreat in the graduations of the high school of conduct. Indeed, Minister, it has come - and we are not only saying so because we are oppositioning you - the report by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which, in fact, and with many arguments, states that this choice of you is contrary to the case law of the Council of State...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u66	Contrary to what he says?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u67	I'm telling you exactly what he's saying. He's criticizing...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u68	Does it say yes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u69	He's criticizing, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u70	Contrast?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u71	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u72	Does it say yes? Please read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u73	So it says, Minister, that the Scientific Committee of the Parliament - in its own language, the legal language, but it is clear that it criticises you, because we can and do very clearly what the report says - that the draft law comes and raises issues in case-law, but of course - and there it speaks clearly of opposition - and the decisions and principles of the Privacy Authority. So that is clear and well recorded and you insist. The same conservative direction is that you abolished the thematic weeks and you come to say about some pilot actions that you are going to take, while the thematic weeks were of course something that was very important and necessary for the whole public school. At the same time, the bill you bring is a bill that has a specific direction that does not support the public school. And because, Minister, you have already wondered about my position, I answered what you said about the period of Ms Diamantopoulou's Ministry that no law is passive, all is tested, all is judged, except that you know that I had separated my position with that government, Papademos government in 2012. In any case, however, if someone first violated the principles that you say about the Diamantopoulou Act, I would remind you that it was your Minister, Mr Arvanitopoulos, and of course it had to do with highlighting and archiving the higher education institutions, and I shall also refer to this. So you don't support the public school. You say the public school is a social mobility body. That is correct, and I will also say democratic consciousness and social progress. And you wondered and said, sceptically, that SYRIZA wants or want equality downwards. Minister, we want equality upwards, we want equality that really reduces social inequality, actually gives the same opportunities to all children, but at the same time also has positive action where it needs to be done, namely positive action, and as far as you have not spoken, about SMEs, about children with special skills and needs, as of course - and here is an absolute classicity on your part - the issue of the ESDP. Because you may have said today that you will bring in a bill, which we must see what it will include, but, in the original draft as published in this draft law, you have again had provisions that were classic and restrictive, age-limiting, for children who could attend vocational training. That's the reality. From that point on, bring the matter bank back. You come and you do a continuous multiplication of examinations in high school and high school. All Members have told you that in committee. Apart from bringing back an institution such as the bank of subjects, which has been tested and has had a negative effect, but in fact, in this way, you are opening the door for the care centres, for the paradox, for the need for the average Greek family to serve the education and training courses. That's the reality. I'm continuing for all these arrangements you've brought. As far as universities are concerned, there are two points we are criticising. Beyond all the others who have been ahead of us, colleges and all that we've already mentioned. You are again trying to circumvent Article 16 of the Constitution, as you have done with colleges, and you come here on the occasion of - as you say - the extroversion that you wish for universities to bring these foreign language departments. Here, apart from politically creating it and want to form it and institutionalize it, it is clear that you are creating a first step of privatisation and enclosures outside the overall academic structure and function, you will definitely have a legal issue. And here we have told you, leaving open questions and the Report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, as it is clear that your own assurances here are not legally enough, because you know very well that no Greek citizen or foreigner can, according to the arguments that we developed, who is in the middle of education in Greece, that is to say in Greece, be excluded from these schools. So, Minister, you ash in your eyes with your assurances. It is certain that this will not stand on the Council of State. But you are going further than that, with regard to the promotion of the Republican authorities, of the institutions of the universities. And there, you come with a provision that cuts out a large part of the university community from participating in these elections, squeeze the prosthetic body. So here you come to universality, in terms of voting, and at the same time in terms of compulsory electronic voting, it is clear that you are moving towards a system that is diabetic, a system in which it is not only that there is an anguish of diabeticness, but in practice you are giving the opportunity to create customer relations within the university community itself. Minister - we will also, of course, come back to the debate tomorrow in the debate - but it is clear that this bill we are voting against. It runs counter to all the need for our educational process today, contrary to the social need, is contrary to the educational community which demonstrates and to all those who are against it. We say that this bill cannot under any circumstances be corrected. It's a bill you have to withdraw, even now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou. Before I summon Mrs. Pappiga, I'll make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Social Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Definition of the amendment from 21-5-2020 to the 3-6-2019 Individual Donation Convention for its work by 6-9-18 Donation Convention between the Foundation "Supports Foundation Stavros S. Niarchos" and the Greek State for the strengthening and upgrading of infrastructure in the field of health, which was ratified by n. 4564/2018 (A'170) and other provisions for patient aerospace. By the time Mrs Papayannakis came up in Stepma, I wanted to propose - for the list of Members to be a little further - if the Members of Parliament accept it, because I said that, under the Rules of Procedure, anyone who requests the floor should take it, if you want to go to a solution between two Members of Parliament to have two Members involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u75	I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u76	Yeah, if there's no unanimity, it can't be. You agree, others don't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u77	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u78	No one disagrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, if I give up my position, given that the leader of my party will speak, I will lose half my time I cannot do that. He said at 3 p.m. he said that the leader of our party will speak. It's after 14:00. If they speak, I will speak only six to seven minutes and it is not equal to the other Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u80	All right, there's a refusal and we're making regular progress under the Rules of Procedure. There is a refusal, even one, I cannot change the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Papariga, I'm sorry for the delay, but you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u81	If I remember - and I think I remember - especially since Greece's accession to EMU, prepared for its transition to the European Union, and especially the period of preparation, adaptation, in any case, in the decisions and orders of the European Union and capital in Greece, there is no government service that does not come one, two and three draft laws on education. Perhaps - I have not made this calculation - but it is in the front row, number of bills, either by the announcement that this is a comprehensive educational reform, whether it is upgrading or adapting, etc. Although the Association of Greek Industrialists and the other capitalists complains that developments in education - the "reforms" say them, we introduce these reforms or, without - they are capitalist reforms. These reforms are normal to be slow. The urgent needs of the economy first appear, the tendencies of the capitalist economy, and it is very natural for education to come after. But all the reforms, regardless of what they had, what verbalism they had or anachronistic, all of them went further forward, deepened the class character of education. Even when there were anachronisms, reforms went ahead with the aim of creating a productive and scientific potential that will serve and ensure the even greater profitability of capital and subjection or even consensus with sovereign ideology and dominating policy. Because, at least since yesterday, following the committee and today, I have heard about the challenges of the times, the needs of the times, the importance of the knowledge society, digital transformation, the explosion of technology, etc., which are, of course, objective events, are not inventions, I have heard too many, progressive words or prophesying, I want to remind you of a few things, because often the reason is weakened by its real class content. First of all, these challenges of the time, the urgent needs that go ahead with the expression of knowledge and the importance of technology, the digital economy, teleworking, telecommunications, etc., all represent the same needs between capitalists - so to speak - and children, working class and other poor people's strata? Are they causing exactly the same needs? They cause needs, yes, that are in radical, vertical confrontation and uncompromising. This bill takes a step in this. There's gonna be more to come. To say about the progressive nature of certain changes that SYRIZA usually has, indeed, some of the peaks that SYRIZA has against the New Democracy bill are quite right. We also have them for the theme bank and for a number of other issues - not to repeat them - Latin, Sociology, School Standards, etc. Unfortunately, these do not necessitate the class character of deep - minded education. So let me just say one example. At the beginning of the 20th century, even before the Communist Party of Greece was founded, it launched an important movement in favour of the establishment of the municipal language. Was that a single movement? Leaders, leading figures of this movement, scientists, intellectuals, etc. Did they have the same goal? A portion of the intellectuals wanted to establish the primary language, because it understood that this language, alienated from the people, that archaic, the people could not understand it. He couldn't understand their ideas, he couldn't approach them. There was, of course, the other part, which, from an entirely different really progressive and radical perspective, claimed the municipal language. I say this and I bring it to the 20th century, because throughout the 20th and 21st century certain things appear "these are progress, these are anachronism". Or should I say another example. The fact is that in the years of postpopulation, and particularly in the 1980s, the number of children in the working class, the poor farmer, was multiplied, who went through to the university. We don't miss what parents paid out of their pockets, of course. Indeed, it doubled - the number of people who entered universities has doubled. Has the class character of education been reviewed? It was neither financially nor in its contents. And ultimately, some changes that are made, which may objectively seem progressive or can be exploited by the popular movement - and not in general individually from each other - are evolving in favour of the system. Because in the 1980s, for example, and in the 1970s, they needed a more educated workforce to raise productivity. When manual work retreates and goes through automation, then higher meditation, at that time, within the productive process - and not only - in services and elsewhere, they cannot have workers who have finished primary school and who only know how to work manually. Such changes and modernisations take place and will take place very long over the next few years. But the working people's movement must interpret them - an important part of it interprets it, not all - correctly. For example, we have heard - and I was very impressed, Mr Phile - from a SYRIZA MEP - nor have I retained his name nor do I care - that sociology is abolished, because sociology is developing progressive thought. Really? Sociology generally, do social sciences generally give birth to progressive thinking? So, is there no sociology that moves into anti-linguistic, anti-scientific and irrational traits? Sociology generally disciplines? Depends on what writing it is, who wrote it, in what content and orientation it needs. We have now reached the point where we are talking about self-worth, about things that are uncut from reality. I don't think the government's attitude to sociology is that... Because it has the potential to make writings - as they are made - historically, philosophically, sociologically, which are reactionary, free of reactionary ideas, the disarmaments of the past, but diligently even more reactionary. It is also no accident at all - if I recall well - that most of the numerical reforms, draft laws - use the term'reforms', but are reforms which support the capitalist system - concern the 12-year-old school and are expanding - not now, but an extension is made - by the Minister, by the government, today and in the kindergarten. Why do most of the changes in middle education take place? Not that there have been no reactionary changes in higher education. Remind the latest laws on the government of SYRIZA, the so-called subordination of TEIs or the diversification of schools, etc. But 12-year-old education includes those ages - pre-adolescents, adolescents - where children are now starting, under and through a number of factors that affect both school, from the education movement, from the parent, from the social environment, but also from the nature of their age, all children start to ask questions, to have anxiety and questions, if you like, who touch the search for world-class opinions. That's not gonna be the kindergarten or elementary child. And right now, at this level of education, particularly in high school and in high school and in primary school, there is an attempt to halt this process, which is normal. It starts from the new generation, it acts - I repeat - the environment, the level of struggle, the international level of struggle, etc. The contents of the school programs, which my colleague Yiannis the Delis analysed extremely, are coming - I do not want to repeat what he said - just to encapsulate the minds and thoughts of that age and to break a barrier, no radical explosion in the universities: education produces half-worked, half-carried, with half-wages. We want a skilled worker - skills have been analysed by both party speakers, I do not want to repeat them - who will be able to change their profession quickly, move from one another to another. Rightness, however, is an experience, no matter how we do it. We are not opposed to a new man being qualified for a certain profession. However, the overall perception of knowledge is now ahead of us, if that is something that objectively arises. We don't define it. Objectively, the need for global knowledge arises and only then can you gain specialization. And not just. It is the need for knowledge that helps you to make generalizations and reach creative abstract thinking and not to have in your mind cans and protocols, such as the various protocols of chemotherapy or other diseases. As for teleworking, here you are preparing for teleworking. Telework means more intensive booming with tire hours, lengthening working time, losing the limits between private and professional life, exacerbating the health and safety of the worker, while transferring individual responsibility for equipment, etc. I will not take the matter - it is not the time to develop it - for personal data, alienation and isolation. Are we against digitisation, with new technologies? We're not against it at all. They must also become part of the education process. And not learning, we're talking about education. But this is the opposite: Subjugation of learning and any education is provided in the mode of operation and needs - to say it clearly - of the Internet. Instead of exploiting the Internet in education, it becomes the opposite. Madam Minister, I will ask you to do this. Do a study of the general phenomenon of linguistic poverty. Linguistic poverty means 'I have no thought'. It is not 'I have no say'. And he says it's the line. Whoever makes good lines is nice to talk. You want to learn English at kindergarten. It was explained by the party's parliamentary group why not. Let's explain. When we say the kids learn the language they should know by going out of high school, what do we mean? What do we mean 'language'? The millennium vocabulary of the two thousand words to serve the needs of the internet language and computers? Or do we mean that someone can read comfortable literary book, not just walk on the beach and contact tourists? And that is what we need, international communication. But it needs to be able to read literature, read poetry, know language. When we have this linguistic poverty in Greece, which also appears to the graduates of the university, are you now saying that modernisation is English in kindergarten? Make a commission and call scientists. Linguistic poverty is admitted by everyone, whether they vote for one party or vote for the other. I would say as a criterion where education is going to Greece just take this and finally. I'm ending up with this. The class school is not only judged by how many children get into universities from the working folk mattresses. Now, as the university differentiates, there will be open university gates to enter poor populaces. And the children of the upper middle and urban classes will enter, if they study in Greece, although that doesn't matter. At least it doesn't matter to me. Make the social composition of universities and you'll see the categorization. The bourgeois children at which schools are the most? As a rule. I'm not speaking exclusively. You'll see a variety in all schools. The poor kids at which schools are they going? The class barriers deepen and go for full autonomy in the years to come - I hope the working people's movement will not allow it - school and university. The university will determine how many will get in, which lessons, autonomous and differentiated. And let the Minister for the Interior deny that there is no such thought in a headline newspaper. That's where we're going. We therefore vote against the bill, not only because we disagree with it in itself, but because it is a bill that opens the way for new laws. And confrontation of progress - maintenance, liberal - left etc., is a purely superficial confrontation, when you all support a training that serves the needs of productivity, competitiveness, etc., of the capitalist market.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Pappiga. I call on the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Harry Castanides. Mr. Castanides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome the only essentials which have been heard up to now and which have been delivered by the former Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Greece, Ms Papagiga, in particular those which she has spoken about language poverty. And I'm going to do this a little later on, also with the famous skills or skill workshops and the introduction of the English course in kindergarten. I had no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that the current Minister for Education, like the majority party, would characterise the draft law as a reform bill. He told us about six packages of reforms. According to an unexplored duty of destiny, the latter always renders the status of reformer at times of many Ministers for Education, even when what is being proposed is at the limit of micro-dispositions or non-logy. Here we are now. Major educational reforms were to be seen, Minister, as great teachers, leading in the kind of educational reforms that were recommended at critical times. To tell you with historical examples, the great reform of George Papandreou had Evangelos Papanouchos behind it in the predatory era. Critical reform operations during the post-multiple course were linked to great teachers, from Kakritdis to the late Christos Tsolakis. I would like you to name me for your reform aims and packages what great pedagogics are hiding behind what you call the'reform project'. First of all, the title: 'Student Upgrade'. I would like to ask you very much to tell me which school you want. When I want to make a reform, I have an overall understanding of the educational system. What is the lawmaker's pedagogical philosophy, what kind of school do we want? I listened carefully to Mrs. Keramea. He said he wants a school better, vigilant, which provides more global knowledge. Meaning? These are aggressive characterizations, it's not a substance. He said: "I want a school of knowledge provision." I would tell you, Minister, that I want a school of knowledge discovery. There's a huge difference between the two and it's a matter of pedagogical philosophy. The discovery of knowledge suits children. The 'child' is a word - derivative from playing. In other words, the educational system must give the child the ability to search behind the "curtains" truth and knowledge. The school has nothing to do with this. Neither what's there, nor what you're supposed to suggest. Because I don't know what you're suggesting. You regulate the issues of the timetable in compulsory education, primary and secondary. So what? Time limits, i.e. the small divisions I mentioned. What school we want, apart from pedagogical philosophy, depends on three basic things: The first is the detailed programs that are in schools. The detailed programme defines what is the objective of each lesson, what are the methods of teaching to teach, in accordance with the objectives it has set, and at the end, the evaluation of the results. The second concerns the teacher, which we want, who is the teacher we want? Are you responding anywhere so far who's the teacher we want? Because the teacher has to play the role of a match, what "lifts" over the child's head, so that the "flammable material" can come to life and seek the truth. Which teacher do you want? Is there even one of your arrangements for the training of teachers? There is. You are also abolishing the Educational Training Centre, which was introduced as an institution in 1997, and the competences go to the Institute of Education Policy, which is controlled by the Minister of Education. This, and the Institute for Educational Policy, is responsible for everything. The third is what kind of evaluation you're doing. That's what I'm going to come back to. When you want to talk about an upgrade of the school you need to specify which school you want: Pedagogical philosophy, detailed programs, what kind of educational we want and the evaluation of the educational and educational work. Now, enter the kindergartens to enter English. I must remind you that, already in kindergarten, primary and secondary education, there is a special area in which one can choose - kindergarten or school - the English language can be taught. It was right, therefore, to point out that it is advisable to deal first with the issue of lexia in our country, a language code which is constantly limited, because restricting the language code is a restriction on our perception of the world. To use a well-known version of Vitgenstein, "the limits of my language are the limits of my world." Instead of suggesting the English - I assume that the arrangement you are introducing is not related to the qualifications of members of the Ministry of Education's leadership - try to be inspired by the Vitgenstein doctrine, and redesign language teaching throughout compulsory education. "The limits of my world are the limits of my language." What is the world and how is all its wealth represented in human consciousness? This is the guide to our actions. And you know, the teaching departments of the country are opposite. Introduce skills and skill workshops as a major reform. Skills - says the text of the law - about life, about science, about technology. Meaning? First of all, the term'soft skills' is used mainly for vocational education and training, not for general education. However, if we make a reduction to the English term "skills" - it is the translation of soft skills -, mild skills are mainly to cultivate the potential to interact with our environment on issues such as team spirit, business spirit, cooperation, passion, leadership, innovation. I would like you to explain to me - from what you said I did not understand at least - what skills you are proposing to have in the flexibility area of primary and secondary education. I'd be grateful. Because I followed your logic when the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman spoke, and you asked whether he would say contrary to your conduct, regulation, the Scientific Council. I estimate you're an intelligent reader. Of course it is against, the Scientific Council of the Parliament in your regulation. Evidently opposite! But that is not your concern, because constitutional matters, compliance with legality is not always a governmental priority. However, since reintroduction to the dismissal of titles and to the examples of promotion of conduct, I conclude, Minister, that if there were any chance that the "tunnel court" might relive in these days, or even if we took a step backwards to the "tunnel court", it is certain that you and your Government would not come as a witness to the defense of Cristidy, but are fully associated with iron discipline and iron spirit of Exarchopoulos. So we are not talking about the school we do not want to talk about is in the detailed programmes. We're doing some timeline arrangements. We don't say what mild skills are. We don't define which teacher we want. We bring the conduct back and one would expect there to be a reformer in the experimental and standard schools. According to the author of the bill, the model schools want them for the conquest and dissemination of excellence, and the experimental schools for the introduction and dissemination of educational innovation. However, if you see what experimental schools are being baptized, you will find that in current educational practice experimental schools and standards schools are where there are Philosophy Schools: Thessaloniki, Athens, Yannina, we got lost by Rhodes and a little in Patras. I would expect that for standards and experimental schools, since it is the condensation of excellence on the one hand and the condensation of innovation on the other hand, you would not just bring about an interest per educational region, but you would take measures to create standards and experimental schools and in the prefectures that have never existed or have been specific social or national categories, in Thrace, in Kastoria, in Messinia, in an island remote. No predictions! The only provision, very specific, is the composition of the Management Committee of Standards and Experimental Schools. The Management Committee for Standards and Experimental Schools is fully controlled by the Minister. This is where I have to recognise her a fair one. It reproduces earlier provisions in which the administrative bodies, the supervisory authorities of experimental and model schools, were usually people who were selected by the Minister of Education. Interestingly, not only is the Management Committee of Standard and Experimental Schools controlled by the Minister, but it also controls the Scientific Committees for Musical Schools and Sports Schools. Even there is absolute control over government-appointed. Also, Mr President, I am thinking of evaluation. Has it not given you the impression that the Minister is suggesting two - in introductory terms - 'assessments'? It recommends the evaluation of educational and educational work with regard to standards and experimental schools. As far as the rest of the education is concerned, however, it only speaks of the evaluation of the educational project. What is the evaluation of the educational project? The planning of actions of educational activities at the beginning of the year and the balance sheet of the end. This is the self-assessment, the internal evaluation of the school unit. And it defines as an external evaluation essentially the involvement of the MAGP, i.e. the training coordinators. Madam Minister, external evaluation is everything that creates a mechanism or body of assessors outside the educational process. What is proposed is an internal evaluation, just does it by the coordinator of the training project. You do not regulate anything about the system of assessment throughout the whole education, the rest of education other than experimental and model schools, and I wonder what your faith is, how you imagine it. In order to make it easier for you, because I know you're going back near the logic of Iarchopoulou, I would tell you that three principles should govern the evaluation. Principle one. When I form an evaluation system, I must first have as a state ensure that all conditions are ensured so that the teacher can work and perform according to the programme. Are we ready to say that we have the necessary infrastructure as a state? If not, then we should also give the teachers the opportunity to assess the State and the Ministry of Education, but with concrete consequences. Second beginning. I don't want the evaluation to punish the teacher. I want her to upgrade him to feed back his pedagogical capacity. That's why I want an evaluation of the teacher. However, this requires a broad educational policy. Tell me about it. Regional training centres have been abolished. You are now abolishing the national centre of training. Do you have introductory training, do you have periodic training? Are you willing to enter into the future, I don't know when, such institutions? Third beginning. When I choose internal or external evaluation mechanisms, I choose them in such a way that there is no doubt about the objectivity of their choice because if I have not ensured evaluation as their own faith in teachers and society then its implementation will be accompanied by problems. Finally, Mr President, I should like to refer to the foreign-language programmes and the elections of the Republican authorities. The Minister suggests election of rectoral authorities before 2011. In other words, the extension of the lists, in which the dean and the counter-routes take part, are back, while the regulation with Law 4009 was different, followed by legislation providing for a different vote on the counter-routes, so that there would be a diffusion of political preferences. From the body of diligents we exclude people who participate and offer in the educational process. I'm talking about special scientific staff, about the EDPS, laboratory teaching staff, about the EIF. Why do we exclude them? What's the point? It's not a body of the academic body? Even with Law 4009 on the board of each University, a student representative participated. As far as foreign language programmes are concerned, Mrs Kerameus, I am pleased to tell you that you will be able to see the matter of foreign language programmes again, because you will soon be in constitutional cancellations. I'll explain why. You say in your regulation that foreign languages are reserved for citizens of the European Union or nationals of third countries. Yes, sir. The International University of Thessaloniki, when he started his postgraduate studies, started them in the same way, that they were directed at foreign nationals. Currently in the postgraduate programs of the International University of Thessaloniki participated by 99% Greek. Secondly, if you exclude Greeks from foreign-language programmes, even citizens of the European Union, that you are violating the principle of equality. If you join the Greeks in the foreign language programs, they will tell you that you are in breach of Article 16 of the Constitution. I would suggest that you think about it, because we need not go back to amendments to the table. For your information, there are your colleagues who have so far amended their laws three times in six months. So because this is not the principle of good legislation, for which you are taking away what you have legislated, I would ask you to rethink the foreign language programmes. In other words, you realise that the reforms are micro-educational. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, may I comment on two, three points?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u85	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, I would like to comment on two, three points first of all in terms of evaluation. We have made it clear that, as we have said in the election, we are first moving on with the evaluation of educational work and a school unit and then moving on with the evaluation of teachers, which has already been launched. As far as external evaluation is concerned, you will allow me to point out that it is not only for coordinators, but it is also for the IPPC, which is the beginning for the certification of the quality of secondary education and the Institute for Education Policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u87	Are these the final recipients?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u88	Secondly, with regard to the elections of the Republican authorities and your comment on why this is changing, I can tell you that it is changing for the following reason: arrhythmias, dysfunctions, when, for example, a regent did not sign the university budget. Nobody's ever talked about party parties. No way! And I think we are wrong, if you like, in the sense that this is a completely separate situation here. We are talking about the well-functioning of the university and how we can ensure it. Mr President, I would also like to comment on an amendment from the Ministry of Education, which has been tabled by a general number of 345 and a special number of 18, which concerns various issues. First of all, it concerns the extension of the teaching year and the extension of the contracts of assistant teachers, given the prolongation of the school year, the extension of the electronic submission procedure for exterior fees, the payment of an external salary to externally seconded teachers and administrative staff for May and June. This amendment also applies exceptionally to the possibility for competent training coordinators to decide in individual countries to extend an operating ban or to reopen certain school units. In addition, it concerns arrangements for the election process by means of an electronic vote for the emergence of monoleagues of academic units, arrangements for the operation of the University of International Programmes of Studies at the International University and the abolition of SYRIZA's photographic amendment with regard to clinical directors. It was an amendment brought by SYRIZA in April 2019, and while for all the relevant institutions of the university it was planned that only those who have a term of office may be candidates, especially for clinics at random, SYRIZA had taken a photographic amendment and separate regulation. We, therefore, make this procedure even more uniform in line with the promotional process of the other institutions. We also support society, entrepreneurship and we introduce an exceptional financial contribution of EUR 700 through the NSRF to the apprentices of IEK and the post-training year of apprenticeship. I would like to end, Mr President, with one, I think, important news. Today the final tables of special education are posted, because we are doing things and not staying in the words. Therefore, the final tables for the 3HA notice of special treatment and for the 4HA notice are being posted, because that is exactly how we support this very sensitive area of special treatment. What we were talking about, we did so, despite the fact that, unfortunately, the Qualified Opposition voted against these recruitments. They are the first intakes to be made in the field of special treatment via ASP, the first ones in the history of the country through ASP and the final tables are posted today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u89	Thank you too, Minister. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliou Villardos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u90	Are you sure, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u91	Look, Mr Villardo, I think this has been explained by the previous ones. I also took the Minutes so long, and indeed I found that Mr Kaklamanis said - if you like, I can read it to you on word - that the first ones will be ahead of each other and that the Minister will then speak. Well, I'm sure. Here, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President, I just wanted to make sure. The bill seems to satisfy some of the government's announcements, particularly as regards school standards as part of the central concept of excellence which obviously wants to monopolize for its voters. It gives the impression, however, that its aim is to ensure better education for fewer people, which reduces the prospects for a country with the highest youth unemployment in the European Union of 39.7%, as we will be tabling in the Minutes, and which will be further increased by the mismanagement of the health crisis. In our view, the most important changes adopted are: firstly, the introduction of English by the kindergarten, as well as the escalation of teaching in primary, together with the adoption of a second language in Articles 2 and 3 of Part One and Chapter One. Secondly, an extension of the institution of models and experimental schools to Articles 10 to 23 of the second chapter. Thirdly, how to elect university authorities without students' organisations and exclusively electronically in Articles 65 to 71 of the second part of the first chapter. Fourthly, foreignlanguage departments at universities in Articles 82 to 95 of Part Two. Some other notable, in our view, provisions contained in the bill relate to the following: First, the reintroduction of the conduct to the dismissal in Article 5. Secondly, the changes to the examinations for higher education institutions in Article 7. Thirdly, the Greek schools abroad in Articles 24 to 32. Fourthly, the advisor of school life in Article 38. Fifthly, measures to prevent intimidation, namely bullying, in Article 39. Finally, the transfer to higher education institutions in Articles 72 to 81. In more detail now on the four main changes, we pointed out the following: English in kindergarten and primary: Apart from the fact that we do not seem reasonable to learn a language from the kindergarten, this is not something that is missing from Greece, since according to data from EUROSTAT - which we will submit later in the Minutes - our country has one of the highest rates of language teaching at 97%, when the average of the European Union is just 59%, while more than 90% of the Greeks know a foreign language again. In addition, there is already software for automatic translation, it is currently widely used for texting, while portable devices are available for easy oral communication. Soon a small device will be implanted or incorporated into the mobile, so it will become relatively unnecessary to learn foreign languages. If other materials are added to the students, they will have fewer hours of attendance for the rest of the courses, and additional care may be necessary. We note that care centres are a major wound of Greece at least for the weaker incomes, but there are not at all in Germany. It is essentially an extra tax on Greeks, such as health, while we pay more generally for lower-level services. These problems should be addressed by the government in the state of our economy, not by such excesses. Based now on the well-known PISA competition, which the Minister has mentioned, and even though it is questioned, it has emerged that Greece is considerably lags behind the other OECD countries in understanding text and mathematics, as we will also be tabling in the Minutes, that is, in the key areas of the future, in critical thinking and in positive sciences, with which the bill does not really deal at all. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Finally, since Greece has become Germany's debt colony in order to turn Greeks into its wardrobes, into its own businesses and hotels, since Great Britain left the European Union, since most Greeks are migrating to Germany and most tourists are already German, especially at this time, we wonder how the government, clearly German-friendly, did not choose German as a basic foreign language, which we believe will happen very soon. Models for experimental schools: These schools were in the 20th page of the New Democracy. Based on the study of PISA 'internationalism', the public schools had a lower performance than private schools with a degree of 452 compared with 520, while rural schools were more efficient than those in urban areas, as we will also testify in the Minutes. In addition, the first and second generation immigrants were of grades 404 and 424, respectively, when the natives had 464, and we have one of the lowest percentages of masters from disadvantaged conditions. So these are the problems we should be dealing with, stressing that we are in favour of the Greek-centered education which is considered by the best internationally. Finally, the cost for these schools is not recorded in the report by the General Accounting Office of the State, as is usually the case, which we consider to be totally unacceptable, as is the case at present. However, it is referred to in Article 47 that there will be an additional cost of EUR 48 million for 2020 and EUR 62 million for 2021, which will cover the costs of substitutes and salaries. Does this cost relate to the transfer to standards of the best public professors, as concluded by Article 19, and to the needs that will arise or to other needs that exist in general? However, it is outrageous that these needs should be met by the Public Investment Programme, in accordance with Article 47, as seen in many other cases, since the purpose of the Public Investment Programme is not to meet budgetary needs, but to support growth, how much more so when it has already been reduced to EUR 6,75 billion in the 2020 budget, with the EUR 750 million from the national strand, when before the crisis it was almost EUR 10 billion every year, as we will present in the Minutes. It's literally a crime. How to elect university authorities: In Article 70, the electoral process with combinations is part of the rectorial elections, the Republican Council and the Senate, i.e. the mighty of the Republican authority, weakening the democraticity of higher education institutions. In other words, while we are doing our utmost to ensure that there is no party party party party party party, we are now creating orders to the extremists, which we consider to be unacceptable. Foreign-language departments at universities: This is where the impression of running parallel private universities is given, but without being allowed to go through with the change of constitution, some hybrids under state control. We have advocated private education, among other things because it would significantly increase our state's revenue. We do not like such tricks, however. You are not now describing how students will be introduced. At the time foreign students enter the universities, the benefits for a residence permit under Article 94, for insurance cover under Article 92 and for a support unit under Article 93, to the detriment of the Greek State. Therefore, it may be destroyed for the entry of immigrants, as is the case with African so-called students in occupied Cyprus. In addition, our country already has an international university with forty thousand students, as we will testify in the Minutes. Isn't that right? However, the estimated cost from the General Accounting Office of the State does not appear here either, so of course no one can accept it. In some of the other articles in the bill, I will say the following: Foreign Schools. It is something that we need to be very careful about, especially now with the outbreak of Brain Drain. This generation of Greeks that we have persecuted should not be alienated - it would be unfair - and it is obviously beneficial to the children concerned, although there is a pressure to integrate them into the respective local educational and professional context. In this regard, we are concerned about the conversion of foreign schools into bilingual schools in accordance with Article 32, with particular reference to Germany, which is the most populous host country today, but above all about the way it is going to take place, as well as about whether it will maintain the Greek character. I note here the most serious issue with the cancellation of the Greek school of Munich. We'll testify to the Practical Writing Reports. On the other hand, there are schools in America, for example, in New York and Miami, which mainly have non-Greek students - usually from minorities - because they provide better education from other public authorities, while the Greeks go either in private or in other areas where they have moved. We must be concerned about how this situation will be supported by the bankrupt Greek state and whether it is on what terms. In other words, we support the existence of parts regardless of the minimum limit for forty students, where there is interest, as well as the use of natural Internet. Also, with regard to Article 31 on the staffing of the coordinator offices, when there are deficiencies in schools elsewhere, we do not know what needs are in secretarial or other support, what work they produce and whether they are controlled or controlled. Adviser to school life under Article 38. This is an imported concept from America or from other countries. The institution of the school counsellor in the United States is considered quite knot. It was introduced in the 1920s as a kind of progression, determination of social trends, preparation for entry into the labour market, and even for choosing soldiers in World War II. In later years, the American School Council Association focuses on improving the education of minorities and the performance of schools, but with controversial results. As usual we adopt something after a hundred years and when it has stopped to have the benefit it had at first. In Greece, it would only be necessary for advice on the professional career of young people, although the most important is job creation. Finally, treatment of intimidation, bullying in Article 39. This is a very vague and generalistic article. This is a very serious issue and, unfortunately, it has been dealt with very much so far. The article does not even describe any decision-making process, so it seems clear that no expert has been asked on the matter, as Mr Kastanides rightly pointed out for other things. It is therefore in the right direction, but with too many gaps, such as the specific measures to be taken. In conclusion, I should like to say that there are several positive articles, such as the bank of classified issues, the evaluation of educational or educational work and the evaluation of teachers at school level. But there are also too many negative ones, but most of them are indifferent, which means that even if we wanted to, it would be very difficult to vote in favour of the bill, which we will naturally vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u93	And we thank Mr. Villardo. Mr Claus Gregoriadis, Parliamentary Representative of Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, our land is really spherical, and it turns around the sun and its axis, which sun and earth are, of course, in a tiny solar system, which has its place at the end, in the escalation of a small, we must say, about other galaxies of galaxy and all this system is in a not- and certainly uncomfortable universe, which is probably not the only one in this world? So, is our Earth a tiny part of all this system that I have just described or on the contrary is completely square and is it, of course, the center of this world and of the universe, but also of all the world, creation, and if anyone enters into temptation, the bold process to approach its edge, in danger of falling and being lost forever in chaos that is lurking underneath? It's just a dilemma. It is: science, Galilee, or Inquisition. Now man. The man, ladies and gentlemen, is the last link in an evolutionary chain, which has led to this planet of such experiments - why, of course, other planets of other solar systems, other galaxies will be experimented - all these evolutionary experiments, the evolution of species, the last representative of the superiors, the leading vertebrates? Is this the man, or is he simply the first kind that the mighty gentleman and God made with his own hands? I mean, any god, any religion of this world? Darwin or Sacred Examination. Conservatives should understand that all conservatives had, have and will have a serious problem. In fact, I started my speech because I think that this is the only real dilemma in a series of thoughts that can be made about the cultivation, education, education and education systems of this world. The only real dilemma - everything else is false - in my opinion, as in politics, is one and simple: progress or maintenance. The Inquisition has persistently and admirablely taken care of our progress, the progress of mankind back for centuries. The question is whether we will continue in this direction. I think - to relate to this bill as well - that you really have a problem as a government because this bill is deeply conservative. It regains conservative things that we have forgotten and we hoped that those who might have been able to rule this place will have been forgotten by all. Such a very conservative thing, of course - not to waste time, and the little children still know - is conduct. And I ask you directly and let anyone who wants from the Prime Minister, the Minister until any Member speaks after me. Is it seriously argument that it forms consciences, that it is pedagogical to stack a man for the rest of his life in his absolute with a ‘world’ or ‘world’ conduct? You know well - most of you are educated, cultivated people - that a man is eighteen years old is a teenager, he is not even a transfusal, he is in the era that he is entitled to "illegal" not to say that it is necessary, that it is a sign of good mental equilibrium to play with the limits set by the organized society. We've all been teenagers and we know what I mean. If a person who is a grown-up person remains in this way, then we have a problem and clearly should accept help going on the right path. But is it pedagogical to criminalize this age, to accompany the teenager in this way for the rest of his life? Mr. Latsis - I mention accidentally the name of my favourite oligarch - could be Mr. Vardinoyannis or Mr. Bobolas - when he will ask to take a child today who ends the school, from your ministry, Mrs. Kerame, from this bill and then, as soon as he asks to hire a child he will see in the dismissal: "Event: conduct cosmology". And what will he think? "He didn't want to join the system from his eighteenth, he was one of the different children, not the perfect ones, not the obedients." Of course he won't. So it also recommends injustice, because these people will not be left alone. Whoever broke a glass in his eighteenth will not stay the same in twenty-four. Instead, he may have gone to study at the finest university in Athens or at the best university in London or New York and become a scientist from those who honor us all over the world and who are invited by the prime ministers to take some votes from their giggling. It is obvious, therefore, that the question of conduct is really outrageously retrogressive, as is the matter with the bank of the issues, because when it was implemented too long ago - I will tell you when it was applied, to be specific - in 2014, on 4-7-2014 there is the title of "Kathimerini", which says "one in five stays retrospective in the first year of high school". And, you know, this is the first application of what you bring back. The relocation rate in the 1st grade from 4.5% to that time, that is, last year, was initially ejected to 23.3%. The Ministry of Education was encouraged after all this - you will be noisy too, I fear, after a few months - and made a correction to the method of calculating the average promotional level and thus dropped the amount of relocations to 10% of 16% that had arrived. So you understand that these things, apart from irrational, are terrible drawbacks and I wonder why they are. In this respect, the Minister is also a young man. And really, the conduct? I'm thinking about it and I'm coming to cry and laugh. The conduct? Will our conduct be tormented for a lifetime during our teenage period of life? That's not serious! I appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, of course, of the New Democracy, because you are used to be called 'the Conservatives'. Sometimes this is unfair, but your choices in too many things are more conservative than us on the Left. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry for this barbaric municipality, I have not had another word now - so do you know the basic problem of capitalism and, in particular, neoliberalism in general with education? One will tell me that education wakes up masses. Okay, that's really a problem. But the problem is, the real problem is that the unspeakable neoliberalisation of power, of any power, of profit, of money, of the market and, above all, of individualism - of the fact that I am and no one else is and I will scan you all, because I am more 'catch' than you, I am more capable and more ruthless - as I said, are things that young people should not learn at all in an educational system. On the contrary, for exactly the opposite reasons it is necessary that our young fellow men should receive education so that from a very early time, as anyone would say, "on soft nails", realize that these things, namely power, money, profit are not important things, such as all adults who do not have serious knowledge of this life. It's the total, manifestly trivial things. Because important things are different and you all know them, left, centre and right. The important things in this life are love, it's dignity, it's solidarity, it's grouping, our art and our culture as humanity. These are the real important things in this life, unfortunately for you. Sadly, for you, all these important things do not help any human to resent. If you just want to be a loathsome, unfortunately, it's not useful. Also, it's no use when you find someone on the ground to push him further, to go down the ground. Also, it is not useful when it takes sometime literally in your life to step on bodies. Education, culture and education prevents you from stepping on bodies, preventing you. You know, I'm saying all this because the capitalism you're going through, to be precise, not capitalism, but the evil, the inhuman, the outrageous, irrational neoliberalism that I hope only some of you are taking up in this Chamber, so this disgraceful, anti-human neoliberalism defends precisely these concepts, and that is exactly how you go about it when it comes to neoliberalism. When he is led by this ideology he walks by stepping next to him when he finds himself in need, he walks by pointing his boot to every one who is a little shorter than he is and is generally walking by being indestructed on another man. These choices of neoliberalism, apart from ideologically contrary to ours, are anti-humans and let me say that they are also unconscious compared to the previous ones. Do you know why I say them outside this world, all of the world as a whole, of the 'world' as foreigners would say by taking the ancient Greek word? It is in our nature that we are born of good men and women, that we find ourselves in a state of disrepute when we start to get involved with exquisite vague ones. While we're working together, it's our nature, kindness, it's our nature, teamwork, it's our nature to share our goods. We do so in every need, the Greeks have been alienating for decades. When there is a need in Turkey, in the earthquakes, they send out everything they can to feed people there, our 'pre-eternal enemies'. It's in our nature to eventually crush each other. Do you know why it's in our nature? Because, according to Darwin, I hope that no one is questioned in this Chamber - we are a cow animal. As in ants, it's like that in bees, it's in their nature to act as a group, because the universe and the god who formed them, whatever this thing he made them, they know that this is a better functional model for them. Cows are a development of animals living alone. They're doing better in survival. So neoliberalism is pushing the great masses of the people into non-violence. Do you know why kindness is of interest to us, that solidarity is of benefit to us, that love is of benefit to us? It suits us because, as very great Breech said, love is the most direct interest. That is why I claim that you neoliberals, those of you who are neoliberal - I hope that most of you are just pro-capitalists - so I claim that those who are neoliberal in this Chamber, secretly, in depth are against any education and any education and culture, because their plans, the plans of those of you who are neoliberal, are being cancelled. Your plans are off. Unless you imagine that there is a primary, a high school, a high school or a university anywhere in this world, which teaches its students or students the value of the inhuman exploitation of human beings, the value of the usefulness of the complete destruction of the environment in order only to get the already Croatian oligopolysts of this world richer or the value of the usefulness of putting triple feet of a baby, from primary school, constantly to all your classmates and classmates in order to finally cut off as excellent first and only you the thread. Oh, no. You can't imagine any such educational establishment in the world that teaches these values and principles to young people because it was just such an educational institution that there was never in the world. You know, since I was a child, I was tormented by a question: why are the states in art and education allowed to exist? It is clear that these two lead in the long term to the devastation of the states. It is clear that when we get over infancy as humanity, we will not accept having states, we will not accept having any mechanism of repression and oppression for people. It's obvious, and everyone, regardless of ideological position, I think this place, we see when we show the future of humanity, a humanity that won't be needed to get bolts and whips. He will behave collectively, with mutual respect and understanding. It is clear, therefore, that the future of humanity passes through education, culture and art and that the future of humanity will inevitably be left in the sense that right in the Soviet Union had before the existing socialism, which was nothing but left. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr Gregoryde. We will now give the floor to the Minister Niki Kerameou to submit legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be very brief. I'm making legislative improvements to the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u97	We will also give the floor for a minute to the parliamentary representative from SYRIZA, Ms Xinoyannakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Minister earlier - because I expected her to go back to the Chamber to be placed - made a misleading and inaccurate statement in relation to special treatment. Madam Minister, what you said about the situations that went on, even though there was a very long delay. They should normally have been in the autumn already. But I would like to remind you that recruitment in education has had ten years to take place because of memoranda. As soon as we got out of the memoranda, the SYRIZA government launched recruitments to special education, as planned ten thousand permanent teachers for the next two years 2020-2021, incorporated the appropriations for special education in the budget at the time of 2019. In fact - and here I would like to be clear, Mr President - there is no basis for what you say that SYRIZA has voted against its own proposal. Obviously this is a paradox. Perhaps all I can think of is the argument you continue to say that SYRIZA did not vote for the 2020 budget. Is that what you mean, Minister? Because we would like you to clarify that. Where did we vote against the special education credits, which were, after all, our work and our success in finally moving forward? When we voted against a government budget as a whole for its economic policy? So please, Minister, not to make such misleading statements in this House, but to recognise that the SYRIZA government has opened the way for permanent recruitment, when, unfortunately, the Samara government in 2014, in the availability and redundancies, as we know, had two and a half thousand PES teachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u99	I can't avoid it. I will give the floor to the Minister for one minute for an answer - clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think we should all, today and above all parties, recognise the need for education and especially the very sensitive area of special education. Because indeed, both the training staff and the Ministry of Education and the ASAP have worked in extremely difficult circumstances and despite the great adversities to implement this commitment to substantial support through appointments to education and, in particular, special education with the permanent appointment of four and a half thousand special education staff and special educational staff. So today, as we said, the AACC is imminent, the AACC is completing the preparation of these 3EA and 4EA tables. I would like to remind you, I did not intend to do that, that Mr. Friends had spoken with his minister about 20,000 permanent appointments in education. I would like to remind you that Mr Vernardakis was Minister of State in January 2017, if I remember correctly, had said that next week a competition for education is being opened. That is very specific, and I am happy to present it. And what I said is that when we brought the budget - I have said it repeatedly - to a vote that provides for precisely these appointments, SYRIZA chose - his choice - to vote against. So SYRIZA chose to vote against these permanent appointments. I think, however, that we have to point out this today: for the first time in the history of the country there are permanent appointments to special treatment through an APA. It's a sector that's really very sensitive. And we should, over and above parties, recognise this fact, stand up to the circumstances and say that it is important to strengthen this sector in particular by means of actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, I need a minute to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u102	But I would ask you to keep it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u103	I'll keep it completely up to date. Madam Minister, I would expect you to make a positive announcement today that at last the AACC has made this publication not to fall into this micro-policy. Recognize that it was the SYRIZA government that proceeded to these recruitments. And, of course, this paradox is not the case that because we voted against in opposition to the government's economic policy as a whole, we voted against the special education or recruitment provisions. Because then I'll give it back to you. And you in 2018, when you voted against SYRIZA's budget for 2019, also voted against special treatment and "Help at Home". But is that reasonable, Minister? I would expect you to come here today and finally make a positive announcement without a micropolicy against SYRIZA. And I also insist that the recruitment we had started was fifteen...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Friend had said twenty thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u105	Don't give up on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u106	No dialogue. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u107	It was fifteen, which we had jointly approved as Minister for Administrative Reconstruction with Mr Gavroglou. Well, I'd like you not to make this micropolitical and opposition to SYRIZA when you have no reason. Identify the positive at last.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Giannis Varoufakis, President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as in the war, as in educational reform, nothing works as planned by a staff of experts, made up of theorists of war or of educational reform, how much more so when they are politically involved in educational reform. Therapeutic training procedures in this country whenever they have operated therapeutically had taken place after pre-treatment, experimentation on small samples. Papanoutsos had spent decades experimenting with different models and forms of education in at least twenty different schools before he legislated in the 1960s. The reform that is being carried out without such advancement, without the teachers on its part, how much reform is being carried out against the teacher is not reform, it is yet another of the many deregulations that have been presented to this Parliament by a sequence of ministers as reforms. You do, Minister, like the previous ones, as well as Mr Gavroglou before you, like every minister to be fair. You also have a reform in less than a year after your ministerial service. When did you get past the testing process at experimental level in schools, universities, kindergartens of the ideas you bring and you legislate today? For a government that has made the excellent flag, you are bringing us a bill that is only from the ambition to be described as the excellent inspiring of this reform. Mrs Kerameus, it seems that in the area of educational reforms, at least in this area, excellence as a concept does not excite you. You do not think of yourself as a follower or a follower of a Delmuzu, a Papanoutsu, a Dear. You chose to be another minister who is moving on to a reform which, of course, aims - regardless of the objective - is doomed to be deported before the ink on the bill - is dryed, and what you are doing is to legislate on the specific interests expressed in the area of education for your party, by representatives who live in and behave with a nostalgic state of more authoritarian, a state, I would say, of the EPE, not even of the New Democracy, I would say, of Ioannis Rallis. The conduct! One word, I won't say any more. Restoring the conduct there refers. Just by reading the bill and seeing its structure, it is clear that you are distinguished by this appeal to authoritarianism. Everything that is essentially is referred to as ministerial decisions. A simple principle that one does not need to be subversive and conservative - rather, in fact, a serious conservative politician in this principle - would be as simple as this: The more issues of the Ministry of Education depend on ministerial decisions, the worse the educational system, the more authoritarianism abounds the educational process. So you will allow me, before I even deal with the contents of the bill, to say that as far as the reform process that brings you here today is concerned to testify to that particular content, you rank below the base. As much as the political cost to the Prime Minister is, I think, that if Mr Mitsotakis is interested in staying in history as a Prime Minister during whose term there was a serious educational reform, he should withdraw - you will obviously not do so, it is not in your political interest, but it is in the political interest of Mr Mitsotakis - to withdraw this bill at the moment. We in Mera25 envision another reform process. We do not dream when we in the government and our Minister or our Minister are going to pass another reform legislation. We envision a state that, as Minister, does not reform the educational system. This is the idea that we have in Greece, that the Minister of Education is capable or capable of reforming at best, in a few months or at most two years. What is the average term of a Minister of Education in this country? Two years? You can't make it through, Mrs. Kerameou, neither you nor the most enlightened person going through a reform properly tested at the reunion of schools, kindergartens and universities. We envision a state where public education is reformed in real time all the time, not by ministers, schoolchildren, collegelors, not even by elected beetles, deanists and first-grade teachers. A process of controlling and reforming the educational system that will be an estate of society, to put you in the climate of our vision. We are envisioning a national education board consisting of two thirds of the public and a third of the appointed trainees of education. The House has two thirds of the bill. We see one third of them being paid off from the different levels of the education system - kindergartens, teachers, high school teachers - the other hundred public confiscated and the other hundred appointed by us here in Parliament, with alternating terms but continuous monitoring. And this national education board should be a mini-parliament called upon by the ministers, their advisers, the officers of the Officerial Representation, the remaining opposition parties, representatives of teachers, trade unionists, parents, productive classes and being interrogated by the National Educational Council, as far as everyone's proposals are concerned about what needs to be done. This is in the sphere of our own fantasy. It is far away from what has become so many years 'Every minister and an educational reform'. On the contents now, Minister. As in ancient Athens the fans of aristocracy did not suffer for excellence, they suffered for the reproduction of the privileges of the oligarchy, the landlords, the mighty, so you promote the concept of excellence to promote the privileges of the few and even expand them. The excellence you're referring to is the right of the oligarchal class to have an educational system for her own children and another for the other children. Concentrate the return to traditional exam with the promotion of knowledge and culture. It's like we don't live in a country where children traditionally - and my generation - are exterminated in the exams without actually forming them. The difficult exercises of Geometry and Trigonometry, who doesn't remember them? They had their beauty too, of course, but they killed the love of mathematicians in the soul of children. Isn't this the country we grew up in? Is that what we want to bring back? The exam? Do you remember when we studied the syntax of Sophocles Antigen and at the end of the year had not understood anything about the symbolism of Sophocles Antigen? We had to go abroad to understand Sophocles' importance on the global surface of education. I come to the experimental schools, because it is very important that the party's attitude to experimental schools is taken very seriously. Each time you talk about the experimental schools you see, to upgrade them to schools of real excellence, what you actually do, since you promote either the promotion within the experimental or the introduction to experimental by exams, it is to propose the abolition of experimental schools and their conversion to selective schools, selective schools, which will gather students with high degrees. What does that mean? You abandon the concept of experimental school. Because the educational experiment, such as medicine, pharmacology, experimental science in general, requires random samples, draw. Well, because the experimental school without a draw doesn't mean. That is why you are abolishing the schools on which the permanent educational reform should be based. That's why there were experimental schools from Delmuzo. Are you not interested in keeping experimental schools as a tool for educational reform, the selective schools that want to set up what to do? Will they be schools of excellence? In no case. It's for granted. In whichever country you look into the pedagogical literature you will see that the statistical correlation between the student's ability to take twenty-nine and its future potential excellence is zero. For example - I've said it before and you know it - in the United States, Australia and other countries can't get a student from school directly in the medical school, it can't get into the legal school and it's 100%, because you're told you're not mature even that you got 100% in biology, chemistry and others doesn't mean that the ability to have the maximum degree is statistically related to the possibility in the fifty and forty years to be the best doctor in this particular subject. So is legal. So where in other advanced countries, which are more ideologically close to you than to us, you see that we are going against examination, you are bringing them as a reform! Returning to EPE of the 1960s with the conduct and tests that kill the soul of children comes back to this Parliament as something new, new, reformist! If that's possible! Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, be careful long before you put our children in the test procedure from eleven, twelve, thirteen years. Because when you run the tests at 11, you start a double process. On the one hand, what you're doing is putting families in the care process from five to a selective school - which will certainly have a high quality because I'm sure either you or another government will give more resources to such a selective school, where its students gather 20, excellent in score - and automatically the families will push their children into the psychic care process from five to six years ago. And finally, the choice made by children in these selective schools will be an option comparable to the economic and social surface of parents. What's going to go into this selective school isn't gonna be a child, kid. The boy who comes in will be his soul broken. What's coming in will be a family that had economic and social cohesion, surface, so that he can break up the child's soul to get into this school. Wasn't that the whole conversation in Great Britain in the 1960s and 70s that led to the abolition of the Grammar Schools? Of course, Mrs Thatcher has tried to reverse this, as you do. Ladies and gentlemen, what does this bill want? Basic if not the target but certainly its impact will be the fragmentation of the system we have today, a fragmentation reflecting the new class stratification of Greece. There used to be public and private. There were the children of the bourgeoisie who went to Athens College, Moratis and these children whether they went to the Law and Medical School, the two schools in Greece that ensured social mobility, or went abroad. And the rest were the public children, who still had some possibility, if they went well, also get into medicine or law school or some schools. Nowadays, for ten years and you've known it very well, even private have been split into two kinds of schools, in two high-speed schools. The schools that alienate their children and their families from the Greek educational system - I am not saying from the public, but from the Greek education system - around twelve, thirteen, fourteen and fourteen years. Because when you know your child's going to IB in sixteen years, his soul has left the Greek school. He knows he will never graduate from the Greek school, he knows he will never go to a Greek university, because he will have done IB, so you have a ruling class, the majority of which sends children to a foreign school system from thirteen to fourteen years. This has already been naturalized. Now, what you're trying to do through this bill, and the previous one, - I'm sure - is to break the public school between a school of selective, which will give the ruling class a chance to sting from the children who are able to get the first grades, some of them, and prepare them for both the Law and Medical Schools and the other public schools that will be soul storehouses, where they will simply count the time until they become delivers. What you do today, what I see in this bill leads to the conclusion that even if it was not your purpose, your bill is written as if it were this fragmentation, your purpose, of course, being closed to schoolgirls, colleges, institutes, so-called IEKs. Otherwise, why do you put an age limit on the PSAs? Why can't a 20-year-old go to PSA? To go to IKK. Isn't that why?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u110	There's nothing you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u111	Number of students per class. Is it possible to increase the number of students per class? In your own schools, in the schools you send your children, will this happen? I'm talking about private. Obviously, it won't. We are talking about educational choices, which are largely expelled, as we see in your Ministry, from the availability of skills. It's what the British say "supply dream" sale is. Do we have any philosophers? Let's put the Latin class on. Do we have English Philology? Let's push the English more. I am also in favour of Latin and English. I am against a system that is blindly guided by the availability and pressures of some interests. Speaking of English, say a word about English in kindergarten. I would say, unlike many of my left-wing colleagues, that I believe in English in the maternity hospital. Before the child was born English. It is the language, the lingua franca of the global debate about everything from the start. But where are English in kindergarten, Minister? We saw them in the bill. Who's gonna teach in kindergarten? You put it in the bill, you won't put it in kindergarten. I'm not saying you personally, but a number of your predecessors have failed to put them in school. There are hours of English and many. Do children learn English? No, they don't learn the kids English. What do they learn? I don't know. However, what I know is that parents are forced and sent to the school to learn English. Even where you do something, with which I would personally agree, I do not see how you will strengthen it, in order to do so. Do you actually think that there are English in private kindergartens? I very much want you to disprove me. You're not doing this today. You'll do it along the way. Let's see how you support English in public kindergartens. I'm looking forward to seeing what's going on. On the big question of evaluation and training, I should have spoken for too long. I will not, Mr President, do not worry. It's something that for me is the foundation stone of the educational system. I'll make a comment. I've said this before in a previous conversation we had in the earlier bill you'd downloaded. Quantitating values through an evaluation system that only counts indicators is the greatest threat to our educational system. You've heard of the rule of Goodhart. If you don't have him, let me tell you. An excellent indicator that counts something very well, when it becomes a target, ceases to be useful. This is the summary of our criticism of the evaluation, which we have to say a lot more. Finally, as I said before, educational reform against teachers cannot be carried out. The ministers can't do educational reform. Educational reform is made by teachers within the classroom. You, us, have a sacred obligation to strengthen them, to supply them, to upgrade them to the teachers who will teach in the classroom. For as amazing as it is, the twelve gods of Olympus plan your programme and your bill, if there are no teachers out there who will apply it and educate our children, it is a gift of free will. In bad lies, ladies and gentlemen - and I address all of us here - a country in which the introduction to a police school requires multiple molecules of what is needed to introduce the student into a pedagogical academy, into a philosophical school, in a mathematical department, is a society that has a problem. I personally want our officers to have doctorates, as I wanted the infants to know before they were born English. But in a country in which to enter the Security Body in the final analysis requires far more molecules than to enter the Mathematical Department of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, it is a country that has a problem and we must understand that. Of course it makes sense, because he's in trouble. When the wages are on the floor, when someone knows that if he goes to the Police School, he will be appointed immediately, while in our educational system we will trouble him as a political system maybe twenty and twenty-five years as a substitute and then we will be punished to say that if he goes on Saturday, on September 1, we send him to Soufly and say no, then we will punish him from above. Is it possible to have such a percentage of assistant teachers? You talked about appointments before. Let's finish this story with the Deputy Professors. Or, do you want to have some deputy teachers? To know until the end of March where they are appointed for next September and to have two weeks to accept him or not. With what is now happening over a number of decades that last minute people learn and have no idea whether they will be appointed or not, where will they be appointed, so what are you doing? You denounce people who are supposed to implement your reform. Most of them are substitutes, anyway. If not most, too many of them. I referred to Thatcher before. He's pointed out my life, like too many others. Sociology course. Why is this whole Sociology class debate going on? Let me tell you why. Do you remember that Thatcher had ordered Keith Joseph, the Minister of Education, who was her ideological guru, to close the sections of sociology? It was closed four or five. He had tried to shut down the university's sociology department, where I was going to. Why? One reason. There was a specific idea, for which I must tell you I admire Thatcher, because she was the only conservative right-wing politician who dared and said so. He questioned, raising the influences he had from Hayek, from Ozik, from Keith Joseph himself, to his important phrase of questioning the existence of something that could be defined as a social interest, as a society. And he considered that sociology is a science - I personally do not think it is a science, as I do not think it is a science, but that is my problem - which marks a regression to that stream of privatisation, the transition from a large to a small state, etc. I don't know, if you realize it, but your opposition to sociology has its roots there, even if you don't know it. We today as Mera25 know what we're talking about? No sociology or economic theory at school. Strengthen the course of history. The lesson in history as it is in Greece is funny that we are even ending with the Balkan Wars. And it's funny that within a history lesson we haven't included a parallel account of the world's basic social theories, in which we live, capitalism and at the same time economic theories, from Adam Smith and then, a parallel account of how man tries to capture what the market society means, if you don't want to call capitalism, on the one hand, and on the other hand the historical evolution of this beast called capitalism. How did this thing start? How did it turn out? What happened in 1929? Why was the Central Bank previously established? This is what we would like as Mer25, an enhanced lesson in history, without sociology and without economic theories. As far as Latin, the more languages, even dead, learn our children, the better. We do not believe in the competition of languages "if you learn that language, you will not learn the other". But support for teachers who will teach them. Not for students to be punished for Latin, English or Trigonometry lessons. I close by returning to examination, which is nothing but social exclusion. Because, Mrs. Kerame, your children and my own children, because I, too, am privileged, will never suffer the persecution and exclusion that your bills bring you to the base of the score. Because if your own child or my own child gets medium, moderate, we have the possibility of sending it abroad - you are struggling to do the college inside, which has been the case with its corresponding foreign policy. You're only talking about children in popular classes out there, with which you have absolutely no emotional, political, moral relationship. What percentage, ladies and gentlemen, of the ruling class in Greece sends his child to a public school? Let me say it worse: What percentage of the ministers over the last ten years - so that we do not come to party - did he send his children to IB, in other words alienated them from the Greek school? It's not a personal criticism. I might have, too, if my daughter lived in Greece. He's just a social critic. Because a political system whose leaders, political staff, business staff, have been divorced from the Greek educational system, can never carry out educational reform that is not oligarchal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, too. We're going back to the list of speakers. I will give the floor to Mr Christos Taradilis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, I too am going to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u114	Because you're a good man, I'll put on another speaker. I'll give you the floor after Mr. Darkness.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, does the list not apply?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u116	It's true. After Mr. Taradili, it's you. That's what I have in front of me, Mr. Darkness. The speaker of the State of New Democracy, Mr Taradilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, four are the main worthy pillars, according to my view, of course, of this bill. The first worthy pillar is that of excellence. The extent of the arrangements, as well as the increase in school standards, I think that they are indicative of the importance we attach to excellence in upgrading our educational system, a system that, as we have said, gives equal opportunities to all and all, highlights merits and is open to new teaching and learning proposals. Secondly, a worthwhile pillar of this bill is the modernisation of the school, as expressed by the introduction of new themes into the school programme, themes that aim to familiarise our students with human skills - I prefer this term - which are co-operating with analytical thinking and computing and quantitative knowledge so that our students can function and evolve into groups and apply their knowledge to new data and new situations. Human skills such as critical thinking, creative problem-solving, adaptability, communication, cooperation are really these skills that help decisively to exist what we call global - and is not just an expression - the development of the personality of our students. The same purpose, a modern school, which develops basic skills of our students in a cross-border, intercultural and digital environment, serves the pilot application of the creative instruction of English in kindergarten, the increase in hours in the first grades of primary school, as well as the emphasis on informatics. The third aesthetic pillar of the bill is evaluation. As we have said, the objective of evaluation in this bill is twofold. The first objective is to assess - and we all know that - the prerequisite for democracy, which we very well know is an active demand for society and for our policy. On the other hand, the evaluation in this draft law is certainly being used to improve the continuous improvement and quality of our educational system. Indicatively, the evaluation - as we know from this draft bill - is reinforced, according to the dual system of internal evaluation of all educational units. It is also noteworthy that something similar is done in standards and experimental schools. In the same direction of strengthening evaluation, this time of students, what we call the reintroduction of the themes bank, through which the conditions of transparency and objectivity are ensured, as well as an equal measure of crisis in the examination system for both public school pupils and private school students, are guaranteed. As part of the service of merit, I would say that this additional academic criterion for student transfer depends on the molecules collected by the student candidate in Greece. This should under no circumstances be less than two thousand seven hundred molecules in relation to the basis of the section he wants to relocate. And speaking of transcripts, it really is an innovative element, what we call second-cycle transcripts, which the student now has, the student candidate, can move to another part of the same scientific field. Fourth pillar is extroversion. Extroversion seeks to be standards and experimental schools in order to ensure the dissemination of best educational practices across the educational fabric. What do you say? Collaborations with universities in Greek, with foreign universities. We are talking about partnerships with public institutions and research centres. Creation of groups with various objects, in which students from other public schools will also be able to participate. They are certainly extroversion practices that create fertile interfaces between school communities in places outside the school’s traditional space. The aim is also to promote foreign-language curriculum cooperation with the International University, which has so far worked fairly restrictively, and I would say, as well as not requiring the signature of a minister, in practice, not in theory, that we are strengthening the self-government of universities by blocking and minimising reasonable centralisation which was, unfortunately, observed during the previous leadership at the Ministry of Education. Here I would like to assure you - and because of my experience as a university professor at the Athens University of Economics - that the logic of foreign language programmes can be implemented immediately and be particularly effective. The reason is this: You know, all universities in Greece, due to international student exchange programmes, are already organising too many foreign language courses. In short, we have already prepared to draw up such foreign-language curricula too quickly, because the courses are already being carried out. The benefits, as you can see, are obvious. Firstly, we will have revenues, I would call them'remuneration' for the Greek public university from the tuition fees of foreign students. Secondly, all these partnerships will mark strategic alliances with top and very good foreign universities. We have seen what this means, by organising the 'dual degrees' or 'join degrees', which means, in fact, that a Greek student will be able to obtain a qualification with two qualifications, either two equal degrees of study on the same or different subject, which is very important. In the same direction, of course, is the organisation of summer schools, which also strengthen the international character of the Greek universities and certainly strengthen extroversion. In conclusion, I would like to say that this draft law recommends improvements in the field of education. Changes that are part of one of the phases we are implementing and we will implement to upgrade higher education. Changes that certainly need to be made so that we can provide our students and our students with the necessary equipment they will need to draw their own path and adapt in time to a complex and uncertain world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, especially for keeping time. We move on to Mr Panagiotis Skourikos, Member of the Eastern Attica from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to invite you to bring us to our memory and say goodbye to an important tragedy of the Greek theatre, an important fighter of democracy, the Aspasia Papathanasiou, who left us full days. The Aspasia Papathanasiou, who traveled the word of the tragic poets of antiquity to the ends of the earth. The Aspasia Papathanasiou, which alone is a chapter in the history of the theatre, but also in the history of the struggles of this people for freedom and democracy. I'm sure we will always have it in our souls and minds. As far as the bill under discussion is concerned, first of all, we have a very nice title: 'Enlargement of the school and other provisions'. But do we have a nice, inspiring and effective draft law? Ladies and gentlemen, I am afraid that the pandemic which has been afflicting and afflicting humanity has, in our country at least, divided dissatisfaction with the legislation on labour, the environment, culture, tourism and not only. The course of education has now come and, indeed, the one concerning the first part, the first stage. The arrangements proposed here, therefore, as neoliberal cutting arrangements, which are enclosed in the anti-Koronian educational community and society measures, are clearly problematic, non-functional and entirely backward. They are, moreover, arrangements that come to the vote without a debate ahead of us. I mean a real dialogue, democratic, social and institutions. I would like to stay on just a few points, as my time allows. PAPAL. Truly, what is happening with you and professional high school, the PSAs, where students want to have an art, a profession in their lives: Psychic, car engineer, decorator? Why are you so abhorred by these educational structures, but also the teachers and the students there? Let me remind you that in the government of Samaras you abolished twenty-eight specialties in the PSAs at that time and you fired, with the Minister of Administrative Reform Mr. Mitsotakis, two and a half thousand teachers, leading to private IEKs for those of the students who had the necessary money for their studies. The others in Cavalas? I would also remind you that SYRIZA brought the teachers back to work, enabled the graduates of the PESA to participate in examinations on PES, with encouraging results. We had imports into schools that get a lot of molecules, like medical. At the same time, we ensured that two-year structures were created in the Greek universities, where the graduates of the PESAL would continue their studies, ensuring financial support during the course of studies and European certification as regards their specificity. These structures have already been abolished early - early in September 2019. Why? Why do you insist on establishing an age cut in the seventeen years? Why are you denying the reintegration and the education and training of some young people who, for some reasons, economics or others - do not matter - had abandoned their studies?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u120	This has been removed. There's no one in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u121	Please let him speak. Don't interrupt him, Mr. Andriane.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u122	Don't interrupt me. You'll say what you have to say. You don't say it to help me, you say it to create impressions. Well, leave the impressions and answer us why you exclude high school graduates from the possibility of professional rehabilitation, high school graduates who want to go to learn an art and have a professional rehabilitation. Why are you doing this bill? Who benefits from this arrangement? Private IEK, of course, and the training schools under way after high school. What else can we think of? The thing's yelling for itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u123	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u124	You can deny it's four o'clock this afternoon. We expect everything from you. So what else can we think about? The thing yells for itself, I repeat. You are doing all this because as genuine, as I have said, neoliberals see the privatization of everything, of course, and of education. The needs of young children for public education, I'm afraid, it's none of your business. Whoever has money should pay to find out. And here we are talking about the excellence of the jackal, the wallet. Anyone who doesn't have it lost. Let's have English at the kids' stations. The Conference of Presidents and Quaestors of the Pedagogical Departments and Schools, the Teaching Federation of Greece, protests strongly. They stress that the regulation is in complete contrast with the philosophy of kindergarten, that it lacks scientific documentation. Ignore the special educational needs of infants. You insist. It doesn't sweat your ear. You accept the scientific community and their scientists when their opinion and presence are successful in using them for the same party benefit. See the announcement of the members of the PPC of the University of the Aegean on 24-4-2020. But there, when you took off your anachronistic ideas, ladies and gentlemen of the government, where you repository the retrograde, neo-preservative and old-fashioned draft law is the reintroduction of the conduct and the indication of the qualification in the qualifications. SYRIZA had abolished this anachronistic punishment provision with Law 4485/2017. It is not pedagogical in nature. And let me tell you that, for our time, it refers to a specific certificate of social rights. It legalises centralism, punishment and hierarchically structured school, bringing the completely opposite results to what we would like. Ladies and gentlemen, with its intense nostalgia about the past, the New Democracy Government is turning the country back, in times and customs of the beginning of the last century. And I'm very afraid that on the time you've taken us back to the owl hat for the boys and the school apron for the girls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, too, for keeping time. I will give the floor to Mr Georgios Vlavo, Member of the Eastern Attica from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the political leadership of each ministry, in this case the Ministry of Education, which respects the Prime Minister's confidence, and especially its responsibility for society and, more specifically, for the young people who are the future of our country, must have eyes and ears open, but above all, the thought of restless and creative in the face of what is going on in the modern world. The comparison is not long ago with yesterday, but with the societies of European countries, first and foremost, and then the societies of the world, seeking their share in the modernised environment. Adventure with the coronary enabled us to find out how Greek scientists and not only doctors are distinguished around the world. The position they hold was not given, but it was won with their value. They convinced the societies of the countries that live that they are the best and thus earned their trust. But those scientists who manage the mechanism of our country have also sent their own message throughout the world, a message of scientific training, of human sensitivity and worklessness. And to prevent an unfortunate question from me, why not all these scientists in our country, we should think that we have long been training scientists in many areas of public life that are far more than the needs of our national economy and is an option. So some will necessarily peculiarize and others will seek opportunities that other countries give. The important thing is to feel that their homeland is watching them, supporting them as part of our national planning, I hope everyone, if they want to, is waiting for them. In the end, and where there is Greece, the Greek universities are supporting. In this spirit, therefore, the Ministry of Education brought the bill under discussion, which is an integrated effort from below to above, from the kindergarten, with the introduction of new themes and the introduction of creative activities into English, to the university and the examinations for the introduction to higher education. It brings arrangements that were announced by the New Democracy - which is why it was known as positions - that were put to public consultation for a long time and after the views of the institutions and individuals were recorded, the final draft law was drawn up, which, after the committee's phase, is today for a vote in the Greek Parliament. So let me, as a foul sign of the review of the Opposition, say that the bill goes through brief procedures, commonly 'in secret'. Such procedures were not because it was never our choice. I will not repeat what our rapporteur, Mr Giannis Andrianos, has said in detail and document. But let me point out the three axes of the draft law. Firstly, the reform of the curriculum at school, secondly, targeted interventions to strengthen the content of educational work at school and thirdly, the organisational and improvemental arrangements in higher education. I should also add that changes in the educational programme by introducing workshops, skills in the mandatory preschool, primary and high school program from the next school year and new themes such as volunteering, road safety, robotics, entrepreneurship mark the turn to a modern school aimed at the wider education of pupils. In addition, a coherent framework is established for the evaluation of the school unit and the educational project and changes are adopted in the method of assessing the progress of pupils. We feel it is obvious that in order to improve our educational system, we must have an evaluation system. At the end of the day, ladies and gentlemen, because a lot of talk is being done about evaluation, we are all in evaluation every day ourselves. We are appreciated by the citizens every day and in a ballot we are not all elected. Some people are elected, some are not elected. All this is the result of the rewarding or rejecting the people and the choices made by the citizens. So I do not understand why so much denial of this assessment, which life itself demands and which applies in all areas. At the end of the day, even if, for example, there was no assessment of admission to universities, there would always be the criterion at which schools each will be selected. And in all the countries of the world, whatever system, there has always been the criterion - and I also speak to the left - who will go to medicine and who will go to this school or to this school and who will eventually be something else in his life. These were the result, I imagine, not of a central choice, but, depending on the merits, with the qualifications that each candidate had. One of the most important points of the new bill, in my opinion, is to strengthen and broaden the institution of standards and experimental schools and the measures for effective staffing of school units, such as double mobilisation for difficult areas. I'm not going to analyze them. It was well analysed by the Minister a little earlier. As far as higher education is concerned, the bill introduces arrangements for strengthening the extroversion of universities, for example through the possibility of establishing foreign-language undergraduate programmes and changes in the process of highlighting the rector authorities with a single ballot. They have nothing to share. The choice of persons is made for the Republican authorities, not the selection of voters. This has to be done and this is what we have to agree on. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on the criticism of counter-population and not the bodies, since I recognise them the right to have and to claim a different view on individual issues that concern them. So it was heard that the bill does not solve the problems of education. Really, ladies and gentlemen, particularly of SYRIZA, what problems? What you have not solved or created at the time you have ruled and inherited the current government? Well, don't criticize us too! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It has been said that the bill has a false title to upgrade education, while, as many representatives of operators have said, it is backwards. You don't have an opinion about that? Are you invoking the criticism of the bodies that have their own reasons to characterise as they want the bill? The establishment and operation of standards and experimental schools if it means backwardness to you, then we will never agree. It has been done - and with this I will end - a reference to Greek universities on the list of five hundred best universities in the world. These seven universities, how did they get in, how did they get in? Wasn't there any criteria? But they're the criteria we're talking about! And the rest of the four hundred ninety-three universities in the world how they were selected, how did they get on the list? Didn't they go through any criteria? Is it enough for us to say how these universities are the best in the world, but we do not consider, we do not see how they were chosen and what policy have they taken to make the best of the world? It was heard about universities 'unnamed corporations'. But all these universities have revenue! In many of these universities they are also schooling your children and doing well! Why did you choose them? Because it's better because they have criteria, because they have goals, because they have perspectives, because they give professional rights. Yeah, that's the reality, don't patronize you. Do you want to say names?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u127	You'll have to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u128	Let's also say names if you want, but it's not bad. I didn't say it was bad. I said it for good! Selecting the best universities in the world if you can, well do. I'm done with public university and public school, and me and my children. Because I hear here about class divisions! Let this story end! Socialism won't be taken advantage of you, will it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u129	There are ratings.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u130	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u131	We have finished a public university, we have consistently served it, we support it with all our powers, and today this bill comes to support the public university, but it cannot really close its eyes on what is going on around the world. That is what we have done and that is what we are invited to vote on tomorrow. And we have made our choice to turn a page, to support the university, to support public education for the sake of the entire Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u133	You've done something wrong and you're turning around.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u134	I mean improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u135	Late-language...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u136	No, no, it's not wrong at all. We're turning a page with improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u137	And now is the reason for Seraios Mr. Konstantinos Bubas from the Greek Solution. Here, Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vary according to my speech, because I see that we are not exemplified by the mistakes of the past. We would say that over the last thirty years there have been at least ten, fifteen changes to the education system, when the base of the "twelfth" has been abolished, the base of the "twelfth" has been reintroduced, reducing and increasing. This means that there are mistakes that do not lead us to improve our educational system. The defendant knows that education is a set of actions, in order for the child to have a form and a character, to enrich knowledge, but primarily to understand the meaning of life. And, as I said in committee, there are demolition mechanisms. But the child needs to learn the human values. Whew and woe, if we give the treatment to people who do not cultivate morality, they do not cultivate principles in order to form a character. You know, there is a philosophy in education called 'the chaos of the lip'. It's just when the glass is over. This "hard of the lip" scientists and philosophers throughout the centuries place it in children sixteen to eighteen years old. It is those children who are between dream and fantasy who start to have a standard in the first place, we would say, a reasonable point of view. Often, however, these children are differentiated by their genes, payments, family environments and idiosyncrasy. So that is where the family will play a leading role, and secondly, but equally important, the teacher and the school will play a role. Over the years we have been building a educational system in which children do not love school, precisely because of certain conditions for which the teacher is not primarily responsible, who also has a large share of responsibility. Today we have reached the point of talking about skills in Article 1, but from an age that we really need to stumble and see from what age and then we can put these skills. Of course, too, let us see and discuss Article 2 which speaks of English in kindergarten. English may partially widen the mind, but this should be done without children forgetting the basic principle of Greek language. As regards Article 3, we as Greek Solution would like the ancient Greeks which are not a foreign language, but are our language. Seven generations first separate us to infiltrate more into what is called "archaeological Greek spirit", "archaeological Greek language". You know, it would be good since the late Georgios Rallis and then Apostle Kaklamanis, Marietta Giannakou - Koutsikou, Anna Diamantopoulou, Giorgos Papandreou, George Souflias, Andreas Loverdou, there was a national, as we could say, principle of collapsing education. So we could ask all these previous Ministers of Education - those of course who are alive - what mistakes they have made so that through mistakes we can improve this educational system. We're going to a primary school, which is a prep for the high school schools, the primary high school schools. Then we go to high school, which is an optional for how we do schooling and schooling in high school. And all of this with what ultimate purpose? We must enter a university which, apart from'responsibility', does not have to give us any other supplies in order to have the antibodies. If we start from kissing or phobia in Ancient Sparta or aggregations in Crete or in general from the educational system of the ancient Greeks, the child should generally have a mature political thought. So you need to start first on the recruitment of educational staff. I entered a table and found that since 2010 forty thousand teachers have left without these posts being paid. These teachers have left not to retire, but leave confidence because they are not satisfied with the conditions under which they are working. Isn't that something to worry about? We are talking about a moleculosis, which puts a wall against difficult and remote areas which are areas of another speed of educational work, which we must premium with more teachers and give them the guarantees so that there is no distinction between 'pilots' and 'patricians'. We're talking about experimental and standard schools. We can agree. However, we very much fear that there will be social discrimination, that only standards or experiments will be given weight - I put the diagnosing 'or' - and the other schools will be left out. What's the matter? We said that the right role of a school is the experimented school that has a share of effort that has an attempting force. So it is not the experiment that is stiff, which is cliché and which cannot offer so much to the student. I want the student in search. If, then, we do not go to books searched and legible, how can knowledge and critical thought become? You know, education must compose proposals of reason, but also proposals of heart. "As much as the mind runs...", he says, "...he does not reach the heart." He mustn't miss feeling. So we're all concerned about Article 5 on conduct? How do we mean conduct? I hear - I have sinned, I will say it like this and forgive me - to say the conduct of a social certificate. The conduct is behaviour, it's courtesy, it's morality, it's virtue, it's principles. Why, then, are we so concerned about conduct? It matters how we compose it, how we filter it and how we process it. You know, who's the best judge for the teacher? It is heavy the concept of "teacher", heavy and unscrupulous. The teacher includes this role that the child should connect with society, with the environment, with all this social awareness. This term is very heavy and we really need to talk about upgrading the educational system, but above all about upgrading the teacher. Is it possible to speak today of education when we have gaps that will be covered by assistant teachers? And you know that the Ministry considers substitutes as panacea, because it wins money, so that it proceeds to temporary recruitment. We were also here with Mr. Delis asking a question about school cleaning. So when you don't solve individual logistics issues and you don't create a pleasant environment at school, how do you want to talk about upgrading? It will be a siege of effort and we will not be able to achieve much. I, as I said in my speech in committee, want the child to know the importance of the Battle of Thermopylae in 480 BC, except for the three hundred Spartans of Spartans to know both the seven hundred Thespecies and Diophilos, I want him to know who George Tsercetis or Anastasios Polyzoidis was at the trial of Kolokotronis. I want him to know the propaganda that is being done for the "Democracy of Macedonia of Iliden", Tello Agra, Antypa, Mickey Zaza, so he can have critical thoughts. There was no talk of the familial schools. I take this opportunity to tell you that right now in Himara, the wintering Greek there - to put this title - has no school. In fact, the Rama government is taking the fields from the Northcontinental to the Albanian Riviera to make a road. I don't know if the State Department has to take a stand and tell us what's going on. In Kortsa there is a private training course, the "OMERROS" training course, which provides educational work. And we've left the satellites, we've left the schools of the family, the five that operate in Istanbul, the two in Imbros and Tenedo - because the rest have been destroyed - and we have them on the margin. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We must learn - and I close with that, Mr President - from all of this, as we must learn from the pandemic, from which, it seems, we have not been taught. Because after every pandemic, there were radical changes. In 430 BC, when Pericles and his family died, he changed the educational system in ancient Athens and the aqueduct. In 541 C.E. on Justinian in black plague, Justinian lifted up the king's walls. In 1352 the "quaranta giorni", the Venetians, changed the entire education system, as in 1630 in Milan. But you can see what happened here in Athens in 1918 with the Spanish flu. Smokers lost their job, schools had a problem. Also, you can see what happened in 1957 with Asian flu, in 1968 with Hong Kong flu and in 1977, where we had a system change in Moscow, 1989 and then, in 2003 with SARS, as well as in 2009 and 2012. We weren't exemplified in history. That's why we need to put the cornerstone for our children. It is our obligation to learn from the mistakes of the past. The health, which is defence of the organization, defence of knowledge and mind training, should concern us all. It is a debt to all of us and not just to the individual government. There must be a national council of political authorities, of political value, and all together in a composition of views, to decide on the nursery of Greece, which is our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Maximos Sedetakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps to some of you I can sound exaggerated, but I believe that with the Ministry of Education's bill it is the political system that runs tests on the present and future generations of Greeks. We are called upon to pass many classes, because the political system in the past few years has been re-examined. Unfortunately, all the good and good intentions of Mrs Kerame's predecessors have fallen into the void. As a result, we were the first generation of Greeks to learn fewer letters than the parents. Is that what happens when? This is happening at a time when the world runs at high speeds and education has been made by the most important factors of power. Especially for small countries such as Greece, it is the most important power factor. It is known that for one more year of schooling, the per capita gross national product is increasing by 10%. It is known that global superpowers are fighting to gather human brains, so they are superpowers. It is known that the US has been a global superpower because they have emphasised education for a century now, because they have had the most skilled human potential in the world. There is no place on the planet today, no place in the modern world that is not clear and clear that human capital is the most critical. Those who have not understood it yet, those who have not studied it should understand that the risk of global conflict is human capital. The new giants of the universe will emerge from the outcome of this battle, as will regional players. As a political system, then, we have to answer the question: will we allow Greece to give this battle, or will we continue to waste our human capital unnecessarily? We have a huge responsibility towards history and the next generations. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are debating is the first serious attempt in years to make claims to the great conflict that we have before us. It is the first serious attempt to regain the meaning of the phrase spoken by the oldest 'learn my child'. It wasn't a father advice. It was a cry of awareness of the difficulties that Greeks have faced and the only way to overcome. But it was something higher too. It was a term of national survival. It was different from the story of the secret school that kept our national identity alive and limed the desire of freedom, because knowledge liberates and delivers. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, in order to be useful in future generations, within this framework, we should evaluate this draft law, assess whether it offers our children the opportunity to meet the demands of the modern world, so that they can make the battle that I have referred to above. The answer is, yes, the bill gives that. Can we continue with an educational program that doesn't work on skills workshops already in kindergarten? It is not possible to detect the inclination of each child so that we can direct it to take advantage of it. We don't have any more of them. The man who will do the work he likes and has talent will not only be a man creative and productive, but will be a man happy. Can we continue with an educational system that does not create socially responsible citizens? The themes introduced, the 'Evil' and the 'Environment', the 'Social Conscience and Responsibility', the 'Societal Thought and Initiative' are there. Can we continue with an educational system that children can't learn from infants in English? Either way, it's the language that works out the whole modern world. The Greeks possessed and survived because they were cosmopolitan and multilingual. The fact that some people want unfamiliar subjects from an enclosed society only refers to total perceptions that we liberals of course do not think of accepting. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to design a modern educational system that does not introduce children into computing and robotics, when in front of us we have the fourth industrial revolution or the concept of entrepreneurship, when this is what is needed for our development and prosperity, nor can we continue with an educational system that does not promote research and critical thinking, team spirit and evaluation. In addition, we'socially insensitive' want an educational system that provides opportunities for social mobility with standards and experimental schools for talented children of the non-occupational and occupiers. We want an educational system that evaluates students to teachers and conduct, of course. I come to the most important one. I cannot imagine an educational system which does not promote national identity, which does not teach Greek history and does not link children to their roots, national references, traditions and values. For all this, I believe that the approach of the bill is at the bottom and we reach the upper level, the universities. Foreignlanguage Departments: What can I say? At last, our universities are opening their door to the world. Finally, it becomes the self-evident thing that all countries in the world do. I could only devote the speech to it. I have to say a good call to the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely believe that this bill disguises the timeless demand of my 'learning child', which is why I think it can give hope that our children will learn more from us and that we will not see them go abroad, but we will be haunting them here, along with those who turn around. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Mrs Anastasia Gara has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the communication on the issue of provisional tables for the four thousand five hundred recruits in special education is very positive, a notice which was handed over to you by the SYRIZA Government, a proclamation that is also ready with the money in the budget for the previous year. However, you have not informed us, you have not explained why these recruitments were delayed a year, since most of them were ready and since September the teachers had to be in school. Also, you have not informed us of what was going to happen with the remaining ten thousand teachers in general education. What I have to comment on is that we are pleased that you are consistent with SYRIZA's policy and perhaps it is the only positive act that we have seen all the time in the field of education, because we, SYRIZA as a previous government have ensured that we also ensured money, but we also do the appropriate procedures to prepare the notices for necessary recruitments in the field of education, as your policy was characterised by a limitation of the area of education and by redundancies or the availability of teachers. With regard to today's bill, ladies and gentlemen, this was presented by the Ministry of Education's leadership as a major reform that changes the school from the bottom up. It is, though, isn't it? The truth is that today's bill is marked by deep maintenance and regression. You propose a conservative school, punishing students and teachers, far away from the needs of a modern democratic society. You effectively deregulation education and do not reform it. Unfortunately you have an ideal obsession with child stigmatisation. We have been following this for too many months. You create an environment that is levelling and suffocating for the personality of students, turning the educational process into a continuous hunt of grades and examinations, which you have badly called excellence. That's not the excellence. In addition, work without promoting modern teaching methods that highlight children’s particular abilities. All provisions of this bill hide the strengthening of inequalities and discrimination within schools and universities. So you create a school cheap for the state, but very expensive for the families, dealing with the school as an anonymous company and children or parents, as well as teachers as clients in it. Of course you are particularly consistent in your ideology and in your political programme, and that is what we recognize. Besides, implement a full deregulation and regression plan of the country for the sake of the extreme profitability of the "days", "friends" and specific interests. It is no coincidence, after all, that no single training body was found to agree or even find a positive provision in this bill, except, of course, the owners of private colleges and large schools. Maybe for them, just for them to legislate. The bill aims to introduce a profound conservative concept into society and to transform young people into manipulators, free citizens. Remove children from the dimension of their personality, from the free expression and from the expression of their concerns, from adolescence, from adolescence, and from youth concerns. These concerns must also be accompanied by proper knowledge. That is why you are particularly concerned about the sociology course, which you are also abrogating. It frightens you of a young person alive, a young democratic, thinking and criticism of us. It scares you of a young creative and contagious. Afraid of knowledge. Fear the question. Does the real excellence and virtue of free and educated citizens scare you? It is no coincidence that since the first day of the New Democracy government has abolished comprehensive provisions for strengthening public education, which SYRIZA had promoted and legislated, such as the two-year vocational training programmes for graduates of the ESDP, the establishment of new university departments, university asylum. You have reduced overall funding in the field of education. You balanced the diplomas of doubtful colleges with those of high-level public universities. You have postponed or cancelled thousands of teachers' recruitment - I analysed it before - and you are deafening on the demands and proposals of society. Refugee the support of universities and also of the region such as Thrace, for example, by insisting on the establishment of new university departments at the Democritus University of Thrace, as well as others, while leading to degradation and closure of the Dumos School of Nursing. Ladies and gentlemen, today you are presenting us with a bill without any scientific study, without real consultation with society today, even now, against reactionary educational provisions. Enter, for example, English in kindergarten without scientific documentation or base. We note that the Conference of Presidents of the Pedagogical Sections of the country pointed out that this measure lacks scientific documentation and disregards basic pedagogical principles. However, you are deaf even in the advice of the scientific community. Even the Scientific Committee of the Parliament has pointed out its opposition to a number of provisions, especially that which restores the history timeline to mention the conduct. According to the Committee, the students' personal data are insulted. But it is not the first time that you are indifferent to protecting the personality of students, since you have already introduced a provision for cameras in schools, and they have leaked personal data of teachers and students. In fact, what can benefit from child punishment, child stigmatisation and the reintroduction of the four-day abortion? How anti-educational, anti-social, punishing can this measure be? When all modern societies fight to eliminate the discrimination and stigmatisation of individuals, when at high international level is the fight of bullying, you bring in a device that stigmatizes children, stigmatizes young people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Indicative, too, is that special treatment is not entirely available from the bill, that there is no reference to disabled people, that there are no provisions on children with particular educational difficulties. This is particularly characteristic of the overall policy pursued in education and work. It is also a bill which undemocratly excludes much of the academic community from the right to vote, with a regulation that closelys democracy and strengthens discrimination between teachers. With this bill, among other things, you are increasing the number of students per department in primary and preschool education from twenty - two to twenty - five and even at a pandemic time. You claim that the lesson will be more essential. You are levelling up educational and educational needs that exist, but your objective is essentially to minimize the number of departments, in order to proceed with dismissals of teachers. Resuspend the thing bank in high school. We are, in fact, talking about a measure that leads to a hunting of material at the expense of the work of pedagogicals, and closes the eye to the giantization of the paradox. Increase your tests by creating an inhuman, judging system of examination. We all realize what it means to children's psychology and the personality they shape in schools. But we are all aware of what it means to increase costs in the family budget. The bill also categorizes and creates two-speed schools, funding the so-called excellence of the few, but at the same time undermining the school of the neighborhood, the district, the school essentially the needs of the people's family. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, are we talking today about a bill 'to upgrade school', as it was called, or are we talking about reactive and anachronistic arrangements that attack and degrade the public school by ultimately concealing your obsessed and ideologies? For our part, we will continue to claim and represent a school that is productive, creative, happy, a folk school that will fit them all, a school of thought and questioning for youth, which will strengthen the skills and specificities of children, a school that will eventually create aware free citizens, with deep knowledge, with their own contribution to social progress. Mr Ministers, perhaps your greatest contribution to education will be the withdrawal of this bill. Thank you for your tolerance, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, too. And we will go to Phthytida, to Mr. Ioannis Economou from New Democracy. Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, education in our country needs changes. Anyone who does not understand this is like closing eyes to reality and to facts, facts like those that show the results of the PISA competition in 2018, where the rating of Greece in three skills - in understanding the text, mathematics and natural sciences - which students must have by ending their compulsory education was worse than that of 2015 and in each of these three were under the base, beyond the waist. In a list of seventy-eight countries in each of these skills, our country was under the waist. I shall submit the relevant documents in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Economou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, the need for changes in education, ladies and gentlemen, is not only substantiated by them or by other corresponding performances. Ignorance of our history, therefore, and inability to learn from it, moderateism, since all for decades are the same or about as excellent, lack of respect for the rules and rules of the ordered state, inability to develop critical thinking, in the absence of a spirit of entrepreneurship and innovation, cultural deficit, replacement of our cultural identity from products of overconsumption and underpopulation. So, progressively and firmly, an evil mechanism of declining and retreating went into operation, which, apart from the purely educational results that we have often described, has also led to the creation of critical masses of citizens, but also voters, who are without emancipation, without proper criticism, without the necessary qualifications becoming the prerogative of a customer and populist state. These conditions, of course, have their own reflection on the political and electoral choices of the citizens both among the parties and within the parties themselves. So of course we need changes, and we need changes that will answer the question how to improve our educational system so that it leads to educated citizens, so that it leads to integrated personalities and people, and how, above all, the public school and the public university can become a social mobility mechanism, a pretext passport. This is the main question, the main issue that today employs hundreds of thousands of Greek families who sacrifice everything they can to enable their children to advance, to do so through public education. And the truth is that the draft law we are debating today takes important steps in this direction. It introduces new skills in the educational process by bringing children into contact with new thematics, which either from their positive dimension, such as volunteering or robotics, or from their threatening dimension, such as road safety, dependencies or abuse, are a new reality that they face in their lives. The teaching of informatics, classics, foreign languages, broaden the methods by which children's progress is assessed, introduces the logic of the "kontra" course in the third grade, introduces a coherent framework for the evaluation of the school unit, strengthens and extends the institution of the pilot and experimental schools. I should like to say here, ladies and gentlemen, that we are absent from the list of Central Greece, despite the fact that in Lamia, in the capital of Central, we have university departments of Physics, Mathematics, Informatics, what is needed and required to support such an institution. Very quickly we have to make sure from next school year that we have a model and an experimental one in Lamia, as we had before. It is also recommended that the high school-graduate theme bank be set up and that measures are taken to improve the efficient and timely staffing of schools. These and many more interventions are in the positive direction. I would like here, ladies and gentlemen, to make a point, to express a concern about the issue of reintroduction of the reintroduction of the treatment in the sabbatical. Our bill makes important contributions to the school behavior of students, to the new skills and themes that we introduce, to the interventions that have to do with school-leaving counsellor in schools and to the intention of strengthening the presence of psychologists. All this forms a number of modern preconditions for preventing and addressing any problems in school behavior. On the other hand, my experience at least says that practically in the past, when the conduct case was in place, had no substantial repercussions. I would say that it did not have, because it was too dangerous, and I would say unfair and excessive from this early age, that the student was stigmatized with a title of conduct. I am therefore thinking about whether this provision serves something. On the contrary, I feel that it is unfair to the overall work, the very serious effort made in the bill on behaviour within school. Mr President, with the bill we are discussing, there is a serious effort to redefined what we want and what we do not want from school. Significant steps are taken to ensure that learning, education from kindergarten to high school is governed by a single, coherent and evolving philosophy. Unfortunately, the reality, in my view, is that this philosophy has been absent for years from our schools, from too early, too soon, from high school. It often seems that the school is just to run time to the full - time exams and that perception of the third grade is getting worse. See, for example, what happened this year because of the coronary pandemic. Schools closed on March 11th and high school III reopened on May 11th. So, despite the fact that these two very critical months schools have been closed - I do not underestimate the work done online at all - and despite the fact that we know that the participation of the children of the third grade is traditionally not very fanatical - to say so - in the last few years, the pan-Hellenic examinations will be carried out and done very well. This, in my opinion, involves a shocking dimension. In the most critical months schools are closed and despite this, the examinations will be carried out normally. It shows that the role of school, high school, even on this issue, the question of examinations, is very limited. I say this because the big bet, ladies and gentlemen, is how and whether we can change this status at school. Only then will the school be able to strengthen its role and authority. If we fail to achieve this, I fear that any attempt to strengthen critical thinking or open up new horizons to education, learning, will have very limited results. It is not, of course, a simple matter. On the contrary, this is something very difficult and complex, because we have a multi-dimensional problem to deal with. On the one hand we have the school where this model works for decades, we have the thousands of scientists who make their bread working hard - live their families, pay their taxes - in school education and we have a distorted one - let me say - perception, deeply rooted in the suburbs of our society, about what it means to study, a concept that says that de and well you need to study. This is a concept which has degraded vocational education in the country. It's a concept that wiped out technological education completely. It's a concept that works, among other things, to be appointed as a secretary in a pacifist court, you need a degree in Philosophy. Therefore, in order to change these we need brave decisions, planning and, above all, we need cross-party consultation. Without these changes, without the speech, without the poles of excellence, without evaluation, without modulation, multilingualism, extroverty, innovation, few privileged ones will continue to go ahead. However, the country will not proceed with the corresponding steps. The country will remain captive of closed circuits and closed elite. Why, listen, societies without elite do not exist, we have to accept that. The question is: what procedures do they show up, how are these elites democratically controlled and how are they developing? What opportunities and currents of upward mobility have those starting underneath, so that by learning and working, they can evolve, advance and rise? So the question is: will these elites be party? It's gonna be inherited? Will they be mostly paratroopers? Or will they be pitiful? To be practicable, our education needs changes and changes require implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, too. I will give the floor now to the State Secretary, Mr Digalakis, and then again they will be given the floor from New Democracy, but I do not want to complain about SYRIZA. It's not my fault, woman, you know it. The spokesman for the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs Mr.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start my speech from the most important part of the draft law on higher education, foreign-language curriculum. It's the most important thing because it reflects the university we want, an extrovert university, an internationalized university. The Civic Opposition was mentioned during the debate on the draft law in the Committee on Educational Affairs on the rankings of Greek universities in international rankings, on rakings. In one of them we have a university in position four hundred fifty-four, one of the most valid and another five in positions five hundred to a thousand. This situation is not satisfying us at all, contrary to the Qualified Opposition. We want our universities to be among the best universities in the world. But, ladies and gentlemen of Officer's Reconciliation, did you ever ask yourself how these rankings come out? I will report to you some of the individual ratings of our best university based on these rankings, of our university, which is in position four hundred fifty-four. The survey scores 56 out of 100, but in the two internationalization indexes concerning students and teachers, it scores 7.3 to 100 and 1.6 to 100, with the result that its total score is 25.4 to 100, which is why it is in place about five hundred. Foreign-language programmes are therefore important because they internationalise our university, facilitate mobility and exchange programmes that are so important today that our universities are training people in the world. They help the universities get up to the rankings and help our country become a training centre in the Southeast Mediterranean. It is true that you have established with Law 4485 foreign-language programmes, but there is the proverb "whoever doesn't want to ferment, ten days sifting" and only to see how many foreign-language curriculum programs have been created since then. As we talked, no one! Why wasn't anyone founded? Because it required a ministerial decision for each of these programmes and cooperation with the international community. In fact, if I am not mistaken, and initially a central ministerial decision was foreseen, then it changed and required a ministerial decision per curriculum. But that opposition also appeared in the debate. It was heard that each university section corresponds to a recognized science - mathematics, physics, law - while these sections were characterized more flexible - a little mathematics, a little physics. What are they gonna do? What professional rights? What scientific formation? It was heard about sophisticated, then, double programs that would bring money to eagles. The double degree, the joint and the double degrees were questioned, and all that means undermining the basic program and it was heard that there was no connection to the university, but we are going to build a double, a parallel university. What, though, is actually the case? Foreignlanguages shall be established by decisions of the University Senate following a recommendation from the University Branch Assembly. Foreignlanguages operate with instruments such as the Senate, the Programme Committee and the Director of the Programme. The Programme Committee shall consist of professors of the department designated by the convening body, acting on a recommendation from the department or departments, in the event that we have cooperation between departments. So the committee is also chosen by the senate after the convention's recommendation. So what parallel system are we talking about? We are talking about making better use of the university's resources, of cooperation between the departments and the assembly, in order to make better use of the university's resources. A section, therefore, can provide one or more of these curriculum programmes and these curriculum programmes can be taught by teachers, assistant teaching staff, EDPS, EIB and other partners, since they have, of course, fulfilled their obligations in Greek-language curriculum. So first there are the obligations in Greek-language programmes and then they can teach in foreign languages. In addition, however, foreignlanguage students can also teach new Greek scientists, as explicitly provided for in the law, whether Greek scientists who have left abroad or Greek scientists who are in Greece who have no work or have no work. So it's the best way our universities can help reverse Brain Drain and do it Brain Gain. We are giving the opportunity to set up double or specialising double programmes, joint and double degrees. The reason for this is that these enhance interdisciplinaryity, monitor developments, enhance cooperation between different scientific expertise and is the only way to resolve the complex problems of the 21st century today. We also intend to extend these possibilities to Greek-language programmes with the framework law that we bring to the universities. But let us see the quality of the programmes, because it has been said that we are making programmes for atonics. The decision of the panel on these programmes shall include the content, the curriculum, the number of importers, the criteria for selecting these participants, the budget of the programme, which is without charge to the State budget, shall include a feasibility study, a scientific and scientific study. So since all this dossier is made and approved by the Senate, it goes to the new National Higher Education Authority. So these programmes are evaluated and certified before they start operation and then, if they are evaluated positively and established by decision of the university alone and without any involvement of the Ministry, they are periodically evaluated during their operation. So this procedure is the process that we have chosen: Assessment and self-sufficient at the university and an exclusive decision of the university. Compare it with the procedure that you have followed in establishing the programmes without evaluations, sometimes without the university's approval and with the Ministry's decision, with the Ministry's legislation and sometimes with parliamentary amendments. For all these reasons, therefore, the programmes were very welcome by the universities, as was mentioned today in the debate in the committee. I would like to comment a little on the issue of unconstitutionality and European law, which has been discussed about these programmes. These foreign-language programs are aimed exclusively at foreign students, not Greek students. They're autonomous programs. Their content is fully distinguished from the other curricula and the Constitution is not violated, as the obligation for tertiary education applies exclusively to Greek students. It does not concern foreigners to whom these programmes are addressed. There is therefore no question of the unconstitutionality of the bill in this respect. Comments have been made on issues of equal treatment and non-discrimination among European citizens. Since it has been heard that we are putting tuition fees on foreigners, which may include European citizens, the principle of non-discrimination is being violated here, I have to tell you that we are not introducing these programmes, by abolishing the normal curriculum programmes, which of course continue to work and at which European foreign citizens can also enter on the basis of the rates currently in force. We therefore maintain the existing framework in which the citizens of the European Union have the right to enter with percentages and therefore enjoy exactly the same rights and benefits as Greek citizens. So no violation of European legislation. It could be said that the exclusion of Greeks is probably a reverse discrimination against Europeans, and that is not the case. The reason is that the current regime ensures that Greeks have full access to the good of higher education. All these allegations, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, are confirmed by the House's Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, which did not raise any question of unconstitutionality or discrimination, on the basis of what I said earlier. You, at SYRIZA, are hypocritical to talking about a return bill in the past, when your own policy in higher education aimed to return to the 1982 law. On the contrary, universities have been on a path of constant reforms to their more effective adaptation to an increasingly competitive global environment, moving in the 21st century and shaping the technological and social conditions for transition to the digital age and the fourth industrial revolution. We bring the reforms required so that our universities are competitive companions on this journey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u147	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Thanks to our skilled partners here, we managed to break it, so Mrs. Meropi Jufi will take the floor from Ioannina and SYRIZA. Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time, the New Democracy will close a year in the governance of the country and in this time, with methodicity and a plan to curtail public education, constantly giving private interests a place. In the last year alone for higher education, the Ministry of Education suspended the two-year programmes of vocational studies, decided by all congresses and approved budgets, abolished free access to the green schools, the Law School in Patras, suspended the operation of thirty-seven new departments with approval to most of their congresses and introduced a new compensation system for funding, which linked the evaluation to private economic criteria, mainly affecting regional institutions. At the same time, he has rushed to recognize the qualifications of private colleges and has arranged a gift for collegeers. We have tabled an amendment to that effect in order to abolish the famous provision that all universities find to be contrary to it. As for the announced recruitment of the special education and training of the three thousand five hundred permanent teachers, it is being carried out over a year, but after they had been voted on in the 2019 budget by SYRIZA, which you had voted against, so you voted against it if I follow your own reasoning. Also, with regard to the argument that no permanent appointments have ever been made for many years in special education and education, let us remind you that in the years New Democracy was governed by PASOK and indeed, it had never come out of an AACC competition for special education and education. We attempted within memorials and just after SYRIZA left SYRIZA, we launched them. But what about the five thousand two-two intakes of primary and secondary education for the year 2020, which our government had also launched with the other five thousand two hundred in 2021? Do we have a timetable? How will our schools work next year? The Minister, when, as a member of the State of Anti-Population, presented the New Democracy programme for education, mentioned the biggest investment in our country. For whom and what kind of investment? Who benefit from the New Democracy programme you have presented and are implementing today? The answer I think is simple and clear. It was given last week at the meeting of the Committee on Forums with the institutions. Your only supporters are private school owners and caregivers, while at an earlier meeting they were collegegirls. You're alone, Mrs. Kerameau. The world of education, the trade union leaders, and even the groups that are involved in the New Democracy, but I would also say that all of the parties in this House do not support you, and that is reflected in the many negative comments that have been made by the majority of them in the public consultation of your bill and that is precisely because you are driving through all means to free the state from its financial obligations. So you are urging the increase in private spending and you are determined to transfer the cost to families. The normality you make, despite fine words, unfortunately increases inequalities, increases exclusions in the name of competitiveness and "excellence" by suspending social mobility and subjugating educational institutions, content of education and evaluation procedures to market rules. And that's why? Because your bill provides a school with more exams, restoring the failed subject table, more barriers to the introduction of no tuition fees for children in higher education, a school leak and studied per direction of thousands of pupils, either towards cheap training and early specialization or towards colleges. It provides for a punishing and rewarding assessment for teachers, categorisation of schools with performance and efficiency criteria, commentation of the kindergarten and selective teaching of English in infants, despite the substantiated objections of the meeting of presidents and the jewellery of the twenty-eight teaching departments and schools, i.e. the specialists, who listen to them at the appropriate level. Ignore the real needs of infancy education for inclusive school, for early diagnosis and intervention for children with development problems, with social problems, from multilingual backgrounds. I now come to your favourite theme that SYRIZA promoted equilibrium downwards and cultivated the culture of minor effort. It is, though, isn't it? Real excellence has been implemented by the SYRIZA Government since 2017, when in a very critical area of vocational education it developed the national strategic planning, a design that led to the successful programs of apprenticeship and the new beginning of PSAA, which were subsequently emerged by CEDEFOP and other European organisations as excellent practices. A few days ago the relevant report was also published, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes. And I'm on my way. You are moving towards a deserving standardisation of most experimental schools, aiming, on the one hand, at maintaining the climate of furniture excellence for the conservative audience, on the other hand, at creating schools for the middle-class elite, which will then become the engine of the reactionary reform for the schools in the neighborhood. We say 'yes' in experimental schools, 'yes' in testing new teaching methods and in interconnecting with their universities and teaching departments, 'yes' in new curricula and in new books with the best practice, but dispersed in all schools. I note that this regulation is also the major issue arising from newly established schools, which will abolish other schools. In Yannina, the model school under way abolishes a historic and remarkable general high school in the city, the Zosomi Faculty, with significant prototypes in the pan-Hellenic exams, creating a series of imbalances, students who will be forced to disperse to other high school, miles away and dozens of organic educational posts, acquired after a great effort, will be lost. Madam Minister, you have also referred to the subject of historical continuity. There's nothing going on all the time. The High School of Lifelong Learning worked until 1963 as a model high school before segregation into high school and high school. We invite you to withdraw the modelling of school and to take serious note of the problems that arise. Listen and objectively evaluate the proposals of the local ELMEA, the associations of parents and guardians and the municipal authorities before you move on to this arrangement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like one or two minutes, Mr President. And I would like to finish with the tertiary education part. You could say a lot. We believe that the arrangements are negative arrangements that narrate the university's function and academic purposes. Regression is obvious and conscious. Older laws are copied that failed. You rule out a lot of the members of the academic community. And indeed, his provisions go back thirty years. Rectoring systems - unfortunately - favour the single vote, political purposes and reward customer relations while fighting pluralism and representativeness. It changes the context of the transcripts by creating new restrictions for low-income students. And of course, the operation of foreign-language and summer programmes is not an innovation, they had already started on SYRIZA, but with strict rules and conditions to ensure the academia and the public nature of education. Innovative is the creation of a parallel system of higher education that operates outside a department with dangerous ambiguities, formalisation and operation, the imposition of tuition fees, without any public funding and without transparency in their scientific competence. We have stressed that this cannot be a matter for Greek students as citizens of the European Union. In our opinion, the Scientific Committee of the Parliament also disproves you. What you want and try to do is bypass Article 16 and give space to the private interests that are impatient to act in higher education. Other things you had to do. How, Mr. Undersecretary, will Members respond to undergraduate studies, postgraduate studies, foreignlanguage, summer departments? Why have you not approved the posts sent to you by universities, over five hundred and eleven months of ponding at the Ministry? Why is it that you do not comply with the rule of 'one to one' in the departures, departures and have given an oral order to freeze? How will you be serving the universities with new potential? This is a serious treatment of Brain Drain. And of course, the increase in expenditure in higher education, because in this way, in difficult circumstances, the size of the institutions has increased in the past and made them sustainable in the European environment. In this way, the participation of three Greek universities in European university networks has been achieved, since international and European experience has shown that those countries that have maintained the state funding of research and higher education have dynamically advanced and expanded their distance from countries that have made cuts in public funding and research. And I'm ending up. SYRIZA supports without rotation the strengthening of public and quality education for all and all and is at the side of those struggling to remove exclusions and discrimination. This is not a political construction, but a necessary treaty on social well-being, on education and on cultivating the critical thinking of all children. That is what we have tried to do in the years of governance. I have already talked about the effort made in vocational education and in the formulation of the single area of higher education and research. I am also talking about the specific education, Greek-language education and education of refugees that has been characterised by European times as good practice in the midst of a terrible economic and refugee crisis. The package of our interventions, which the academic community is well aware of, we discussed in detail in the Committee on Morphics and I resent it for the information of the National Representation. Ladies and gentlemen, education has a high social burden. And those of the civilian staff ignored it ended their political career soon. Take note, then, that we will not take a step behind the defence of public goods and, of course, neither a step back in the defence of public education.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u149	Thank you very much. And from Ioannina we will go to the 2nd North Athens Sector and Mr. Theodoros Rousopoulos of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's a little weird how you feel about talking here, but we'll get used to it, or I hope we don't get used to it. Ladies and gentlemen, I always come to the talks with my political opponents, good faith, bona fide, as they say in Latin. I am afraid that, even today, however, the SYRIZA colleagues have not avoided this tactic, which they have followed, that is to say a priori, that they have the only truth. Of course, a posteriori and de facto prove that their policy was not the right one. We have not heard a single mea culpa in this respect, but scripta manent, they remain in writing the political works and we all know them. Politics in education is not tabula rasa, as no one is tabula rasa politics. So, taking the past, which, since I referred to the Latin expressions - and you will understand why - is the status quo ante, in front of us, I understand that we need to go to a Greek philosopher, Heraklion, and say that since everything flows, it cannot be statically all, changes are needed. And the changes take place for two reasons: First and foremost, why did the government change? Our political position has been very specific, you know it since the election period. Secondly, because things are changing around us and we can't stay the same. How many of us imagined four months ago or three and a half months ago that the meetings of many committees of Parliament would be held through teleconferences, we would participate through teleconferences in the House, in the Council of Europe, which I have the honour of participating and of voting, in teleconferences and so on. In the end, we are not talking in vitro, namely in laboratory conditions, but in practice we are talking about what is happening around us. Using Latin expressions, I don't want to say in any way...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u151	In vitro.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u152	In vitro, yes, within the glass, such as the exact expression Latinist. I see Mr. Friend Latin remembers them. And I'm so glad about that. I would like to remind you that there have been many - other colleagues have said so - cases that have changed in the past in education. The issue of Latin is not to compare it to sociology. In other words, what I said before was neither to impress anyone, nor to enthusiastize anyone, nor to envy the glory of 'jury' in Latin, nor, of course, to convince you that this is what must be done and not the other, since you have your own opinion and is respected. We do not, however, detract from sociology. We did not say that sociology was abolished. And sociology in Latin terms is recorded, as Sociology, by socius, companion, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u153	It's from the Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u154	The socius, comrade in Latin, and speech in Greek. Here, however, a combination of Greek and Latin is observed together. Here, even if the classical age is here and she's married, Mr. Philly, in a very successful way. We didn't say we were abolishing sociology. We said that we want the candidates for higher schools to be examined in Latin. It is really interesting - it was said by colleagues from another party - that those who spoke about examination want sociology to be considered. It's a little contradictory, but let's put it aside. A great deal has been said about the bill, the Minister, the Undersecretaries, and my colleagues have said it, so I do not need to repeat the axes on which he is moving, his general philosophy and the changes, the important changes he brings. For English, let me say something, which may seem a little simple to you, but it's true. The truth, scientific, says man's neurons are created in his first five years. Also, capitalist truth tells that those who have money usually take nannies or teachers to their children from very small ones. So they benefit by teaching their children a foreign language, which was well or badly prevailed - we like it, we do not like it, it prevailed. What I am holding, which has been pointed out by many of my colleagues in the Opposition and by Mrs Papayannakis, is that we need to highlight our language at the highest possible level. We need not forget that this is our deposit, that words are meaning vehicles and that our language is an important element of our national identity. Another point I am going to raise is the famous issue of personal data, on the occasion of cameras in schools. I heard reactions. I read last year an interview with the former Estonian President that when he introduced computers into their schools in 2004, and then the teachers had reacted. But it makes sense to have reactions. We can't all agree. But sometimes giving the Left the impression that this technological development is equivalent to the religious way some see in 666, I think it does not honor either her or her history. The issues of personal data raised, in my opinion, are very simple. This is all done in public space. School is public space. So I don't see why we have to think that way. After all, many of the colleagues in this House and all the wings in their CV, in their Curriculum Vitae, have studied either in schools which use such methods from the past or in universities. Papanoutsos was mentioned and Papanoutsos was rightly mentioned. But it was reported incompletely. Because Papanoutsos started from 1928 to 1932 - because history is important to know and not to forget - and continued in 1957. Anyone who reads the interview that Papanoutss gave in 1980 to Leuteris Papadopoulos will see that there was a direct reference to that invitation of Constantine Karamanlis in 1957. Because a party leader said that "you did it here, EPE". Your institutional reform - it says - is reminiscent of EIA. In 1957, then, Papanoutsos was exploited by Constantine Karamanlis, by EPE. In 1963-1964, of course, he made his great reform and after 1974 many of his ideas were exploited.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u155	Georgoulis was chosen by Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u156	So I'm not going to tell who the Papanouts belongs to. It belongs to the story of Papanoutsos. But if we want to talk about reform and history, remember exactly how it happened. I'm closing with two sentences, Minister, to you. The first is about the subject of the "university" concept. It's used by many as a university overstatement. I think the university is just for the U.S.S.S.S.A. Think about it. Maybe sometime there's another welfare. And let me have one last report on the subject of conduct. A great deal has been said, a great deal has been said. I'll propose to you. Think about it. Because, anyway, we're going to vote for the bill. We believe that it has enormous changes that it brings to our education and society. Consider whether this subject of conduct should fulfil the purpose for which you have put it, that is to stop school bullying. So it should be something that starts and ends within the school period in the indicative, at the end of each school year, or some rating tabs. Because the truth is that after eighteen, the adult citizen, who votes, is now subject to laws for adult citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u157	Mr. George Mulkiotis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, education is the mirror of society and as society is evolving, our education system must clearly not stand by. On the other hand, it must be adapted to the circumstances of every time. It is not possible, however, whenever the Ministers for Education change to proclaim reforms in order to gain the title of reformer or reformer and in fact most of the interventions in the education system are structural or deregulation interventions. The Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs or as it is called - and this is because almost every time the government changes, it also has to intervene and change things as it should, so that the good of education is not only free, to the extent that it is, but also to be useful to its recipients. At a time when changes in the way knowledge is produced, implemented and disseminated would be dramatically altered, it would be tragic not to change at all levels of education. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] The crucial question, however, is what education we want, what education we want. In order to lay the foundations in our debate, our objections must reach deep, even the intentions and overthrow of party goals. Continuous changes in education policy that are combined with changes of Ministers each time, the non-harmonisation of education with the requirements of international standards and science, the constant inconvenience cannot continue. The Minister and her staff want in turn to make changes to all levels of education, having certainly caused - and we see it - a great inconvenience to the educational and student community. Hundreds of articles have been written about reformist insanity, repatriation, confusion, but also destructive ambiguity of the proposed bill. Ladies and gentlemen, education is a process of building an integrated personality and that is the only way to deal with it. Education must not be mandated and its framework is time to cease to be determined by the appetites of the government and the relevant ministry. And what exactly do you do in the year 2020? You are putting forward a false reform which largely maintains the legislative framework of the previous government, where there is no single reference to technical education, special education, minority schools and the schools of migrants. It is not, of course, the only point that I am referring to. The case of the so-called dispute over Latin and Sociology is revealing, proving that the two major parties agree on a common field: that the value of the courses, unfortunately, lies mainly with their participation in the pan-Hellenic exams and not with the very value of teaching and transfer of knowledge to students. The solution to this 'controversy' has been well-known in Europe for many years and we are talking about the national dismissal, where Latin and sociology obviously fits, but this is not a solution to the so-called reforms that this bill is being discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, in this bill there is no overall policy of assessing the factors of the educational process, but improvements to the previous policy on the supposed assessment of school units in the logic of neoliberal competitive logic. It forms a system of external evaluation of school units, but it has nothing to do with strengthening the quality of education. The lack of a proposal for supervision, guidance and training structures shows the unacceptable patent proposals for "educational confidence", which was withdrawn as a terminology but reverts under another name, demonstrating the absence of a political design and record description, but also the inconsistency with the election promises to restore the institution of the school advisor. In addition, the bill includes several arrangements of a procedural nature and of a bureaucratic type that will not have a particular impact on the country's school life and future. It is a typical example of restoring the qualification of the conduct of pupils, a choice which can only be considered as a remnant of an obsolete perception of education. I heard Mr Rusopulos carefully. I see there is a question about this issue of student conduct. Such details are a sign of the true intentions of the Ministry's leadership, which are not others, but I believe in the revival of deeply anachronistic policies and practices. It is now clear that the government's intervention policy in the critical area of education has no basis for serious discussion. The bill we are discussing is a long way from actually upgrading the school, as it goes. In some cases it attempts to implement changes that further undermine the educational result, while at the same time there is absolutely no concern to ensure that children in schools learn letters. It promotes the introduction of English into the kindergarten. I wonder how far it is from the recognition of English as the second official language of the Greek state proposed by Mrs Diamantopoulou about ten years ago. It introduces skills workshops as supposedly originality, and it is actually about rename - you heard - the Flexible Zone of Creative Activities, which has been institutionalised since 2004. It recommends, without added value, changes, the time we need as much as we ever before from a school that will provide equal education, a school with necessary changes in the analytical programs, with school workshops that will strengthen the theory with the practice, with logistical infrastructure and supervisory tools that will meet the needs of both pupils and teachers for the creative upgrading of the course. Only under these conditions can new competences be developed, new necessary competences can be developed. Unfortunately, the bill, ladies and gentlemen, is a long way from this. It does not matter that we need a school more than ever that will, on the one hand, strengthen the critical thinking of the student and prepare him for higher education and, on the other, upgrade technical and vocational education, which is crucial for the retraining of the economy and the professional rehabilitation of many pupils. Most of the problems that we face as citizens of this country would perhaps have an easier solution if we gave education the value that it deserves and did not degrade, identifying it with an education without education. Let us remember that education should be the basis of creating and shaping a well-growthed, progressive and prosperous society. It is precisely because of this great importance that many very well-thought out moves and decisions are needed. Those who are sincerely interested in merit, transparency and democratic institutions should be fighting to shield the institutions and, as a result, to protect the weakest in terms of education with careful and in-depth steps in place of complex reform decisions and then, of course, from meticulous and honest consultation on how and when to improve the quality of education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Lebanon, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by congratulating the Minister, but also Mrs Zacharakis and Mr Digalakis on their stability and commitment to the New Democracy reform programme and vision. Let me also congratulate them on the completion and suspension of the AACC special education tables. Regardless of the biased politicians, it is a success for all of us. I would also like to congratulate her personally on her self-consciousness throughout the whole debate, both in the committees and in the public debate, but also today in the House, because she managed to take self-restraint and not to respond to the personal and often indicative positions of her political opponents and to keep the level of political dialogue at a high, correct level. I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur of the New Democracy, because, in the way he analysed comprehensively and consensually, a large and substantial bill was able to order all the political parties, so we were not diverted and spoke mainly about the bill. And I must tell you that since the beginning of this term of office, which I have the honour of representing New Democracy as a Parliamentary representative, it is the first time that the debate has not really escaped at all from the draft legislation under discussion. We have not escaped both political segregation and other themes. Even Mr Varoufakis, who is always referring to the economy, spoke only about the issues of education and - if I may say so - said some very interesting things, perhaps in contrast to some times. But he gave food for thought. So education unites us all as a topic, of course maintaining our many ideological differences. However, we are all aware of the need to upgrade it and substantial reform it. Let me also note a sense of irony that exists in the Chamber mainly from positions of representatives of the Left, the opposition of the Left, who accuse the policy of the New Democracy in education as a policy that favours the ruling class, accuse the school that the New Democracy wants and visions as a school in the ruling class, when they themselves have studied, but their children are also studying in these schools that are implied by the left opposition that we want to promote in the public school. Before I enter the bill, let me refer to the murder of George Floyd, because some things have been said that I think they need an answer. Obviously, this is a brutal murder of a police officer, a murder dictated by racist motives, a murder that my colleague Mr. Friends has compared with the murders of Physsa, Lucman, Gregopoulou and Caltezas, a comparison in our view unfair and impeccable for our country, not for us, for the rule of law we have, for our culture and for the whole of our society.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u161	Murder from cops...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u162	We are a European country that respects its citizens and human rights. We condemn violence and racism from wherever it comes. I have heard very interesting statements, of course, from Mr Philly. I don't want to stand up to you. You know how much I respect and monitor your positions, even if our ideological differences bring us to opposing camps and demarcations. For us, for the Government, for the New Democracy, the basic principles of a modern educational system are equal access opportunities through the strengthening of the public education system, but also noble speech with the private education system. It is the strengthening of the "we" towards "e" and awareness of modern global problems, the European orientation at the same time as the culture of national identity, its connection to the digitisation of the labour market and to entrepreneurship, the continuous modernisation of the infrastructure and the continuous improvement and training of teaching staff who are not evaluated and self-assessed. Mr. Castanides has been placed here and has asked for a lot. It is open to the Government to hear how it considers that this should be done, since it is in agreement with it and, above all, how training should be carried out. This draft law therefore represents an important step in these directions that I have mentioned. The general view, as Mrs Kerameos said, is upward, introducing changes from kindergarten to higher education. With regard to what has been said in the debate today - above all - for a lack of dialogue, I think we are all aware that this is not the case. Firstly, electronic consultation has shown that it has had greater involvement than any other bill. Secondly and above all, in my opinion, this bill, in essence, entered public consultation in November 2018, when the New Democracy programme on education was announced, when along with the issue of asylum at universities, which you raised, was the cornerstone of our policy, a policy for which we fought in the pre-election period, a policy for which the Greek people were applauding us with their vote in the elections last year. It is precisely this programme that we are coming to implement today, since we have been elected on this agenda. So how do you say that there was not enough dialogue and what do you mean, at last, dialogue if it is not enough for this bill? I wanted to say two words on the subject of personal data in telecommunications. Contrary to what the Opposition has accused us of, from what I have understood, there is no need for a single name or e-mail to connect a student to this famous platform of teleinformatics, which, incidentally, we must take note again of those who have not understood it, is given free of charge. The pseudonym may be used, while personal data are not processed, in addition to the very purpose of the training. According to the Privacy Authority, it is legal and since you like to tell us what the authorities say, I wonder how you ignore it here. With regard to the programmes with tuition fees to foreign nationals, we have heard the representatives of SYRIZA accusing us of the fact that we are practically going to bypass Article 16 of the Constitution. The behaviour of the Party of Officers, however, is essentially in contradiction with what it has said. If you were to judge that this provision was unconstitutional, why, after you said it again throughout the previous period, did you not apply for a plenary vote today if it is indeed unconstitutional? To decide the House sovereign over constitutionality. But because you know that there is no such issue, you implicitly put it under the carpet to get it into the shower. In fact, apart from the issue of unconstitutionality, Union law does not prohibit - and we understood this very well - the exclusion of the Greeks from the programmes that they establish. Union law requires the elimination of all measures whereby nationals of another Member State are treated more stringently or their legal or factual situation is less favourable than nationals who are in the same situation. I am convinced, the majority of Greeks are convinced, and you remain convinced, and you are not having a problem, you do not raise a question of reverse discrimination. As far as the kindergarten introduced by the government is concerned, it is precisely in order to broaden the linguistic perception of children. We have also seen with interest that Mr Varoufakis, who has an international and Greek experience, has put himself in a positive position - if we understandably - on this proposal. We understand and listen very carefully to the opposite scientific considerations that the introduction of a foreign language at such an early age and above all - and I add - to children with learning difficulties, can create some problems. But there is no - and you must know it better than everyone - a universal and only scientific view. In fact - and the government has pointed this out - it is not introducing a foreign language lesson. It introduces an experiential approach to the recognition of the second language, which already applies to many private kindergartens in our country and, of course, to many public and private kindergartens throughout the world. So we carry good practices to the public, because we want equal opportunities and access for all pupils to quality and advanced education programmes. We do not only allow those who have the financial opportunity to choose the private kindergarten, but we legislate to exist, to exist for everyone. That's how we think we're stepping up public education. I have listened carefully to all the debate on Latin and sociology and what Mr Rousopoulos said and what has been said. I do not want to go too far on this subject in Latin. But I would like to point out that under no circumstances does the government or our resignation want to reduce the importance of sociology as a lesson. And, of course, we do not want to let anyone indulge in sociology as a party. And, of course, we do not allow anyone of you to blame Sociology or categorise it ideologically. I am pleased that the rapporteur for the Officerial Vice-President, Mr Philis, has made reference to the founder of Sociology in our country, Panagiotis Kanellepoulou - he was the first to take the seat - and in this way he has tried to show, if I have understood correctly, that sociology cannot be ruled out by anyone, nor should one react to it dogmatically. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, as in the same way there are no left-wing and right-wing courses and left-wing and right-wing studies, so there are no left-wing and right-wing initiatives for kindergartens and primary schools. With one of the most important areas of the bill that New Democracy has included in its education programme, it recommends strengthening and extending experimental and pilot schools. In the context of this planned extension, I would like to stress the importance of having at least one model experimental not only in each region, but as we said in the morning in each county. Our view is that the better. In my constituency of Ioannina, when this bill came out in consultation, and I understand that Ioannina does not have a model school, all the clubs are already moving - and I work with them - so that we can propose the time by the procedure that is in place precisely for such a public standard school to enable children who do not have the money, who do not have access to the private school to have a training that is at the forefront of it. It is important that we do this, both for the region and for those who do not have the financial capacity. In this context, we are very pleased that you have a place for experimental schools. At least I fully share your view that we would like all schools to be excellent. But is it possible for all schools to be perfect? Nowadays, were all the schools excellent? The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the government that stands here today and treats you, institutionalizes the expansion of models precisely because it sees them as a tug, as a model of operation for the other public schools. SYRIZA's position on this issue is, I fear, inferred to populism, just as the Papandreou Government in 1982 has succumbed to the framework law that again abolished these very standard schools. And the results of that dogmatic perception and reform are still experienced in our public education. I honor you, Mr Philly, but it does not suit you and, above all, I believe that it is wrong for you. In practice, the depreciation of the model schools reinforces the downward equation is, in my view, classic and ultimately works in favour of private schools and schools in the rich. If we want to talk about equality of equal opportunities, which is essential equality - and this is an obligation for the state to ensure, particularly in education and the government - that is to say, it is guaranteed through a strong, organised, well-trained and equipped school, that is to say, through a quality and, above all, a public quality school. This school is trying to create, this school has been envisioned by Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the officials of the New Democracy and in the direction of creating this school is also this bill, which we are discussing today. And I sincerely regret that the whole of the opposition is voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Lazarides has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with two very simple assumptions with which I do not think anyone really disagrees. Admission first: Everything is a matter of education. Admission second: Adaptability is a characteristic of intelligence. These two features may be millennial, but they certainly are not selfish about our educational things. Certainly an educational system should be aimed at ensuring essential education, and adaptability is a characteristic, especially in the times that we live must be at the forefront. I would like to explain that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has shown in this unprecedented situation extremely reflexible, adapting all policy areas to the needs created by the pandemic. The health system was modernised, the state acquired digital governance and education continued to operate at all levels, both digitally and with the physical presence of students and students. And that's how an end came to the logic of the lost semester that acted as an alibi for various types of hostages. This draft law, ladies and gentlemen, meets the wider need to adapt to the new requirements, gives all the supplies and at the same time cultivates all the virtues, principles and values that an integrated human must have. This is a draft law which is consistently in line with the needs of all levels of educational activity with changes beginning at the kindergarten, such as the introduction of new themes and the introduction of activities in English and reaching examinations for admission to higher education. It is a draft law that envisions and implements a new school, a school that marks the unreturnable departure from the era of sterile knowledge and papaya and the arrival at the time of critical thinking, creativity, initiative and empathy, which cultivates the values of ecological awareness, social responsibility through the incorporation of values, volunteering, road safety and respect for diversity, which promotes wider culture and global education through the class which promotes evaluation as value. An evaluation based on the three-fold programming, self-assessment and external evaluation, which faces the scourge of intra-school violence with the establishment of the School Life Adviser, which enhances excellence through the concept of continuous self-assurance of school standards and experimental knowledge and the new educational tools of experimental schools, which more effectively organises the staffing of school units through the provision of dual moleculosis for those teachers in difficult areas, thus correcting chronic diseases, which gives new potential to universities through the promotion of the extroversion of Greek HEIs by establishing foreign-language programmes and cooperation with the foreign language associations. And since I think that we should contribute with new ideas, for my part, I would like to formulate, Minister, for the future of public dialogue a proposal which I think would have a positive impact on educational matters. I therefore propose the establishment of a University of Rural Development and Economics and not of individual schools or departments, given that the government is already investing in the primary sector, but also an equivalent for tourism management and promotion. Ladies and gentlemen, a total of what we are debating today is a draft law for which all the reactions of opposition are justified. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. When I say it is justified that the predictions we are discussing today are like the bell of the school, which sounds to some as an annoying reminder of their uncertainties and others as the beginning of a new course towards excellence. It's because the objections of Officer Opposition are identical to the old, the anachronistic, the sterile, the stagnation, the non-progressive, that is, that SYRIZA represents over time. They express a submerged system, a system in which only minor party purposes are served, such as when the occupations in the name of democracy were a way of political pressure and extortion, as in the vast majority of cases nothing had to do with issues of the university community. Like when ASEAN and ADI were often dense in news reports not for their academic performance but for being a man of infringence. A system that defends the culture of minor effort, which treats excellence as a retsian and evaluation as some kind of medieval torture for the evaluators, reflecting an educational concept that depleted its reformist momentum in the abolition of morning prayer, the possibility of exempting students from the teaching of religious and angular search for the Roman student movement to take over the university's self-protection against the occupations of the "Ruvikon". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of the opposite. We create an educational system that makes our children more easily able to touch their dreams. We are turning schools into lively knowledge fields - I am ending, Madam President - into talent and skill tanks in the greenhouses of politically sound attitudes. We are making an investment in the long term away from the logic of looking for short-term party benefits. An investment, however, whose results we will be operating in a few years from now when we ourselves may not be here. However, what we are ensuring today is that those and those who are here will probably be more responsible, more trained and more politically thinking of us. This is because this school will have finished the creation of which we are legislating today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u165	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mrs SYRIZA has the floor and Mr Fotillas is being prepared from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Your Honor. The subject of today's debate, as well as the debate in the last few days at the meeting of committees, the Committee on Educational Affairs, is essentially the school model and therefore what kind of school at all levels wants and seeks to establish the New Democracy Government. I believe and believe that, first, you want a school fully and unilaterally adapted to the needs of the market. This means that you are pursuing a school that will prepare, for example, the cheap workforce, which the ruling class and elite want so that, with these features, with the "h" skills to unlock screws, operate "height" the machine and speak and a little from a foreign language equal - barely to communicate with international bosses. Secondly, you want a school of conservative, neo-conservative, a school that ostracizes the development of critical social thinking, so you are dismissing sociology, or at least abolishing it from a globally tested course, when multiple university schools are based on a social and sociological knowledge base. Third, you want a school of punishment. That is why you are introducing, in the fifth article of the bill, the indication of the conduct of pupils in schools and high school in all certificates of study and evidence of dismissal. In fact, under Article 61 and paragraph 1, you are giving this provision retroactive value regulation and you say that you also wish to apply to students in secondary education before the school year 2020 and 2021. At this point I should like to stand and refer myself to the report by the Scientific Service of the Parliament, which reminds us Members and other citizens that according to the recent case law of the Council of State, the 2019 case law, the evidence of formal qualifications and the certificates of study are documentary evidence of the performance and completion of a school-training phase rather than of non-relevant relevance to these facts. The Scientific Committee continues to state that it should therefore be clarified whether it is relevant to indicate the conduct of the holders of these titles with the purposes of their publication, which, as I said before, consist in demonstrating the successful completion of a training phase. In short, what is it about here in this special report? That the dismissals simply certify - essentially, we would say - the completion of a specific educational stage and should not include unnecessarily, with this cognitive, encyclopedic, educational purpose, information. However, I would like to raise this issue from his pedagogical side with two questions. Are there gifted and talented children with derogating behavior? Was Einstein a disciple quiet and obedient to the social norms? And I will insist, once again, on the report by the Scientific Committee, which raises the matter or, at least, on whether the provision in question, namely the indication of conduct in certificates of studies, serves the purpose of public interest and respects the principle of proportionality, bearing in mind that the conduct in the dismissal at the time the title was obtained, will reveal to the international data which can lead to an unfavourable assessment, stigmatisation or even discrimination, particularly in recruitment procedures. I think further comment is superfluous. I return pedagogically: we should ask ourselves very seriously whether it is right for one or one adolescent because of "h" behaviour in a given age phase to be stigmatized for the rest of his life and therefore, for example, not to be able to work. Is it really fair, ladies and gentlemen, for a teenager who has the misfortune to grow up, perhaps, in a difficult family environment with problems, such as poverty, alcoholism, domestic violence, because as an adult society we have never beennd over its real problem, to be stigmatized forever? Really who's to blame when some young people and young people are in violation of the law? What role do teachers and school have to play? Why are there no recruitments of qualified scientific staff, such as social workers and school psychologists, who have all the scientific training for appropriate and timely diagnostic approach to derogating issues in the critical juvenile age? Why are you seeking to make a punishment school? That's a question, so I don't get wrong. Why do you want to impose social condolences? Fourthly, you want schools of many different speeds, specific school units to perpetuate the dominant elite, school units moderate and school units under the mediterranean for some poor poor poor children in poor districts. Your whole philosophy of schools of many different speeds is condensed in what Mr Mitsotakis expressed as an opinion of the professional future of students from Peristeri. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] English and kindergarten and I am closing with this subject, Madam President, and thank you. I would like to say this introductory terms: it has been mentioned that English will not be taught at this level of education, but will be approached by experiential method and learning. I would like to remind you, without prejudice, that experiential learning is a modern innovative way of education and an element of education is modern teaching through experiential learning. I believe in general that all these conceptual tools to do with pedagogicals, whether infanthood is suitable for foreign language learning, have not been sufficiently discussed at the meetings of the Committee on Educational Affairs. We haven't heard from all the teachers in pedagogical classes. And you know what? We should not hesitate to let infants enjoy their infancy. The kindergarten is the first socialization area. The infant even at the evolutionary psychological stage that is difficult to separate from his mother. It often identifys the face of the kindergarten with the mother or operates in kindergarten as a substitute. So it is extremely difficult, and perhaps jeopardized, to introduce other specialties in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u167	Madam President, please, you have gone far beyond your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u168	I shall conclude, Madam President. To avoid talking about the misuse of the Greek by adolescents, which can be linked exactly to their frequent friction with the English language. So what should we do? To teach Greeks better, and certainly to approach infancy differently on strong scientific, pedagogical knowledge and not in a hurry. I would like to close by saying that in conclusion the bill needs to be withdrawn precisely because we and the educational institutions believe that it has not been discussed sufficiently, far and wide both in committee and outside in society. Most of all, however, as SYRIZA Members - Progressive Alliance we want a completely different educational model, a school of democratic, open to dialogue, open to society, really progressive. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the tolerance that might exist will be one minute, not more, please, because there are too many Members who have not spoken and we will be going too late. You understand, it's too hard. I invite Mr. Fotella from New Democracy to Step. Immediately after Mr. Giokas was prepared by the Communist Party of Greece. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was thinking about whether it is meaningful to compare ourselves with provisions relating to the organisation and functioning of our schools and universities, when it is clear that we are abyssed by what we see in public education. After all, I have come to the conclusion that yes, even if our differences in relation to public education look like and sound trimmed or heard, it is important that they be heard and discussed at parliamentary level too. In any case, it is absolutely healthy to have this different concept, as we start from different ideological origins and different from our political objectives. So both me and Mr Friends have fully agreed that we are radically disagreeing! I, for example, believe in the usefulness of private schools, as well as that of public standards and experimental schools. I believe that private schools are part of public education, are complementary to state education, but many times with very great success. I cannot focus on the fact that there are enough - not all, but enough - private schools with a degree of success in the highest education institutions 90%, 95%, 96%, 97% and 98%. Well, it can't be, it's obvious that something good will do these schools since 98% of students enter higher institutions. Watch out, what are the only public schools that compete with good private? But the standards and experimental schools they present themselves, and many times even better, success rates. In fact, while only some of the private schools have so high indicators of success, public standards and experimental schools have all - zero except - so high rates. That is why we say that we need to create more public standards and experimental schools in our country, so that they have more and more children as well as the same facilities as children whose parents can send them to the good private schools. Mr. Friends on the other hand and a portion of colleagues from the Qualified Opposition have a completely different view on the issue. Mr Philis believes - and he states this without any reservations - that these schools are a carcinoma for public education. He says - listen, it's important - that school without bad students is not a good school.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u171	You're talking backwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u172	And what schools have good students or especially good students? Good private and public, standards and experimentals. So, according to Mr Philly, what we need to do is not increase the success rate of all public schools but abolish the good schools, public or private. In fact, we've never seen it before. And my colleague, Mrs Anagnastopoulou, says that school standards are fascist, because they were founded, she says, on silk. So she doesn't care to see what these schools do and have such a great success, what good they do. She cares when they were founded. And to justify that sighing she resorts to inaccurate and untrue. Why are we all forgetting that our country's historical model schools were founded either at the beginning or at the end of the nineteenth century and not at Metaxas? However, I repeat that no matter how much these conflicts look like old and trimmed and thousands of them, they are essential and healthy. What I do not know is whether it is healthy and I do not know whether it is a problem, is that Mr Friends and those who think like Mr Friends, do not disagree with me or Mrs Kerameo or with Mr Mitsotakis, they do not disagree with the New Democracy alone, but disagree with a large portion of their own party. They disagree among others with their own Chief. For Mr Tsipras, of course, we cannot believe that he agrees with Mr Philly that schools which have primarily good pupils, public or private, are a carcinoma. Otherwise, Mr Tsipras would not send his children to private foreign schools, which have a degree of success in higher institutions like those I have mentioned. And you know why he sends them, Mr. Friend? It's simple. He sends them, because he wants the best for his children or, anyway, what he perceives as the best. He chooses to send his children to a school where he thinks they'll get most supplies as far as possible. In his honor, I would say, Mr Tsipras who puts the future of his children above political costs and the party. And he doesn't believe it, because schools are private, but because they're fine. These figures are called, and the arithmetics are not an opinion, they must have their own. The point is, of course, that Mr. Tsipras, who can send his children to good schools, has deprived the possibility of thousands of Greeks, abolishing their standards, too, to send their children to similar good schools. So the problem, Mr Philly, is not the disagreement between us, as long as it is disagreement between you and me. And the question is who will prevail. Will you convince Mr. Tsipras or your Mr. Tsipras? And it is important, because until you find them, the country lacks a worthwhile and constructive officer-to-people, and that is not good for anyone. In any case, until you find it, we'll do the job. We will do what we promised the Greek people in the run-up to the election. We will upgrade our schools so that they do not just transfer formal knowledge, but also focus on developing life, technology and science skills to students. We are creating schools that will develop new themes, such as volunteering, road safety, prevention of dependency, mutual respect and diversity, robotics, entrepreneurship, sexual education. We create schools that will not follow, but will guide the rest of the world, there will be a step forward, as appropriate to the history and heritage of the Greeks. That is why we want to learn to our children English from the kindergarten and not because we are serving Mr Trump's interests and some other crap that we have heard in this Chamber. Finally, we want and create self-powered, autonomous and extroversion universities and technological institutions, directly linked to the labour market, which have the potential to set up foreign-language undergraduate programmes alone, to establish joint study programmes with foreign institutions, to develop and select themselves the sector that they want to specialize whether research or another is. We want, finally, our children to know that there are rules of dignity and justice in the university environment. That's why we're changing the rules of the relocations. Are we done here? Oh, no. We're starting here. Our aim is to create the schools of the 21st century, the fourth industrial revolution, the schools worthy of the Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u173	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u174	Madam President, I would like to make a political statement as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u175	Here, my colleague, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u176	I would like to say to Mr Fotella that he is showing great misfortune of arguments and, indeed, I did not expect him to use personal reports on family affairs for the Chief of Staff. In any case, Mr Colleague, I would like to point out to you that the SYRIZA government has made a coordinated policy in terms of upgrading education as a whole, and it is not the case that it has abolished the standards of schools. Historical school patterns continue and work properly. So, I would say, let us miss such references. It is inappropriate for you and it is inappropriate for your party.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u177	That was personal. I'll have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u178	Mr Colleague, I think there's no need to answer that. What you have said, the Greek people have heard them, has listened to the Mrs. So everyone takes their own conclusions. Mr. Giokas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u179	Before Mr. Fotillas makes the 21st century school, let them make sure that the gaps created by the pandemic and teachers belonging to vulnerable groups are covered. There are currently schools with gaps, which are still in the midst of pandemic and uncertain what is to be done since September and with a great deal of stress about what is going to happen in September. As for the bill, it is undoubtedly a bill of reactionary, anachronistic and authoritarian, a bill that encloses the entire ideological rust of the New Democracy. Where does that come from? Does it only stem from the issues of conduct, penalties or cameras in the school halls that you are promoting? Of course, it also comes from there, but not from there. Mostly it stems from the overall strategy that serves this bill, a step-by-step strategy that has been being promoted for a decade, at least since 2011 by the Diamantopoulou Act, by all governments and by the New Democracy and PASOK and by SYRIZA, which aims to make education even greater attached to the needs of capital and the directions of international organisations such as the European Union, the OECD and go by saying. It is no coincidence that all this decade, even if a government was changing arrangements made by previous governments, no government, however, was inconsistent with the main pillars and the main points of this strategy. Nor does the current Government of New Democracy touch on key points of the previous laws, such as Diamantopoulou Law, the Arvanitopoulos Law, the Gavroglou Law. And now comes the law of Keramea. Each government was building and catching the thread from where the previous government left it and pushing it further. You had another element in common, too, very democratic. Each of these governments chose to vote for these bills when the educational institutions were closed. Another chose Easter, another chose summer, and you were comforted by the closure of the pandemic. What is this common strategy for? It is recommended that a system of education, which is fully served at all levels - in education, in economics, in economics, in labour, incoherently - be set up to the requirements of the chapter on how school should be, about what young people and, of course, - which is directly involved in the educational process - on how tomorrow's workers should be, flexible, semi-trained, wandering between unemployment, half-qualified and poorly paid work and, above all, disciplinary. And this strategy is implemented with a vehicle the so-called "assessment", which is not something abstract and neutral, as you go to the puppet and misleadingly to show it, as if there were a neutral and abstract evaluation. It is an assessment of whether the above-mentioned anti-grass objectives are being promoted. This strategy is also promoted by sub-funding, the self-sufficiency of schools and institutions, which has been a declared objective of all governments and leads to categorisation, denomination of skills at the expense of general education - which is also a key point of reference for this bill - the conversion of the school into an examination arena, with parents putting a deeper hand in the pocket and opening of schools to various extra-educational and extra-educational institutions, from non-governmental organisations to businesses and, of course, the "territorial cow" of connecting the school to the market. This policy, this strategy you all served all of you, another less, another with a more conservative and authoritarian cloak, another with more technocratic, another with supposedly more progressive wrapping. But basically you have all served this policy. Just to remind you: SYRIZA, who goes out on the tiles for the anachronism of the New Democracy, was the same that in the recent constitutional review he did not dare to question the most anachronistic position in the educational system and, indeed, reflected in the level of the Constitution which is what? - That the educational process must promote religious consciousness. He didn't question it, he didn't even propose to change. Let us remember that the logic of skills was his own policy, as well as to point out that televisual education, which is gratuitous to every sensationality of education as a key element of the relationship between children and others, was included - if you remember - in the so-called Liakou conclusion on SYRIZA, which was accepted at this point of positive acceptance by the Ministry of Education at that time. So what New Democracy is doing today is to consistently and with fanaticism this anti-educational model that other countries have been implementing for years and some have been implementing it for decades. And just because this model has a long history, it can also be done safe valuation for where it led and for whom it benefited. For example, the United States of America, for which much has been done due to the current situation, have been the pioneers of this model and if you are trying to read out some serious analyses of this period - not the analyses of the JRC - you will find that the American educational system is being accused of being one of the main factors for the reproduction and exacerbation of social and racial conflicts, which are the background to the mass popular mobilisations of this period. These mobilisations are not just about the murder of the African American, they are about unemployment, they are about poverty, they are about the dead of the pandemic on the one hand and the lack of a elementary public health system on the other hand, they are about the interventions and wars of the Americans supplying racist and racial hatred - here, even if the governments of all the parties were the first-timers of these plans - but also about the educational system leading to categorisation, it leads to ghettoization, racism, and misinformation on the other, even for the graduates of the richest and most popular colleges. It is characteristic that Michael Moore quotes in his book "White Idiots" where he says that graduates of Yale, Harvard, Stanford, who may otherwise play entrepreneurship on the fingers in multiple responses did not know to answer when the American Civil War was made. This is the school and education system of the market, the school and the educational system of the most barbaric capitalist system. That is why - and I conclude, Madam President - the current mobilisation of students, students, parents and teachers, despite the fact that the institutions were closed down - the institutions are closed down - no matter how much you try to slander them, they are fair, they are necessary and they need to be lasting and enduring. And they can last, endurance and effectiveness, if they aim at it exactly, at the core of this policy, to those powers that served and serve this policy, but above all, to a system and economy that needs this reactionary, authoritarian and class education system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Katsafandos from New Democracy has the floor now and immediately after Mr Zouraris from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, at the beginning of my position, to congratulate all of them on the educational and administrative staff and also on the political leadership of the Ministry of Education, which, under these difficult and unprecedented conditions which we have all experienced through the coronary pandemic, while the natural training areas, our schools, were closed, but at the same time, access to knowledge to all pupils has remained open. And that was a very great success and something that was not self-evident. In addition, in addition to the teachers who made these titanic efforts, I would like to congratulate all those who have offered unfavorable material, such as tablets and other computers, where they have shown their social offer on these difficult and critical times that our country has experienced. And I will not avoid risking, confronting and passing - if you like - all these funny excuses which have been heard in connection with tele-education. We must and we must recognise, ladies and gentlemen, that the world is changing and we must always be prepared for any difficulty we have to face, taking the whole of it as a whole, with the success of the students as a whole, with access to knowledge and education for all the Greeks as a whole. And that was the necessary - if you want - effort that this government has made and it has been impressive. Ladies and gentlemen, Adamantios Koras had said that the state that does not have education is a building in the sand. So important is the notion of education for humans, for society, for every country. And, indeed, I am sad that after this crisis that we have experienced, unfortunately, even today around the issue of education, party practices of revolutionary exercises around self-evidently, without realizing that what is an inappropriate condition, is to be able to look at the issue of education in terms of the future, to give our children, young children, all these supplies that are necessary to claim a better future and better luck, competing with their classmates and their peers around the world. And this bill, this piece of legislation brought by the government and by this ministry, contains important changes that concern immediate issues for the preparation of the new school year and the new academic year. They are very important changes in the education programmes of the new school year, which are essential for the effective placement of teachers, so that there are no pupils of two speeds, that we do not experience the phenomenon in remote and island areas of having pupils who go after four, five and six months, teachers who have to teach in schools which are necessary and have to compete - for example - with their classmates who have schools which have no problem and which meet all the positions of teachers. We also see, in this draft law, educational choices for standards and experimental schools and, of course, changes in the status of conversions, which should be known before the computer is completed, as well as the start of the process - finally - of the evaluation of the educational project. Ladies and gentlemen, people are changing, education is changing, and we must not be absent from this change. We must be pioneers, we must be ahead, and we must give as many supplies as possible to our young people and young people currently in schools, and this draft law does, a reform that goes perpendicular to the whole education system, from kindergarten to university, a reform that tries to lay foundations for tomorrow's school, for a school that will make young people sure of the dangers and challenges they will face. And you know, I was sad to hear all this conversation that happened around whether English should be taught in kindergartens. It is shameful to discuss it, ladies and gentlemen, and of course they are unacceptable and all these objections which have been heard in this Chamber are allegedly coming to the American universities and are asking us to enter English into kindergartens. Do American universities need to introduce English into Greek kindergartens? Are we serious or have we lost the train? Even Bulgaria, ladies and gentlemen, does it teach English in kindergartens? You know, it's bad to try and disperse all the time and especially on the issue of education. Is it bad, ladies and gentlemen, that we are moving on with the implementation of skills workshops from kindergarten to high school? Do you disagree on that? Do you disagree that children should be informed and trained in terms of technology, ecology, road safety, addiction, sexual education and racism? Is it wrong that we put our backs on and try to solve and combat the phenomenon of intra-school violence? When all you have done on intra-School violence is one day of the year not to teach and talk to children about intra-School violence, about this gangrana, about this dangerous phenomenon that we all have to deal with together? You know, you may talk about your class enemy that is private education, but you did nothing in the matter. We have tried - permanently trying - to lead to equality downwards. That's your plan. But with this project, all you can do, ladies and gentlemen, it is to strengthen private education. And you're told by a man who didn't study at a private school or at a private university. Public school finished, public university finished, postgraduate at a public university, but I felt the need to change something. I'd like to stand on two things. The first thing has to do with the transcripts. Is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, that someone who has written nine - and with this equation you were doing with the HEIs, which was made only in words, nothing more was done, Mr Philly, did you just get the TEIs and did it, absolutely nothing - to be able to enter a school in which someone else has written nineteen?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u182	It can't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u183	Of course it may, Mr Philly, and that was the problem of this year's translations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u184	It's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u185	Have a look at it. That was the problem of this year's rewrites. So what do we do? We are establishing academic criteria, we are setting criteria which have to do with the social nature that we must show in the relocations, we are strengthening multi-texts and third-text families. That's our debt. This is the aid we need to give to those who really need it. Is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not understand that the possibility of setting up foreign-language undergraduate programmes creates another path to higher education? Can't we make Greece a pole of educational attraction? Do we not believe in dream and vision, based on our history and our position in arts and letters, that this country can become a pole of educational attraction, so that we can lure the whole world to come to study at Greek universities? Are we afraid of comparison? Are we afraid we're not capable? Are we afraid we don't have good universities? Here is our capacity, and here in practice we should show what we can do. Finally, I have to thank the Minister for the just demand, because it was heard by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, that the historical models of schools have remained, that the SYRIZA has maintained the historical models of schools. That's what you said a moment ago. Fortunately, Minister, for listening to our request, Rallios School finally becomes a model. And you know, for some people it may be a cancer, but for us we believe that excellence can be the driving force for society to evolve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Zuraris has the floor from SYRIZA now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u187	My respects to the President or President-in-Office. I'll say two incidents that most of you weren't even born. In May '68 I enter a room in law school in Paris, with the impression of the general mess, etc. And what do I see? I see Michael Papayannakis sitting in the postgraduate department, who did a PhD in the economy with his teachers and students, many, in Rue Souflot, in the center, i.e. May of '68. That's what I'm talking about for my good Loverdo, the MP who talked about these occupations and unworthy things. In the abundance of May of '68 Michael Papayannakis, with his pipe, took lessons and bazaars, the most of them, that is, the reforms that we wanted to make, the revolutions with May of '68 etc. That's what happened then. In 1974 I was a general secretary at the largest federation of universities in France and was responsible for Paris, the Department of Political Sciences, Sociology and all these "usable", the "left" and Sonier Seite invited us, because then Ziskar President had just come out and had first created an institution called the Minister of the Universities. She was a lady who was a geographer. The team wasn't flying, but anyway. Suddenly there is a great old man who was from Ecole des Chartes, the Greek inscription. Mrs. Sonier Sejten, then - she's had the female genus, I don't know - she was about to make us agents, so we can get out on the market to find money to fund our research and our operation. He wanted to do what he wants to do in this draft law. The poor old hag had completely lost it. It says "we and we since the 12th century in Sorbonis are making maps and Greek inscriptions. What should I sell on the market?" I say to him, 'You will make wrapping paper and sell it on the market'. I was progressive as a Left. Of course, Sonier Sejten did, because she said that subsidies and financing would be made by the state to the state, to the public as a rule. Any schools that have the possibility will immediately take the money from the state. Not our own schools. Mine, the School of Political Science, can. The others, the polytechnics, etc., if they can do some transactions based on the central programming that the university or the polytechnics are doing and not the bishops who want to get in, as Nikos said the other day. That was the third one. I would like to address my colleague. If you have the responsibility of the Greek-language seat. This story's not right. In Marupolis, the secretary has been gone for four months because of a coronary. It's broken up. I've been notified by the Ministry's office that applications for revocation have been launched. I mean, not only will this year not work, but it is in danger that it will not work from September, because our teachers will not. Make an effort. It's half as good as Jufi. To break Marupolis a bit and put a coordinator in Romania across. But you still have a little more size than Alexander the Great and the Soviet Union. I mean, you have about thirty million square miles to Vladivostock. A second and third coordinator must be introduced. There's no other way. It's impossible. When we were in Odessa, the conference came about a hundred and twenty attendants, of whom some thirty were not Greek or Greek. They were Azerbaijanis who loved Greece and had learned Greek. He had enchanted them with Ritchos and Kazantzakis. They were teaching Greek. We couldn't send. There must be a second and third seat. I'm gonna come to those win-wins of mine. When I went to see what's going on with the evaluations, I heard the Minister, I think, reporting a statistic about a university of ours, that we're in the four hundred and fifty-fourth quarters of the thousands of universities. That Chinese ridiculous thing. You said that in the investigation we're 56%. Because, he says, however, our universities didn't have foreign students, the average fell to 26%. You said we had 7% on foreign students. Do you realize what kind of crap this average is? Do you know what he says, colleague, Elliot? Where the average ceases to exist. Because the average is stupid. It's a nonexistent thing. I was teaching the very right-wing Alexis De Tokville in Paris. I've been in love with Tokville for 50 years. I was teaching him, and I had thirty students. I didn't have any foreign students. Because I had thirty students I taught better or worse tokville? When I didn't have foreign students, did I drop to 7%? So, what if I teach without foreign students being able to get worse? What's that? What's that? Not yours, Minister. Shanghai's statistics. I'll end up with something for my friend Thodore. Hoc censeo et preterea projectura e delenda est.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u189	Madam President, I would like to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u190	You're welcome, Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to say to my dear colleague in the House that I did not speak for an average. These indicators in these assessments are not averages. They are complex ratings which have individual ratings, research indicators, teaching, the percentage of teachers per student, the internationalisation of the university and, on the basis of these indicators, you get a ranking so that you can compare different universities with one another. I have not spoken in any way about average terms and therefore everything you said about statistics was rather out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Pipili, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u193	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. You have in front of you a sample of the carcinoma called a model school. I'm a master of Marasley's exquisite school. I can say I'm too proud of my past. In this school I have to say, I can say - together with my family, of course - what I have become. I still remember my master, the glorious Diamantopoulos. Equally proud are many graduates from the country's experimental classic schools and also from the famous 1st Plaka Standard. I am very pleased that you remembered at the Ministry that it is the first school in Greece, the creation of Kapodistrias in 1829. So it was a historic obligation to come back to what it was. Apart from trade unionists, apart from opposition, except teachers, except those who move, there is society next to this issue. I think there are many people missing her and opposition itself. I've listened very carefully since this morning to these extremes of class bill, class society. Aren't you tired of saying that anymore? Societies have proved it in the last elections. What class society exists, when in the curriculum vitae of the great Greeks so far it has been reported that they originated by 95% from rural areas, by poor families and have succeeded so high. So stop saying that this bill serves foreign interests, local interests, pluralism. Stop saying it in general. All the great scientists and old politicians from public schools came out. This society, what it was jealous of, what it admired from private individuals, can tell the Minister that it is seen to be realised and that is the big profit, because the standards are now twenty-eight, and the experimental thirty-four, which means that they are spread to both Lefkano and the province, so none of what you're saying is true. Very important is that you institutionalize skill workshops. Education, ladies and gentlemen, is not a unique concept. It means education primarily, socialization, equality, tolerance, critical thinking, which is what is being called for. How many years do we say "why is there not sexual education in Greece?" How many years? It can be done. Also, why don't we save from happy families, who don't even know what road safety and road treatment means, robotics that are the future, protection against natural disasters, most importantly, security with the school-life board facing these terrible phenomena of child abuse? Evaluation: forbidden word only for trade unionists and obsessed and ideologically complex. Evaluation. The trader is assessed by the client, the journalist from the measurements, the politician from the votes. In general, successful people accept and accept evaluation. Only teachers in Greece - I don't know why - are they afraid of being illiterate. But, of course, it's not. And it is a reproach for the skilled - who are too many - state officials in education or total refusal to evaluate. Oleme denies everything. He didn't make any suggestions, but no suggestions. OLEME is civil servants. Of course, as is the case, civil servants usually take off very softly. OLEME's making strikes, good time today. However, we have not been concerned with, we have to do an internal investigation - such as the Ministry of Public Order or the Ministry of the Interior, the internal investigations or the FBI - to tell us whether all those who are treasured and releasing the popular layers, with private care centres at home and the stock exchanges in general are aliens, or whether it is a big piece that is black and illegal in the morning they teach in public school and at night they do what I have said. English. Unequivocally, and even crazy things have been heard, which I do not want to comment on, as much more laughed. The kids from two years old - I know from my sister grandson - they're scoring. Children, by learning the etymology of words that they already use, as they "stage", "fast", "blugar", will at least learn what the scoring means in their original language. Let's go to the last because I want to respect time, Madam President. I received a lot of e-mails from various mothers, mostly, and parents. I denounce it because it is not possible for there to be such a scourge from trade unions and from political groups. But I was astonished to be so bad and violent in opinions from mothers and parents. I refuse to communicate with a Member of Parliament. I just want to remind you that I'm not willing to accept the owl syndrome. You know the owl thinks her own child is always the best and smartest. I warmly vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, my colleague. Mrs Giannakopoulou from the Change Movement, and immediately afterwards Mr Stylos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with an issue that is not regulated in this bill. But it is extremely important and topical and it is about the preparedness that the Ministry must have with the new school year, to deal with a new wave of pandemic that we are all absent. Efficiency and everyday life are not defined as you know, just by draft laws but, above all, by how we deal with current issues. So what has he done or is the Ministry prepared to do in terms of preparing infrastructure, logistics, platform equipment in view of a new krone wave? It will be criminal negligence, ladies and gentlemen, of the Ministry not directly in cooperation with self-government, not just to fly the ball to self-government, but to take and coordinate all necessary steps so that it does not lose an hour, the next school year, in the event of a new lockdown and, of course, to ensure health protection in our schools. These are the issues, ladies and gentlemen, and not cheap impression, communication issues that come at the last minute, with last-minute amendments to the lesson's supposedly live streaming. A little more respect is needed at last in the educational world, to all those who lifted up on their own back - without the necessary assistance and support from the Ministry, without any basic training on the part of the training coordinators throughout the pandemic and who, from their own politeness, have basically kept the education, within the two and a half months of school being closed. Allow me, from this step by step to say a huge thank you to all these people in all the educational world that has given this whole race. We are now going to the present draft law on education, which comes within a period of rapid change in our lives, social structures and work. The fourth industrial revolution in the era of globalisation, the entry into a new era of robotics, climate change and the taste of the pandemics that we have already experienced and will probably also be tested in the future, undeniably bring us to new challenges. A new highly competitive environment is being created and we must see, this is the big question, how can we give all those necessary supplies to our children, so that they can survive in a highly competitive environment with confidence in the future. What education should our children have, in these new conditions, what critical spirit of what perceptions, what skills for the future, so that they can function confidently? What is the new educational, social role of the teacher and how is this guaranteed through the public education system? These, ladies and gentlemen, are the big questions that should have fuelled a living, an open social dialogue, so that we can give an integrated answer and come up with a consensus - if not in education, where, in fact, I wonder - for a new modern, dynamic framework for our education that will not finally change, ladies and gentlemen, depending on the wishes not just of each government, but of every minister of the same government. We hoped, honestly, that we hoped, Minister, that this information could be seen even now. And we were ready, as a movement of change, to contribute with positive thoughts and suggestions. Besides, Mrs Kefalidou, I think she has tabled detailed proposals throughout the committees. I would even imagine that all the stakeholders, the social forces, as well as hundreds of academics, people from society and production, would like to do so. Instead of that, what did we see, ladies and gentlemen? We have seen a dialogue in the midst of a quarantine, in the middle of a coronary, just to respect the pretexts of a so-called reform, for an essentially nothing. Is this the supposed major reform of education, which Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy were calling for in the election? It was the number one theme of the then opposition. I am sorry, Minister, but 'the term is 'and it is a matter of common concern'. In the meantime, since we are talking about reforms, Minister, I should like to tell you what is happening and, in fact, you should also know what is happening in Agaleo, the constituency of the Prime Minister. A few days ago, he dropped a school window while the teacher was trying to open the window and seriously injured a mother underneath school. I'm just saying it so you know, if you don't already know, what the situation is, the reality in public schools. I'm sorry if I land you in the realities of public schools, but finally open your eyes. We've already wasted a lot of time. We were taken back by the ideas of those who considered the exquisite retsite, forbidden act, the evaluation of the guilty teachers, the connection of education to the needs of production. We were taken back by those as ministers who considered their duty to make a so-called reform of their own, but, in fact, to make patches and reeds. Unfortunately, you're doing one of the same. Unfortunately, you haven't learned anything. Sadly, this shows and proves your bill. It is another lost reform. And from the wars of reforms in SYRIZA education, we are going to something even worse and more dangerous, to the undermining of reforms, to the Fake Reformists of New Democracy. Because this is evidenced by this draft law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need another minute, Madam President. We continue not to take into account the data and negative records of the Greek students in the PISA competitions. We continue not to take account of international experience, for example of Finland, which, through a long dialogue, has achieved and dramatically increased its educational system in the first place. And above all, the leadership of the Ministry of Education does not listen to anyone, it has not even sought a sincere and constructive dialogue with the parties, with the educational community, with the bodies, which could even lead to something better than this bill. Self-righteous, arrogant arrogance! Where are the forecasts, Minister, for a revised detailed program and refreshed course material? Where are the forecasts for a substantial upgrading of the educational process for all pupils? Where is the prediction of a brave upgrade of technical education, when research shows that the specialities that the market needs are missing?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u196	Madam Colleague, please, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u197	Madam President, I shall end in just a minute. Why is there no provision for certification of English's knowledge in high school? This is a real stumbling-up. Why do the multi-powered kindergartens not come back and mock people that they are supposedly not being English in kindergartens when, of course, they are done? You are also mocking people for supposedly innovation in primary and high schools, when, of course, they are made through the flexible zone. Why so much disgusting about evaluation? Is that a reform? Why don't you link the evaluation to teacher training? I'm now closing the standards experimentally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u198	My colleague, it's been two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u199	I'm closing, Madam President. Restore PASOK settings distorted, arbitrary, without complying with legal procedures. You are baptizing randomly, obviously, experimentally in standards, arbitraryly and without any design. For us, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the area of education is in need of a deep, substantial and not a make-up reform, such as the one brought about by the New Democracy Government. So we will be here to remind you that we will fight with all our strength, for a quality real public education and not for its degradation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u200	The next speaker is Mr Stylus. Immediately after the speech Mr. Katrugalos from SYRIZA and Mr. Boutsikakis from New Democracy has been speaking. Mr. Style, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u201	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is an important bill, as it concerns close to a million three thousand students in primary and secondary education. It concerns forty thousand teachers, permanent teachers, twenty-thirty-thirty-thirty-three-three-year-old assistants working in our public education system each year, and many tens of thousands of school graduates, with graduates, with doctorates, who are employed in schools, in private education, in a number of other structures. So the whole of Greek society is touching. It is about the struggles of parents and students for their future, about the supplies that a organized state provides to the new generation, to start its life and create. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill strengthens, improves and broadens the basis of education. It creates the foundations for supporting the educational system in a modern European society. Our aim is to make a school progressive, open in a European environment, difficult and competitive, a school that monitors developments, new scientific and pedagogical data, assimilate new currents and prepares children to understand a world that changes at high speeds, a school contributing to the full-fledged, harmonious and balanced development of students' mental and psychosomatic forces so that, regardless of sex and origin, they can develop into integrated personalities and live creatively. Ladies and gentlemen, since the first day of New Democracy's governance, our Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, had clearly talked about a wide range of reforms and changes at all levels of education, reforms that will touch the hard core of education, will leave behind the past of the minor effort and equalisation downwards, will better organise our educational system and introduce innovative actions in the educational process, primary and secondary education, reforms that will help open up our universities to competition and the international scientific community. In primary and secondary education, under this draft law, innovative projects are implemented, such as piloting skills workshops through four thematic themes, such as living, the environment, social awareness and responsibility, creative thinking and initiative. It will involve many actions such as volunteering, road safety, dependency prevention, mutual respect and diversity, robotics, entrepreneurship, sexual education. Foreign language, English, pilot projects in kindergartens, is introduced to primary and secondary schools, to enable poor families who cannot provide what rich families give, to have early English teaching. A new institution is introduced, the institution of the school-leaving counsellor, where next to teachers, parents, teachers, will help with the best relations at school and the smooth integration of all pupils, regardless of which social group they come, with the aim of managing special situations, such as the cases of intra-school violence that we have so often observed in the media in recent years. It seeks a better organization with methods to assess the progress of students, better organization with the Bank of topics, where all children throughout Greece, from Crete to Evros, from Kastelorizo to the mountainous Tzoumerkas of Arta and Epirus, will have a specific material framework, which will be taught and on which will be trained by the teachers and to which examinations will be given at the end, so that they will have taken all the same supplies and started from the same starting point. The evaluation is better organised. I ask: who is opposed to evaluation? Is it the Civic Opposition? Didn't you vote for the evaluation of our educational system? You want to improve? Make suggestions. The Minister told you to make suggestions. Organize more modern. No one opposes evaluation. They also agree with the trade unions and the IAEA. The trade union organisation of primary and secondary education has as its first aim the evaluation of all structures and educational processes, programmes and everything, because we want to see what the mistakes are, what omissions are and what interventions are, in order to improve and move forward. A new institution of the pilot and experimental schools is introduced, which we believe will be competitive and competitive with the public school and that it will draw up public schools. In tertiary education, the establishment of foreignlanguage undergraduate programmes, autonomously from each HEI, without the approval of the relevant Minister. So we open up our universities to foreign teachers from abroad and not just. To stay here our teachers, our own scientists, doctors and postdoctors, the well-known Brain Drain, who are distinguished at foreign universities, so that they can teach and obtain from tuition fees from foreign students. Revenues that will go to the Greek State University, which will use them in its budget for the purposes that it has set itself. I repeat to the Greek State University. Ladies and gentlemen, as President of the Parliament's Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, I have had the privilege of listening to all the speakers, the rapporteurs and the bodies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude in a minute, Madam President, if I may. Time has been given to everyone and time unlimited. I was impressed by the unlimited time it took to substantiate their arguments that they could not support them. In a particular time frame, we disagree on specific things, on that and on that. But it took more time and more time to hear opinions, where they did not end up anywhere in the end. That's my opinion. All this effort, therefore, and throughout this debate, I would like to remind you that we are legislating for Greek students throughout Greece. For all the social strata, and that must not be forgotten. We are lawful for students who are in the mountains of Arta or in the plain of Arta, who do not have the potential of a child from a rich family living in the city centre and their parents can provide care. We know them, let's not hide behind our finger, especially lessons, etc. A series of boosting tools, then, to provide them with what they want. We're making laws for them. I don't want you to forget them, I don't want you to forget them. That is why I ask you to vote in favour of this bill, which has many substantial minor changes. Thank you very much and thank you for the tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr Colleague. Mr Katrugalos from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes and immediately thereafter Mr Boutsikakis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the announcements of the Ministry's political leadership, this bill does not constitute a comprehensive reform plan, and indeed for all levels of education. It is a limited attempt to rectify conservative views, which have largely been rejected by the evolution of things not only within the educational community but also in general. This recovery plan is conceived by executives who were central to planning the bill. I read, for example, a statement by the President of the Institute for Education Policy, saying that the watch of education must be back in 2014. In fact, several of the provisions of the bill attempt to turn the clock much earlier, even back of these very delayed reforms that New Democracy itself brought to the 1970s after the Century. As some have discovered in the face of the Minister of Development a communist, it seems that many in your area and not only from the extreme right wing but also from the extreme centre, see in the face of the late Rallie an anarchist who has been confronted with traditional perceptions of linguistic division and fans, which many of you would like to bring them back into the newsroom. As I said about the Bourbons and your rehab, there seems to be nothing to learn and nothing to forget in your absence from power. And if there's anything new in this neo-conservation of the blue leg, because the blue foot should have been the mark of this bill or "me", the "mimide" as the younger generations say, is the attempt to open up education, especially in areas that should instead seek to upgrade public education, such as vocational education. Neo-conservation, therefore, combined with class choices which are neither for the benefit of education nor for the benefit of many. I do not think it is unrelated to what I said that the only factors supporting this bill - while the educational community strikes and politically opposes it - are schoolchildren and educators, especially those who see education as a business and not as a public asset. Not only the spiritual development of Greek citizens, but also of equality, social mobility, the reduction of these extreme social inequalities that we see lead to the explosion in the United States and perhaps more than it regulates, is more revealing that the political dimension of the bill is more revealing than what it explicitly regulates. His indifference to the majors. Not a single word about vocational education, except for this socially unorthodox age limit arrangement for entry into the PSAs, which was essentially a gift for the schools of private education. Not a word for the special lawsuit. Not a single word about special schools, which we should have in mind, such as refugees. Is it not paradoxical that the training coordinators of refugees, for example, are not considered to be in a position of responsibility? And I think it is equally revealing of this worthy dimension of our disagreements, because all I have said before does not just reflect a difference of model model in education but an overall perception of how we are dealing with concepts, which I think are distorting their social content, such as quality in education, because not excellence. I'm going to pour some things into my limited time, staying back on what you didn't do. SYRIZA, as a government, triggered a system of scholarships for candidate doctors and postdoctoral researchers. You realize how central this is for the knowledge society, for the need to return to Greece the generation of Brain-Drain. Around ninety people were involved in this project. In February 1920, however, while no scholarships were given for 1919, the New Democracy Government has completely absolved the programme. Is this not inconsistency and hypocrisy against your rhetoric about excellence? Politically conservative draft results from a series of your choices. A number of colleagues have spoken by SYRIZA about the reintroduction of cosmite conduct, which again reflects this conception of Law 40000. Several of you seem to want to revert public education to the era of dispersion and curbing guli, not seeing the inter-educational nature of every intervention at school, even though it is not a question of the educational process, but of conduct. Replacement of sociology from Latin to pan-Hellenic exams is again a perception of this conservative view that wants to deprive the necessary tools for understanding the world from young people. You heard from Kostas Zourari that we have no problem with Latin. But this choice of you is not an individual one, and it is not a question of respect for humanitarian studies, which we consider should be protected as an eye daughter, but of an attempt, precisely, not to comprehend the social and class contradictions that you want to overthrow and overthrow. Because I have reached the end of my speech, I can tell you that there are many other discrepancies of communication that are undone by the political and class substance of your bill. A part of your rhetoric is about respect for the opinion of the experts, but you are silenced that all twenty-eight presidents of the educational departments were opposed to the introduction of English into kindergartens, which - unlike you said - is not the norm but the exception to multilingual countries in Europe alone. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] To finish because I want to respect the time. The main question of our time is not whether or not to return to the blue aprons, but how to meet the major challenges of the fourth technological revolution in knowledge and innovation. And, unfortunately, you were once again committed to your past, not able to face the challenges of our future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u204	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Boutsikakis now has the floor from New Democracy and immediately after Mr Giannoulis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u205	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel very lucky to be speaking today immediately after the former Foreign Minister on such a historic day that, Mr Katsugale, contrary to you who put one, I think, a negative sign in our foreign policy, we, by delimiting the EEZ with Italy, think we have put another stone in the rule of Kyriakos Mitsotakis to build a modern, productive and organised state, a government that leads the Greek society ahead. At a time when Turkey has exceeded every limit on the violations of international law, Greece has a weapon to oppose the legality of integrating peace and cooperation in the wider region. About the bill, now, in Greek reality education is a timeless problem, even greater than the economy. Through education, the perceptions and attitudes of the entire Greek society are shaped. These in turn shape the country's social, economic and political life. Education is directly linked to our future and without this country has absolutely no prospects, it has no future. Education in Greece needs reconstruction based on structural principles such as excellence, an ideal that was so warped by the previous government. Excellence does not mean elitism but seek to improve everyone. It means encouraging sustainable progress. It means evaluating all, pupils, school structures, teachers and rewarding those who really deserve, not equalisation downwards but trying to make them better, that is, quality, high level of educational programs, excellently trained teachers, modern knowledge and moralization of young people. Apply new teaching methods to cultivate respect for the co-man, the environment, society, the principles and values of the democratic culture. Experimental training in laboratories to cultivate the multiple skills of the new generation. The extroversion, the greater connection with Greek society and European and international traditions, with the strengthening of foreign languages and also with all modern international trends. Adapting education to the demands of modern times, namely the interconnection - in substance - with the economy and the labour market. The implementation of the teaching of new technologies. The practicalization of knowledge. The demand for modernisation of education is now more timely than ever. The role of school cannot be just a sterile transmission of knowledge. School daily life cannot be disfellowshipped from real life. Education means developing critical thinking, cultivating the special gifts and developing and shaping the student's personality. Today we are doing all our election commitments to education, changes to look at the future, from kindergarten to new thematic and new activities, to examinations of the introduction of higher education. We promote the extroversion of Greek universities through the establishment of foreign-language programmes and cooperation with the best foreign universities. I will not repeat the dozens of innovations in this bill. I would, however, personally like to dwell on four very important points for me. The treatment of school bullying. I had tabled a question to the Minister in December on immediate measures to eliminate this phenomenon. Today I am pleased to tell you that the draft law solves this serious problem, as this includes all the measures necessary to eliminate the phenomenon. Students, parents and teachers must understand that such phenomena have no place in schools, do not have a place in Greek society and are never tolerated by anyone anywhere. Restoring the conduct of the students. Its abolition from the SYRIZA government was completely wrong. Education does not mean only knowledge, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. It also means shaping the right attitude. It means virtue. That's why conduct is important. So we pass the message to our children that it is important not only to have knowledge or good grades but also important to have impeccable behavior. I'm on my way to the evaluation. The evaluation of both the school unit and the educational project is carried out with three pillars: the collective planning of the educational project, the internal evaluation by the school teachers association and the external evaluation by the training project coordinators and regional educational planning centres. Finally, we are talking about modernising higher education. We want universities freely, autonomously and extroverted. That is why we are giving the opportunity to set up foreign-language programmes. That is why we give universities the opportunity to establish projects together with foreign universities and summer programmes, as is done in the best educational establishments in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, we are setting the foundations for the education of the 21st century. In a world which is constantly changing, education cannot remain attached to yesterday. Today we are making a leap to the future and the benefits of this jump are multiple, as with educational design we attract students from all over the world. Yes, they will come to study here, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population. This will benefit the Greek economy. This is how we will achieve the dissemination of Greek culture. So we will build a modern Greece that is taking the lead in education, research and innovation. This is our vision. That's what we're gonna do! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Giannoulis from SYRIZA has the floor now, and immediately thereafter Mr Kyranakis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u207	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, before I get to the point of the bill, I would like to submit a document. It is a decision of the Ministry of Education. And I would like you, Mrs Zacharakis, to confirm whether, on the basis of the amendment you have tabled, you are excluding the assistant teachers from the right to collect money or remuneration as observers in the pan-Hellenic exams. It is a decision dated 26 May 2020. It shall be prohibited for alternates to have the right to compensation as monitors. I'm putting it down for the Minutes now so I don't have to confuse it. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Giannoulis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have a very brief question to Mrs Zacharakis or Mrs Kerameo when she returns, and she is about the Dental School of Thessaloniki. Its sudden and unreasonable closure has caused a terrible disturbance to patients who use university medical services. You've left cotton people, dehydration, really in the air. At the same time as the reason you say that it is the lack of health protection measures for students and teachers, in the warehouses in the region of Central Macedonia, there is such material worth several hundred thousand euros. An answer would be very interesting on the part of the Ministry. I can understand, by entering the bill, how an ambitious politician, who is responsible for implementing what has been requested by the Prime Minister, can sign the specific law signed and you have brought it to the vote. I do not really understand, however, how a young woman, a mother of two young children with academic experience, a young politician, does not understand that she leads with her signature, whether she believes it or not, to Greek education in a regression course. Mr Phillips referred to the lack of sensitivity to parliamentary control and to parliamentary dialogue, but also to dialogue in general. I wonder all these glorious things in this Chamber about the modern school of the 20th century, about the school of the future, have you really seen them in today's picture of education and schools? The children, Minister, are fortunately the sensitive point for all of us, whether as citizens before we have children or much more when we become parents. We are experiencing how much it has cost this place to have failed to achieve a single national education system and not to need every three and a little to baptise reforms or improve ments, every obsession of a minister or a circle of people around the Minister of Education. I want to stay in something. In the position of the Minister of Education, Mrs Kerameos, I would be very concerned by getting into the articles of the bill, especially on the subject of conduct, if I read what had been posted to the consultation. You are talking about the conduct, and my colleague said earlier that it was a mistake to abolish the conduct on the SYRIZA side. This, Minister and Mr. Colleague, must be told to the Panhellenic Individuals' Association about the Disorder of Obligation and Over-mobility. They submitted to the consultation, which you opened their opinion, saying that: "he is putting the needs of the students concerned directly". Your consultation has taken place. I would also like to tell you about 'ACTION AID'. I don't know if it reminds you of anything and I'm not insinuating anything in relation to the Prime Minister's previous term of a relative. "ACTION AID", therefore, again in your consultation, claims that Article 5 restores the representation of the students in the dismissals, where in that country we had ended it as a matter of the fact that in the dismissals and in the degrees of study it cannot be described and included anything that can be used for the rest of a student's life as an element "hidden" and its course and effort as an academic citizen. These are not the words of the bad SYRIZA, who destroyed everything. These are called people who know and with whom you did not bother, obviously, to discuss, as with many others, who have spoken in consultation. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Giannoulis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Usually, I avoid, respecting the parliamentary procedure and tradition of speaking from a manuscript, but, you know, sometimes children are able to write and tell us things. I left Thessaloniki with a wish and curse. "Do what you can't sign this bill." I didn't give much hope to him who gave me the wish. She's seventeen years old, and she's going to be second in September. I don't have much hope, I answered, because this government has proved that it doesn't want to hear. It is arrogant, I will dare to say self-government, but it certainly does not bother listening to the interested, the children, the teachers. They will lift up or have lifted up in the past, the burden of any reform. So these children wrote a letter, which I will then submit, to have it available to you and to read it in a more calm time, because when they speak, they know how to express the truth. They're the kids who wake up every day at 7:00 in the morning and end their efforts late at night. He's Paris, he's my son, he's the Friend, who's like a child to me, but I won't say her last name, because you're not very safe in the management of personal data. They are the kids who have taken the initiative to say they are concerned about the reintroduction of the Bank. They are concerned about increasing the written courses in the promotional examinations for high school and high school. They are concerned about the merge of the direction of health in the positive direction, about sociology in the theoretical direction, about the follow-up of this course, which you called the'study controversy', which looks a little like punishment. For the conduct, we've talked about it. I remind you that in 2013 and 2014 the results of the Bank of Topics were to cut about 40% of students. So the teachers took the summer phone and told the children: "Yannaki, you passed the mathematics that you had cut out in June". A number of other issues, such as, for example, that children don't want to be a robot of grades. Kids want to hunt just one statistical imprint, as Mr. Zuraris described. Children want to claim the future, their lives and the educational, but also the educational process that the school needs to bring. We have not been able to understand, and I cannot understand much yet, which will probably lead to the desolation of public school, the desertification of the classes already in existence. I imagine you're aware that the first, second and third grades have ghost classes, where four or five students are barely there, because everyone is preparing for the great judgment of the pan-Hellenic exams. It concludes this letter, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes, to Mrs Kerameos: "Try again to know the real world of students". Of course, I know there is an intolerance. There is an intolerance given to the reactions of pupils, teachers, people in the context of education. You think you are the absolute expressions of knowledge about the future, about education, about education. Messiahs, of course, have expensively cost this place and the past. I do not know how many times it has been discussed in this Chamber that education is a national matter. But you're not listening. Listen clearly to the teachers, who are outside this Chamber, before you deceive them, as you have done with public health officials. I won't get into the process of borrowing any slogan either from cosmetic advertising or from anything else. I will borrow a slogan that the university teacher reminded me of, Mr. Zouraris from the years when the children, like now, said quite simply: 'We want it all and we want it now.' And we have to give it to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u208	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Kyranakis now has the floor, immediately after Mrs.Augeris and after Mrs.Augeris, the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u209	Madam President, with your permission, I will speak from the seat so that we do not waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u210	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u211	Thank you very much. Madam President, it is one of the few times that I would agree with Mr Giannoulis from SYRIZA that we should listen to children, listen to students and students in what they say to us. What they tell us every year and we have arrived at 2020 and will tell us this year, after the full-blown tests, is that with parrotry and memorisation they cannot move forward in their lives, become right professionals. I would remind you, especially those colleagues who are parents, and especially those who are parents of children in primary school, that these children will be found on the labour market in the 2030s. So, Alas, if these children's curriculum vitae, which will come out on the labour market in 2030, are the main criterion of melting and papalia. These children need to know how to solve problems, which we often do not see today, with technologies that do not exist today, in 2020 and of course, to be able to do all that is described in Chapter I. I would just like to dwell on a piece of the bill - because much has been said - Article 1, which introduces something very important, in my view, digital skills. It introduces them, Madam President, in a way which is very important and which is why we are all calling and imagined as a labour market for the future, because it makes concepts such as STEM, robotics. I would like to propose to Minister Zacharakis today - which has shown personal interest in this subject - and to the Institute for Educational Policy to get artificial intelligence into schools. As a framework described in Article 1, in the STEM category, I hope that in future it will be compulsory. It can start with piloting, as you describe, but I do not think that in a society and in a labour market - seeing the example of the United States, where 60% of companies have already seen how they work today, how they produce income and jobs has been influenced by artificial intelligence - we can overlook this. Just because Greece does not have the money to invest the billions that China puts in at the moment or the United States in artificial intelligence, it will have to invest, Minister, in human capital. He will, if he introduces artificial intelligence from the primary school, not only as a lesson, but as a tool for teachers. How can this be done? With artificial intelligence platforms already in place today, which help students with learning difficulties not to stay behind in class, not to stay back in a class in which everything is taught horizontally and forced to resort to instruction, private lessons or anything else. Help these platforms, as it is done in China, move forward and show their true talent. I think there is a talent in Greece and we need to make use of it. We saw last year, in 2019 - I don't know how many you know - that the Greek team was distinguished at the Olympics of Educational Robotics, which took place in Hungary, recording the best performance with Russia in a competition I read here that four hundred and twenty-three groups from seventy-three countries participated. The Greek team of the 2nd Patras High School, the students Eva Lambropoulou, Maria Panagopoulou and Maria Stefanidis are three girls, awarded for the construction of robots, which with the help of solar panels - putting in and renewing energy - can also move autonomously in the city. He is the eleven-year-old Vassilis Datis from Larissa with his classmate, Yannis Triantafyllis, who built an innovative autonomous mobile robot. I stress, 11 years old. Talento, then, exists in our country. All we have to do is use it. It is a lot of examples. You've raised it yourself, Mrs. Zacharakis. I remember your post for a Vuliagmen high school student who has been distinguished in the digital design, Michael Marinakis. I also remember the previous days from the 1st High School of Rhodes students, who with the help of 3D prenter, this three-dimensional printing facility, built shields for the coronary. All this, in Greek schools. A lot of them in Greek public schools. So imagine these children, who have no chance, without any tools, without the help, the support they have children of their age in other countries, much more advanced and much more modern, achieve all of this, if they have just modern tools and more free time. I remind you that they've done all this in their free time. They are not compulsory courses within their time schedule. Therefore, more free and creative time, so that they can develop such skills. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President, in a minute. I would therefore like to close by saying, for the oldest colleagues, that there was once a colossal company, the 'KODAK'. They all wanted to have a place in a colossal with a hundred seventy thousand workers, such as the 'KODAK'. KODAK, within few years, between 1998 and 2001-2002 and when it held 85% of the world's pie on the market for printed photos, went bankrupt. Why did he go bankrupt? Because this company's productive model disappeared. That's exactly how we'll disappear productive models that exist today. So we have a duty, the children who are in primary and high school today - and in kindergarten, I will say - to prepare them for a very competitive, globally competitive labour market in 2030. Let us not produce any more troops of the unemployed. Let us not produce other armies of schoolchildren, who will graduate and often give their resumes that will go into drawers of political offices and will not end up anywhere, but truly capable professionals, who can take Greece forward. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Augeris has the floor from SYRIZA and immediately after Mr Pafilis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to judge by the title of the bill, which is currently being introduced by the New Democracy Government in plenary, we have to put ourselves on an upgrade and, indeed, for the supposed upgrading of the school. It says a little - in other words, the government and the Ministry of Education - that those who vote in favour of the bill entitled 'School upgrading and other provisions' are doing good, while those who vote against oppose the upgrading of the education system. Of course, the New Democracy is trained in the Organic language. Why am I saying that? As the Minister of Education recently told us, Mr.Kerameos, causing the intelligence of teachers, children, parents: "The cameras entered schoolrooms, so that all students have access to education". As another ambassador to neo-conservatism told us, the Secretary of State for Crime Policy in the case of a prisoner, his transfer was not punishable and we are talking about a real aristocrat - we on the left, who move us - who claimed his right to education. It's like when the New Democracy talks about excellence. Here, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I would like to say - because you are pulling our finger on excellence - that excellence presupposes being good first. The Government of the New Democracy is not good at good lawmaking. The Government of New Democracy is not good, because it has not learned to comply with the laws it lays down. The Government and New Democracy officials don't read, not their lessons to get their degree - that's what you know, we recognize as a right to someone because life can bring you many difficulties and force you to seek a second chance at an older age - but, you know what? You do not read the laws you themselves are voting on. I am referring, for example, to the law on the ultimate state or the logic of excellence. Many times, you have found yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, not having a degree, while the law you voted for required a degree in order to get a place in a public body to become a commander. Do you want me to remind you how you have had to make an amendment so that the Commander of the National Intelligence Service and his degree in music can fit in with what you invite him to run? Do you want me to remind you - or rather remind you - how was the former Minister of Foreign Affairs forced to resign, in charge of matters of impoverished Greeks, precisely, why did he prove that he did not have his degree? [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Today, I would just like to remind you of another case, for which we probably have the assumption, of a provision of the law on the ultimate state, which was ultimately not observed. In accordance with the relevant provision, in order to appoint a private person as a general or special secretary, a degree in higher education in the national or equivalent foreign schools is required. On the official website of the Ministry of Tourism, which is posted the CVs of the political leadership, for the Secretary-General of Tourism and Cultural Development, Mr. Luli, notes - among other things - that he is a diplomat of the Swiss School of Technical Cylindricals, it is alleged to be the only Swiss school currently operating with these features - its elements exist on the Ministry's website - which is a professional institute of education and an annual student. Today I have submitted a request for documents, for the Secretary-General's licence or for the recognition of the equivalence of the title. I had the answer, you know. It's not that the secretary-general didn't read his lessons, it's that he probably didn't read the law well or he doesn't know what the law means. Replies to the site "TheNewspaper.gr": "I have not made the recognition of the Justice to tell me what the correspondence is. These are the three schools all over the world. In Switzerland, Germany and Kansas. From there on, I don't know if it's or isn't law. That I have studied, that I have tabled." This is also the respect for the law you are voting on in excellence, which you are evangelizing. Please testify for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, like this, the government of Mr Mitsotakis today, with all this, with the great contradictions and paradoxes, is trying to talk about the upgrading of school by making the words - as I have explained just now - lose their meaning. In fact, judging by the contents of the draft law and not its title, we are called upon to take a position on the degradation of public education, because the definition of degradation is a provision if anyone catches to read this bill or rather is to upgrade the'scole spirit'. So we say in our turn to the government that voting against the Keramos - Mitsotakis - is a matter, not only ideological consistency, but also moral order, for every progressive policy. Because the only thing that New Democracy is upping here is an orchestrated and confessed, consistent attack on the public character of education. This is what the Government of New Democracy is trying to pass, ladies and gentlemen, today, is to transform the educational process into a mechanism for the consolidation and expansion of social inequalities. It is not enough to introduce inequalities in workplaces in the relationship between citizens of a Member State and the market, as soon as possible, from childhood and for as long as young people are involved in the educational community, the scope and duration of which New Democracy is trying to shrink. This is, not just a disaster for social cohesion, but a disaster for the future of the country. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President. Thank you. You know everywhere in the world, as in our country, they collide two logics for education: One incorporates the educational process - part in the neoliberal dogma? I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is prepared to do so. Students are preparing to be thrown into the merciless battle of the market. Here the Right sells the argument about allegedly linking education to the labour market so that young people can find easier jobs. Several representatives of the New Democracy have said so. It sounds convincing to some people. But it's the perfect trap for young people and their families, who are in low incomes. They need to guess it now. They experience it daily in interviews for work, employer arbitrariness, redundancies, clientele networks. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Thank you, Mr President. Based on the logic behind this bill, it does not matter: Enlargement and deepening of cognitive objects, the cultivation of emotional intelligence, the insight of democratic principles, anthropism, interpersonalism and not only audiovisual relations between a student and a teacher, educational and psychosocial support, socialism, culture of solidarity at school, the formation, after all, of an integrated personality of young people who are guaranteed for their coherent and creative presence in the production process and the public sphere. So when the New Democracy and its ideological allies swear on the connection between education and the market, they are in fact seeking to consolidate this treaty and a specific market where democratic control is abolished, social mobility is abolished and promoted, social automation and the law of the strong. This requires a specific type of trainee-educational, educational and educational unit. That is why the government insists on promoting provisions that turn the school into an examination centre, which impose the punishing and contributory - allegedly - evaluation, which are trying to circumvent the Constitution. You're repulsive about this Constitution 16 and you can't hide it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u214	Your Honor, you're in eight and a half minutes if you see the painting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u215	I shall now conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u216	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u217	Don't exhaust your rigour to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u218	I'm the one now, from you, I'm starting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u219	And if you're fresh and you have endurance!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u220	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u221	Thank you. I shall speed it up, Mr President. The Right may imitate the urban ways of the West, but it shows a timeless impotence to incorporate them into their totality. It only takes to those tools that reproduce its authority and the social superiority of its chosen ones by sending all the rest to black times. For the rest, authoritarianism, as was the case in the '60s, '50s and as far back as our mind and memory can go. You know, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, what is the saddest and most worrying? You bring this bill to the Greek Parliament at a time when the whole planet, with youth fronts, claims something radically different. Last year we saw young people fill the streets, demonstrating against the systemic and systematic deterioration of the environment. These days they fill the streets, protesting against systemic and systematic racism. At this time you chose to put cameras in the classrooms. At this time you choose to remove the thematic weeks. At such a time you choose to characterize the conduct of the students. At this time you choose to remove Sociology from compulsory courses. You are out of season and out of the climate, trapped in the microcosm of social preservation and intellectual freezing. You don't care about the agony of the children - I close with it - and their struggle, which is moving history. You do not want them as part of our collective memory, a lesson in a culture of resistance and creativity. You put them on ice, a stadium before the plaster. A glance at the news of the world is enough to understand that this bill is on the wrong side of history and sooner or later, history itself will delete it. Thank you both for your time and your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u222	Mr Pafilis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u223	Now I'm tempted, but I'm going to stand by. Well, didn't SYRIZA change everything for five years? Didn't he create public free education? Hasn't it abolished private education? Didn't it abolish the connection between the school and the university to the market? What did Mr. Gabroglou do? Incredible things, he did the M.D.s for free, so everyone pays. Should I say more?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u224	No, that's why New Democracy abolished what we did!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u225	No, I'm not saying any more, I'll see you later. Don't be in a hurry and don't scratch yourself in the sack! Secondly, SYRIZA criticises - and rightly so - that the New Democracy brings this bill into the health crisis, anyway, where it starts to end. Yes, sir. What's he doing? You brought two "Gavroglou bills", one on August 1st and the other on the Great Week, which was closed all the educational institutions. Is it true or is it a lie? Right on the same road. How much they look like, so the methods! Secondly, it says that SYRIZA - and rightly so - says that all educational bodies and the community are opposed to this bill - that is correct, they are indeed opposed - and the only ones in favour of the bill are the representatives of the schools and private schools. It was exactly the same with Mr. Garroglou! All the institutions opposed and celebrated the schools and private schools. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u226	No, you don't remember well!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u227	You don't? Read it! With the Gabroglou bill, I'm not talking about yours. Now I don't want to comment. That's exactly how it is, just so you know, sometimes, okay, but it also has limits - not to say the courage - hypocrisy. The Government and, in particular, the Ministers, like the previous governments, use heavy expressions, 'upgrade','support for the future'. At the same time, they describe the misfortune of education. We're going to ask some questions, Minister. First, can you talk about upgrading when you have forty-one thousand substitutes? Will you change it? Oh, no. What upgrade are you talking about? Is it possible to talk about upgrading education, when infrastructure is a mess, when 50% of schools have been in a seismic area since 1950 - where it has not yet been done - have you not been claimed - by any government so far - to carry out a prosthetic control over all these buildings? And you're telling us about upgrades? Is it possible to talk to us about upgrading kindergartens when three out of four kindergartens don't own their own building when they're housed in rented shops when they're on the first floor? Or wasn't that about SYRIZA? Is it possible for you to talk about upgrading, say "education is the vehicle for the future and so forth", when there is continuous sub-financing, have you passed to the municipalities education and I mean primary and high school and not give them money? They have to cut off because they cannot, of course, cover the costs. What, then, are you talking about instruction and speed towards the future with this mess that exists today? Third question: Does the public education system cover educational needs today? I ask you all raw: Does it only give the public the opportunity to be able to go to a higher school without a school? Oh, no. How much does the school cost? It costs 2.5 billion a year ago - now I don't know - the evidence I had at the time. So you're telling us about public education too? What have you been doing all these years for public free education? Is there a free education? Fourth question: Do foreign languages learn at school? Are you telling us now about jumping towards the future and enchanting you with English in kindergartens? Child from school can get Lower or Proficiency? It's not going to be God! None! It's going to be a tutorial, or the parent's going to pay again. As for the comment that English have to do - what did they say? - by the Americans' check! SYRIZA's saying it - because it was heard - after everything he's done with the Americans these years, it's at least a tragedy, not to say anything worse. I continue with another question: are you telling us about upgrades. Tell us, does your school in capitalism here cover sports needs, cultural needs of children? If you don't pay, it doesn't go ballet, it doesn't go martial art, it doesn't go sport. Everywhere the parent pays, and then you tell us we're moving forward. With what? We'll run for three hundred kilometers with "FIAT 124" in 1968, with such infrastructure and such a mess! We have another question: you blame the education system, the mess that exists. They do exist. You really don't have a mirror? Who has ruled Greece all these years? We, the Communist Party of Greece? Didn't you rule? Are you not responsible for all this shit in the field of education, because we are talking about middle education? So we're coming to the bill. We put this question, however, please answer us: Upgrade with such problems, is it upgraded? Where's he standing? In the air completely. I'll tell you what upgrade you want. So does this bill and all government policy cover the needs of multi-faceted youth education? Does it relieve people's families and this bill from economic bleeding or is it even harder for people's families with the topic bank and the ongoing tests? Yes or no? Answer me. Who's gonna pay the bride? People's mattresses will pay her, which, if they can't pay, their child will go to an IEK or anywhere else, even talent to be, as you say with talents. I'm sorry, but we have to come to an agreement. We have radically different views, but you cannot tell us that there is equality and that children have the same potential. At least stop it! Do the same have the child of the industrialist, the shipowner, the child of the wealth-holders, the ones who take out the dirt? Two people work - just to talk, as we live, every day - two people work at the factory. What can they do, if there are different shifts, for their children who go to high school or high school, not to mention in primary school? But those who steal the sweat have no problem getting them where they want to either here or abroad. Upgrade and adaptation - Mrs Kerameos said - to the needs of the times. We agree, but to translate what that means. All governments so far - all! - especially after 1990 they actually upgraded. But what upgrade did they do? I'll tell you. In the early 1990 ’ s at the Concert Hall of Music, the pretexts and the university had gathered and the education commissioner, who was then British, had come. When he spoke, there were statues left, voices. You know what he said? Read it if you want, there's his speech. I don't know if there's any online. He said: "What we have known so far about education, namely that it must form personalities that can respond, thought, etc., to forget about them. Education must be adapted and subject to the needs of the economy and the market." Everyone stayed in the bar because there were other times. They literally stayed a bar, other than what choice they made then. This is the direction you have all served and served. First of all, it is the good news of the European Union. When you are with the European Union, you will follow the directives, whether or not, and all its strategy. To say one more thing, because some of them are being loaded in the memorials: these overturns began before the memorials. Diamantopoulou was before, for example, to talk about our country. In the European Union, these overturns have been made much earlier. What are they serving? What did Mrs. Keramea say? ‘Adaptation to the needs of the times’. To take off 'the times' and say 'the needs of capital'. What's he asking for? If they call it raw! Cheap, flexible, workforce, see skills, not all, I'll talk below. Workers, not critically thinking, but embedded and subordinate to entrepreneurship, that is to say, the interests of their exploiters, who will neither question the social system nor seek if there is anything better, but will consider it necessary and necessary, as both the European Union and NATO and the imperialist wars consider it necessary. Are we talking too much? I will ask you a question: If a child writes a top report, but disagrees radically, what will be his fate? What's it gonna get? Zero. We have even happened to the university, to put the professor's view and the view of ours, and indeed of supposedly progressive, and to take grade three. So, what critical spirit are you talking about? Full submission you want. No one leaves all of this. Of course, all governments, regardless of individual and ideological marks, as we say, served it all these years. Skills, therefore, run counter to full knowledge. That's the reality. Questions are raised. Don't you want some skills? For example, for traffic, sexual education, environmental treatment, etc. We didn't say no. There are, however, two topics: if they are against general education, if they are going to try to cover some holes, if they are going to try to make people, as Mrs Papayannakis said, rightness is another thing, it is an experience, it is not knowledge or, as our rapporteur said, we are all responding to how rather than why. Secondly, there is the question of content. Listen, to be honest with some things. Who is to blame for the damage to the environment? What do they promote there? The person. 'Let us not throw waste.' Of course, not to fly, of course, not to infect. We agree. But is there the great disasters of the environment, or the illiterate capitalist gain, which destroys everything, does not account for anything and has devastated areas whole? It's that way. He's gonna say that, though? Of course not. He won't say. He'll tell us how to collect this garbage salt, and that's an offer to the environment and not a question for the system. Who's gonna do this? It's a question. Where is he going to go from now on to where he's going to go to private? Don't we have a public education system? Where and where will the NGOs go from? Which is not a NGO, it is. They're not non-governmental organisations. They're government and deep. Not all of them, there are exceptions, but they're dropping in the ocean. They're going to do it? I'll give you an example. She went to class in a school where 30% of them smoke a liquor store, they say, for the good of cannabis medicine. And yet it happened! Luckily, a student got up, and he cut it off, and he became a fool. She went to class at a smoking school. Don't you know that? Where do you live? The towers? I'm not just talking about school in Peristeri, but about the center of Athens and everywhere. What are you going to do about them? Who's gonna solve it? NGO, with each other's perception? Second theme: Evaluation. No one can be negative to the general. What does it mean? On what criteria? What will be the criteria? I went and reread the discussions we had with the two PASOK laws and the others. What will be the criteria? Will it be a criterion to obtain market funding? Yes, it will. That's the kind of criteria you've got. They will be schools that will be open to business. Here are monsters and signs. I have no time to describe them, what is going on with the various companies, 'COCA COLA' and it doesn't fit together. I said one that's multinational. So, they're going to buy out the conscience of the children and send them to serve them by those who have wealth in their hands? Are we going to let them do social policy? Like the old kings who slain the whole world and the queens were sharing candy with orphans. It is with them that they are exploiting all the workers and then they go and give one, which is tax-free, and they represent the social benefactors. Not that it's bad, I'm not talking about them. Somebody giving, let's give it. It matters where it goes. What kind of schools? Open to business, decentralised educational institutions, that is to say, the desire of businesses, who will direct and break up the unified nature of education, and you know that very well. Finally, does evaluation or not create schools of different speeds? Answer yourself. The exact same ones will be in Perama, the same ones will be in Kali, the same ones will be in Perama, the same ones will be in Kifisia? Of course not. Schools of different speeds. The high school examination center, beyond the financial bleeding I said before. So, tell us, how's the theme bank going to work? What's the criterion? Get the matter out. Which means whoever can stand, whoever can. Anyone who can't, in the Caucasus. That's how they'll work all this at different speeds. You are still telling us about 'upgrade' and you probably mean it from twenty-four, twenty-five in the room. Here is the upgrade, and indeed, with a coronary, passing this great adventure, which we do not know what will happen in the future. Minimum for the operation of parts fourteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u228	Mr. Comrade, will you take some of the time of your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u229	I'm taking my dentistry and I'm getting it done. In mountainous areas, what's going to happen? Will they be carried from one village to another? It's a lot of them. What about the islands? In other areas, what about the limit on what you're putting? Aren't you going to make divisions? Oh, no. You'll have to. They may be paid once and for all tickets and tickets, but one understands what it means and how many hours it consumes. Finally, on the subject of conduct. May I propose to you? Next to bring the pedophile, then bring us and mow us and wear hats, as they used to wear before, and check if after 20.00 there's no one outside. Because we've been through times like this. Is there a serious teacher or scientist who supports the subject of conduct? What do you want us to tell you? How many have had ‘world’ conduct of the greatest personalities, bourgeoisie or anything else? So, will a child be aiming all his life for "world" conduct? I don't want to say fat examples. What's that? Take it back at last. But where are we going? Thirty years back? Can I tell you something? Fortunately - or unfortunately - you have done this, one with sociology, which is unacceptable. I've both analyzed them. And SYRIZA comes to make criticism, because in the rest, he's weighed, because he followed in a lot of the same line. Youth struggles will be strengthened. This story with the United States should give you some lessons. You know, if it breaks out, it doesn't get together. And it'll do well. Let everyone unite. The question of education is a matter of all the people, I mean the populaces, the workers, parents, teachers, students, teachers. You're not gonna have a good time. We'll be next door. We therefore put a roll-call vote on Articles 5, 9, 68, 73 and 82. Of course, in principle. I'm hanging up. The Coronus and the developments put the question of overthrowing this system for some puppies on the table. They know who they are. They ended up, just like others did. Thirty-five and forty-four shoot them to get others. It doesn't work anymore. The sooner it is decided, the better the people. If you want to talk about education, Soviet Union and socialist countries, the student would go home and read, filled. Besides, he learned two foreign languages, a musical instrument and a sport. Another time. Now, then, we'll make him better, enchanting and attractive. Not like the barbarity we live in today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u230	Thank you. Mr Christodoulou Stefanades from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u231	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot talk about a civilised state unless we have first secured the existence of a qualitative upgrading of education for the new generation. Since ancient times, as you know, the subject of youth education has been of primary importance to society. We are proud of the Faculty of Pythagoria, the Academy of Plato, the High School of Aristotle, the Garden of Epikouros and many other schools at the time, aiming at the best possible education of their members and at the formation of their morality and character. In Politics, Aristotle refers to the importance of education for the creation of a developed society. According to Plato is the great, morally and spiritually provided individual and maximum good, on which the ideal state is founded. In a modern society, ladies and gentlemen, education must develop in parallel with the state's evolution, especially as the new scientific fields are growing rapidly, as in our time. The draft law of the Ministry of Education, which we have to vote on, goes hand in hand with this development and concerns both primary and secondary education and higher education, with the main aim of upgrading them. We've spent several years personally teaching students in tertiary education. The gaps that we have objectively seen were and are real. They are blanks, which do not come from the student's academic course alone. It's empty that several kids had been carrying from school, primary, high school, high school. This leads to the undeniable conclusion that, if we try to interfere with reform at a stage of education alone, we will make a great mistake, in my opinion. As with this draft law, which has been so comprehensive, mudsome and detailed, has been presented by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, education as a whole with priority, if you like, in the early years of school. These are the ones that, according to top psychoanalysts, psychiatrists, like Freud and Ericson, are the years, which largely build the individual's personality. It is the period when we are in contact with the rules, the structure of society, the mandatory programme, responsibilities and how to coexist in a society as a whole. It's still the period that shapes the sensitivity of the individual. We have all witnessed, unfortunately, the dramatic consequences of school bullying and bowling. For this problem, the Ministry of Education provides for the existence of a school-leaving counsellor, an important institution which will manage these special situations. It is a duty to be moral to safeguard security at school. It is our duty to listen to the real problems of society. At a time when we are experiencing the dramatic consequences of climate change, it would not be possible to include environmental education as a basic lesson in our schools in the bill. At a time when mental illnesses are growing in society, it is not possible to teach children the value of mental health, respect for diversity and solidarity, through volunteering, and human rights, of course. Of course, it would be a lot behind our time if we did not give students the facilities to join the digital age and to know the many advantages that the technology explosion offers. We must, in this world, characterised by creativity and innovation, develop further skills in children, teach them the benefits of ingeniousness and creative thinking. In kindergarten, skill workshops are piloted by doing the beginning of a educational system, which will follow the next classes, focusing on learning the skills of the twenty-first century, as is typically mentioned in this bill. Four sections, divided into similar courses, depending on the level, are introduced into the primary and secondary education system and relate, firstly, to the environment, third to social awareness and responsibility, and fourthly to creative thinking and initiative. I am going to stand by the word 'initial initiative'. It is time, ladies and gentlemen, depending on the educational level, where every child is, to give him the facilities, to make decisions, so that he can have an opinion. And as the well-known philosopher Khalil Gibpran says, the true wise teacher is not the one pushing into the house of wisdom, but the one that leads you to the threshold of your mind. It is time to follow the good standards of other countries and, at the same time, to introduce an adapted system to the needs of Greek society and reality, our society that is inextricably linked to classical letters. This is why teaching is being strengthened by computer, physical education and foreign languages. In full agreement with now, the Ministry of Education proposes a bill, which is both necessary and timely. Of course, how will we know if the objective of upgrading education as a whole is really met? The answer comes with the evaluation, which is a key pillar of merit. The method of valorisation of pupils' progress is enriched, and the courses under consideration are increased. The process of promotion and dismissal of pupils is still streamlined on the basis of 10. However, this is not enough for this, and both school and educational work are evaluated, based on three-fold programming, self-assessment and external evaluation. After the quality education of pupils and infants is ensured, it is the order of rationalisation and the resolution of higher education. Improve the promotion process of the Republican authorities and introduce the academic criterion into the transcriptions. The existing economic and social criteria are still being streamlined. A single ballot of dean and anti-cryptanes is being established, which will make a decisive contribution to the smooth functioning of the dean council. Electronic voting is finally being introduced, which will eliminate the terrible phenomena - almost all of which are known - caused by minimal minorities and which have been interrupted by voting, taking ballots, blackmailing candidates and lobbyists, resulting in the frustration of the vote. I have personal, traumatic experiences from these phenomena in medical management. A homogeneous electronic body is finally established, only by members of the IGC, who have the right to vote and stand for election, as the Minister, Mr. Digalakis, analysed, a basic condition of the democratic self-government of the HEIs. Of course, photographic provisions of the previous government are being corrected, the extroversion of universities is being strengthened, foreign-language undergraduate programmes are being established, as is done in too many Europeans and non-countries. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, is globally recognised for the level of education. We are blessed that concepts such as mathematics, physics, classical studies, geometry and so many other specialities are intertwined with Greek spirit and Greek education. I hope that you, too, agree that we must make use of this. Let us once again become an example to the world, because as Aristotle said: those who have carefully studied the way in which people are governed must be convinced that the fate of nations depends on the education of young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u232	Thank you. Mr. Hussein Zabeck has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u233	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, since it is my first speech after the quarantine, to raise a number of wider issues before going to the main theme of the bill. Over the past few years it has been difficult for all of us, as the strengths of Greek society and the health system have been tested. Especially in my prefecture, the prefecture of Xanthi was recorded negatively for the Region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, with a hundred five cases and ten deaths. I would like to express my sincere condolences to those who have lost their relatives and my deepest respect and thanks first to all medical and nursing personnel, who have fought against the virus and then to all my fellow citizens who have complied with the measures. The recent results and dispersion of the virus in Xanthi prove that mass tests are a proper, though a slow step, since the initial outbreaks of the virus were not found. Sadly, the conduct of the tests is absolved of complaints of wrong results, which affects the image of the EGE and is questioning a large portion of my fellow citizens. It is therefore called upon that the relevant Ministry and EGE provide clear answers to the mistakes that might have been made about the spread of the virus and the lack of information over the previous period. Getting into the theme of the bill and reading its title for supposedly upgraded school, I really wondered what it meant to New Democracy to upgrade school. How can the stringing of anachronistic and pedagogically delegated devices constitute an upgrade for the right? Because you cannot consider upgrading the conduct to the dismissals. In fact, school, as a socialization factor for the student, takes care of his education. However, as the Parliament's Scientific Service rightly points out, there is a question of an informal record of students. What is achieved by this provision is stigmatisation and discrimination, which are extremely dangerous in our day, for example, the events that are taking place in the United States of America. A similar fresco on your part has also been seen in the case of the setting up of cameras in school classes. The general outcry, however, made the measure inapplicable. Also, you're reintroducing the issue bank. The fact that the theme bank was only implemented for one year in 2014, with the result that 24% of students remain re-tested, passes unnoticed? The right education, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is not built on stress, pressure and failure. All of this is not an upgrade, but a regression. Another point, which interest me, was the provision with the grading criteria in the relocations. The introduction of the relocations serves the socio-economic criteria of students and seeks the relief of weaker financial families. The limitation of the relocations is therefore contrary to their own purpose and prevents access to higher education. Last point, which I would like to raise, is the selection of the pilot introduction of English into the preschool timetable. Our rapporteur Nikos Philis, referred in detail to the issues of schooling and restored your entire rhetoric of good practice, which is applied to foreign countries. In many countries, it is chosen, not to learn a foreign language, but to learn languages, which are mother tongues for some parts of the population or for minorities. In 2017, the government of SYRIZA, having already completed a series of interventions in minority education, undertook to implement a political programme at the kindergartens in Thrace for the use of Turkish as a support language, with the aim of harmonious socialisation of minority children, since it is their mother tongue. On the occasion of this initiative, I would like to appreciate where we were as a minority in the period of SYRIZA governance and where we are now, with New Democracy. It is worth reminding me of the right wing against this initiative. There were little cases where minority preschoolers were under pressure so that they would not enter kindergarten and implement the programme. The introduction of Turkish into the kindergarten was not only a consistent demand for minority, but is the most important contribution to the socialisation of infants and a smooth transition to primary school. Imagine children from purely minority villages speaking Turkish at home, being suddenly invited to contact the Greek kindergarten. How could they develop the teacher - student relationship without contacting her instantly and how will the Greek name become their property? This very important intervention for us, you have abolished it. I ask you to explain to the minority why you have abolished this measure and what evidence have you been relying on? The government of SYRIZA decided to use the books of public schools in minority municipalities, where the teachers consider it appropriate. The aim was to bring minority groups closer together with the public schools. To date, the decision of the IPA Committee on the use of books is pending. It's been a year and we don't have any information at all. Obviously, you froze that, too. I'm continuing with the Xanthi Minoan High School building. At the end of 2019, in my current question, I highlighted the problems of its operation on two shifts, due to the large number of students and inadequate building infrastructures. The SYRIZA government has given a solution with the renovation of four rooms for the needs of the school. This year, however, we had the same problem again because of an increase in the number of pupils. Mrs Zacharakis answered my timely question, which said that there is no question of a new building and that the school would continue to operate on two shifts. I would therefore return if the request was retabled on the grounds of the School's Prosecutor and your argument is no longer valid. I would point out that the problem will only be resolved with a new building. We are waiting for your answer to this. As well, you should let us know if next school year we will have the same topic. Also, because a lot is being heard about the closure and mergers of minority schools in the new year, I would remind you that our government had set the limit for the operation of schools, the seven students. We hear you want to put it up to nine. There is an example of the Velochori Municipal School, the Municipality of Abderon, where the students are eight. So you're gonna turn this off for a student? Why such an attack on minority education? Finally, if we assess the situation, we see that in the issues of both education in general and especially in minority education, instead of going forward, we go back. You have not opened any dialogue with the minority. You have never been interested in her problems and continue at the same rate. You have ripped out every positive initiative of the SYRIZA government and all you're doing is mocking the minority, sharing money in return to put it in quarantine. You want to deceive the minority, and in this context it is not by chance that the avenger is prosecuted against the anti-racist educationer of the minority for posting on Facebook, nor was Mrs Nikolau's attack on my face, which you have never condemned. Just a few minutes ago, we read with surprise the statement of your Minister, Mr Karaoglou, that for the spread of the virus in Xanthi it is the families of the minority who are diverse. All of this proves the spirit of the right and its anachronistic views known. It is time to state your positions and intentions clearly at last. But you should know that in every step back that you take us, both SYRIZA and the minority together, will be against you. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u234	Mr Kotsiras has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u235	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the Ministry of Education's leadership on the speed at which it has acted during the pandemic, aligning the needs of each Greek bird in every corner of Greece and covering the gap in the educational process that has emerged from reality. Today's bill brings substantial changes to all levels of education, from kindergarten to university. Education is without doubt the main pillar of a society. We have seen many attempts to reform over the last forty years, but always or at least most have been incomplete. This draft law is, in my view, both rational and stable. It is based on three main axes, the reform of the school curricula, targeted interventions to strengthen the educational work provided and organisational and improvement arrangements in higher education. With these changes, emphasis is placed on the creation of a truly modern school, which I think we all want, regardless of which wing of the House we are serving. The cultivation of 21st century skills for students such as volunteering, ecological consciousness, road safety, prevention of dependency, entrepreneurship, prevention and protection of natural disasters, mutual respect, new technologies - to which Mr Kyranakis referred earlier - is a necessity for today, is necessary for a modern school, for a modern society. The strengthening of the institution of experimental and model schools has been a key pre-election commitment of the New Democracy, which is starting and very pleased that, with the provision of open invitations from 2020, public schools can be converted into standards and I believe, Mr Ministers, that there will soon be a school in the Western Attica with these features in order to actually strengthen the wider educational environment of a multi-stakeholder area. We are now going to the question of the evaluation which has already been heard and which has been extensively analysed by both our rapporteur and many colleagues. It is a targeted intervention that really strengthens the quality of the educational work and cannot take place without the real consensus and real support of this process by Greek teachers, teachers who daily give the battle to all the extremes of our country. I experientially speak, coming from a family of teachers and having studied at a public school at all levels of education, confessing that I honour and respect the role of the Greek teacher, who often, while being impoverished in relation to the offer offered to society, gives a battle under very difficult conditions. I believe that some small minorities, which are negative to all the reforms that at times have tried to be, do not overshadow the true and self-evident value of the Greek teacher in the wider educational process. And this proved to be the best way of responding to the difficulties of the pandemic period, where all - a very large percentage of Greek teachers - applied modern methods of teaching and were able to participate smoothly in the educational process. The regulation on school bullying is extremely important, in my view, and a modern phenomenon which has often received much more acute proportions than we have imagined. Treatment of this phenomenon, as given by this bill, is very important, since the Minister is also given further authorisation to specialize it. The provision of the school-leaving counsellor, which contributes to the management of special situations, is extremely beneficial in creating a climate, an environment that will really face this modern school ganger. Obviously there are further proposals, which will also be able to be specific to the regulatory acts that will be adopted by the administration. I am pleased that at a recent meeting in the Committee on Equality and Human Rights, in the presence of the State Secretary, Ms Zacharaki, we have discussed the issue of school bullying. Proposals have been made, some are being implemented and some can be found in the future at the level of further skills. The lesson against which it is called, I think, creates a possibility for a more global and integrated education for pupils and for the strengthening of real general education, which we must have in modern school. The research work that will exist in high school and high school, which is a precursor to how a student can function as a student next, makes a smooth "bridge" between the quality of school and the quality of the student, which often spends a long time in order to be able to cover it. The introduction of the academic criterion is a perfectly rational prediction. We strengthen the social criteria, we support the threeteen and multiple families, that is to say, we strengthen the real social character, but also giving characteristics of academic competence so that there can be an emergency relocation, such as the specific transcriptions provided for. We are now going on the subject of the Greek universities. I personally consider that we have very well Greek universities, which are really good universities, which are often unfair because we do not give them the space to develop the extroversion and poles of excellence that are already available at the level of educational staff and at the level of students. So why react to any proposal for a further extroversion of the Greek public universities? Why not want to compete with a modern international framework of education policy which often makes them unfair? It really is wrong, and they really have a lot of depth in being able to train in support of the wider process. The provision of foreign language programmes is a step in this direction. The establishment of common curricula between Greek and foreign HEIs is also a step in this direction, as is the summer programs of the HEIs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President. This extroversion has been a basic pre-election commitment by the New Democracy and Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, and with requests such as this, we are really going to liberate the Greek public universities. They have nothing to envy from foreign universities, so long as we give them the space to be able to breathe and come to international competition. I have studied at undergraduate, postgraduate and doctorate level at the Law School of Athens. I do not think it has anything to be jealous of from the major international universities. We must, however, give them room, not to have them locked up, to support any proposal there is to enable them to develop their role in a wider environment. In conclusion, I consider that this bill gives primary education the opportunity for modern knowledge, for new skills compatible with the 21st century, a secondary education that will provide global knowledge and general education and a higher education characterised by real extroversion, emphasis on research, adaptation to market needs, competitiveness and prestige. Because excellence, which has been so obscured, is nothing more than progress. If the word bothers you, let's call it progress. So this progress will be made through the public school, by the public university, which we support and we want to make it really a place where the average Greek bird can start its life and see it in front of it, without being caught in stereotypes which, unfortunately, often lead to the opposite result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, too. Mrs. Jackri has the floor now from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u237	Ladies and gentlemen, we have today to discuss and vote on a bill concerning the substance and foundation of Hellenism, education. I studied this bill very carefully and concluded that despite the philosophical efforts and the intricate efforts made by its authors to excite the concept of regression, this bill eventually comes directly from the time of the authoritarian history of the Right, fading out all the historical lines of the Greek films of the 1960s, and I wonder what morbid conservative brain you indicated to adopt all these authoritarian ideas of cosmopolitan conduct in the digital era, whose return is not just symbolically repulsive, is deeply hostile to the fundamental value of freedom of thought and expression in the educational environment. And because she was the same from a student I was identified with the great democratic claims of 10% for education and instead of 309 and later identified with the bills that established the free and democratic school, the free and democratic university, I want to tell you from here the Stepma that in 1991 on Father Mitsotakis attempted to make the schools camps and your Minister left at night from the Ministry. And I wonder what led you, what is your real political motive, and you deleted from the curriculum a lesson, sociology, to enter a dead language instead, which is fully respected and valuable and could be a lesson optional for students or compulsory for students in some schools, which are proven to be related to Latin language. I didn't have it to you, Minister, but it seems that you finally have the microbe of authoritarianism and under your polite modesty, camouflage a second personality, another self, a human militant in the perception expressed by Mr. Voridis at the election in 2019, that you must rule in such a way that you can remove the possibility of having socialist progressive governance in this place. Finally, the child, Mrs. Minister, said third word Kyriakos or Makis, because according to your CV, you are Kyriakos, but according to your works you are Vorides. You remove sociology, because you're afraid of any social process. I think that if Mr Mitsotakis keeps you in the upcoming reform, the next reform will be the separation of schools in females and males and the reintroduction of official school dress. This time we're going to talk about the blue apron and I'm absolutely certain that someone will find Mr. Mitsotakis to sew it directly, and I'm also sure that a certain amount of money will be found in his ministry to publish it for a quarter on all channels, newspapers and radios, so that we can all be convinced how important it is to wear it in school. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to point out a few points which, in my view, demonstrate my scepticism towards this bill. I am not even tempted to deal with smoke screens and minor differences in the perceptions you are artificially leaking, because there are fundamental legal disagreements here. It is not enough for you to undermine the future of teenagers with the designation of conduct. You also bring the innovative wording, which we will then see, because I will come back to student status. And I'm saying I'm going to come back, because I can't promote the shameless creation of class separation and the completely unscrupulous reproduction of class discrimination at the source, that is, at school, in primary and secondary education. Are you bringing the issue of the creation of the model schools, which will not be introduced by drawers, but will you seriously claim that we should vote on this and trust you to specify after the criteria and content of the examinations? So because you are capable of interviewing your twelve-year-olds to spend your own children, and because I can't even imagine what you're going to invent for six-year-olds, I denounce you from this Step that you're trying to install methods of infant eugenics. You want your own children with a referral MP to enter these schools, which will be one in every county, as you have always done. And you come and tell the children that the Constitution is something forgotten in the drawer, because you are effectively abolishing equality on opportunities. And as if that were not enough, you are bringing us from the back door the term "student qualification". Why don't you tell us, Minister, what exactly are you trying to achieve with this bill? Because we are sure that, apart from the two-speed schools you are creating, you are effectively abolishing the equality of learning opportunities, you are slugging one of the last atrocities of this state, which is the pan-Hellenic exams. Because if we today approve the concept of student qualification, this combined with the qualification of conduct, forms a potentially morbid point system of favorability for your own children. Prosperity and the calibration of degrees and the mobilisation of the AACC's competitions. You want students soldiers, you want students soldiers, you want a schoolcarament ONED. And that even if you voted for it, it will actually fall from the uproar that it is causing. Ladies and gentlemen, there are other dark points in this bill, but well hidden in the transitional provisions and other clearly unambiguously, such as the provision on transfers. Are you seriously coming to a winter-timed society, one week of full-blown examinations with the families of children abandoned in the poverty of EUR 800 for four months, and are you asking us to vote for the ban on relocations, in case the base of the school of destination exceeds two thousand and fifty molesters the basis of the school of each successor or any successor? I really want to ask you if you were a family hit by the crisis, and your child would spend eight hundred kilometers away from your home not at a necessarily bad university, but at a low-demand university because of distance and cost of study, how would you like to know whether Mrs. Keramea was coming and told you that she is setting a criterion between similar schools of both supervised by the same Ministry? Because the child who passes through Mytilini, Mrs. Kerameos, passes with full-blown tests and his pen drips from the sweat of his parents. And he goes to a Greek university and not to a questionable quality college friend of your party! Madam Minister, I would ask you to withdraw this provision, because none of us know what the situation of our country can be in a year and whether we have a second wave of pandemics, which can impoverish us more. I would, however, like to say here, ladies and gentlemen, to be fair that, personally, I agree with the idea of evaluation and, indeed, ongoing evaluation and training and retraining of teachers. Schools are made for students, and because they are our children we have to give the best we can do and because after all - the Greek citizens pay for these services, the concept of evaluation finds me in agreement. Not, however, as you bring it in the sense of self-assessing school units by a mixture of internal and external ratings, which shouts from miles away that you are ready to create a new market. Don't be surprised, ladies and gentlemen, if in a few months' time private companies have been entrusted with the external evaluation of public school. And I don't blame you, neoliberals you were and you're, we've ruined your business with the direct assignments of health care materials to hospitals, we've ruined your work with the direct assignments to the decontamination companies in prison, we've ruined your success store tourism with the unreasonable method of rehabilitating the EOT, you want something to come out of you, so, that's not gonna come out of you. Private evaluators of the public school are not going to exist, not because we say it, but because the whole society is saying it, and in the face of the opposition to your bill is the IACC of teachers, your trade union party, which was devoid of the public consultation of the bill. Madam Minister, I would like to ask first of all and I would like to ask, in general terms, that this vision and the mood for reforms be stopped in every Minister of Education. This situation prevails, all levels of education and all the educational community hanging from the lips of a minister, who comes and leaves with the first reshaping, must finally stop. Changes in education must be made with cross-party consent. They must be done by continuous consultation. If not everyone - because it is very difficult to achieve this - at least most of the people involved in the education process. In any case, anyone who sits for a few months or a year and a half in the Minister of Education's chair cannot bring him an entire educational system. Because, if you already want me to take the view of society outwards, these actions and these political narcissisms appear more like ridiculous things, which do not take into account any barrages of reform. I think that much more important work would be done if you hadn't voted for any educational bills during your term of office. On the contrary, if you applied the laws that already apply, trying to secure more money for people, material infrastructure and resources...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u238	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u239	Mr President, I want a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u240	You're in nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u241	...for physical infrastructures and tools, that is, buildings, and the introduction of new technologies to education, which are absolutely necessary in order to improve them. If you were to try to make the existing system more operational, rather than holding a hammer and a knive to continuously demolish and renovate the existing structure, then you would have much more chance of having history to record you as a good Minister of Education. These should be your main concern. For example, incorporate five major projects into the NSRF that will be completed in five to seven years. This is how the countries and all the major projects currently in existence in the country lasted for at least a decade to complete. But you're not interested in education moving forward. You don't care to have public schools competing with private buildings. You do not care about public schools' infrastructures being equal to private ones. You don't care to spend time and time introducing new technologies into schools in the age of the internet,...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u242	Your Honor, please, you've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u243	...the digital era and the era of e-learning, in which you were tested and stubbornly failed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u244	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, I will end in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u246	You've reached ten minutes from seven minutes. Here, check your time. I didn't stop you at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u247	All you are interested in is making noises on the Ministerial Council, going out on five channels to tell us about your vision, pull out two press releases and produce another useless FEK at the National Printing Office.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u248	Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u249	Mr President, with this in mind, at the end of the middle class, which you supposedly supported so much, I will once pay public education through its taxes, and once the schoolmaster will have regular buildings, regular sports facilities, regular hours by 5 p.m. and regular enough digital facilities. Ma'am, I don't know what's sadder, the anachronistic provisions of your bill or the fact that you're such a young man...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u250	Please, you've been in 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u251	...which comes to avenge public education and return to unfamiliar times when society has condemned them. Mr President, I should like to say that I am voting against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u252	Thank you. Mrs Maria Head of State from New Democracy now has the floor. There's been a slight change with Mr. Syragos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u253	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill approaches the vital national area of education with a view to reforming it at all levels. And it has been known since November 2018, because then the New Democracy presented its full programme for education, which was accepted and voted in favour of by the Greek people. So it is in full knowledge and influence of Greek society. Today, the government and the Ministry implement these commitments. So we reconstruct education throughout its range, according to the needs of society and the requirements of modern times. We're discharged of ideology training. We are introducing changes with a project from the bottom up, with interventions from the kindergarten, the organization of primary and secondary education to the way students enter higher education. Changes in reasonable and justified terms, changes based on scientific knowledge and international best practices. We therefore allow children and their families, teachers and all interested parties to make their plans without overturning and surprises. The bill moves on three main axes: firstly, we reform school curricula. Secondly, we are intervening targeted to strengthen the educational work provided and, thirdly, to promote organisational and improvemental arrangements in higher education. With this draft law, we are introducing improvements to the educational programme and to the educational processes. We pilot the skills workshops in the mandatory preschool, primary and high school program from the next school year. We stress the cultivation of skills. We aim at the wider cultivation and education of pupils with new themes. We have been putting them in touch from an early age with concepts such as volunteering, road safety, prevention of dependency, mutual respect, diversity, robotics, entrepreneurship. Introducing the experiential learning of English through creative activities and strengthening the teaching of computers, classics, physical education and foreign languages. We are broadening the methods for estimating pupils' progress. We are now introducing research work in the context of evaluation. The introduction of the course against the third grade, history for those in the practical direction and mathematics for the theory children, is also a pretext for the introduction of the course against the third grade, so that students are not cut off from the philosophy and the mechanism of thinking of the other directions. We amplify the general education that will be measured in the dismissal, with the aim of developing as many people as possible in the difficult climate of High School prepared for the Greek exams. We streamline the process of the promotion and dismissal of pupils, setting '10' as a rating. We are strengthening and broadening, ladies and gentlemen, the institution of pilot and experimental schools. Since September, there will be twenty-eight standards and thirty-four experimental schools in the country, and then there will be an expansion of the institution. Although the function of the model high school in the Ioannina region is a yearly demand, it has not been implemented until now. We thank the leadership of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, which responded directly and zealously to the serious issues we raised before it. Last October I raised the possibility of setting up and running a high school model in Ioannina. The standard high school of Ioannina is a hive of students who have excellence, innovation and critical thinking as their guide. This educational process of students at the standard high school of Ioannina was, however, abruptly interrupted, as there was no standard high school in the region, as is the case with all other school models in the country. In adopting this resolution we welcome to Yannina the model high school of Ioannina as a natural development of the standard high school. We are then taking steps to make school units more efficient, such as double mobilisation for difficult areas. The main problem of the staffing of school units in primary and secondary education in remote and inaccessible areas of our country was raised by the Ministry. And let us not forget that it was SYRIZA who abolished double moleculosis, so that the positions in remote and inaccessible schools are no longer attractive and educational gaps are created, because the other Greece who finds it difficult to live in difficult areas requires the Greek state to learn its own children letters and have a teacher on the first day of the courses. That is why we are reintroducing the dual molecules system as an incentive to fill vacancies of teachers in these remote and inappropriate areas. We are successful in providing incentives to teachers who will teach children in Symi and Distratos Ioannina and other remote places. So we prove that no child should fall short of education. We're not buying discounts. We are also strengthening the extroversion of universities. We provide legislation to establish foreign-language undergraduate programs, autonomous from each HEI, the establishment of common and dual study programs between Greek and foreign HEIs as well as summer programs absolutely necessary in modern reality. Ladies and gentlemen, a philosophy that is clear about modern school and education is reflected in this draft law. We seek to build a school that will preserve and promote our cultural identity. A school that responds without fear and prejudice to the needs, challenges and opportunities of our time. You are accusing us, colleagues of the SYRIZA, of stating the conduct of children's dismissals as a legislative initiative that is emerging upholding and authoritarianism. We want children to see school in the later society that will join as active citizens next. After all, they vote from the seventeen and are active and therefore responsible citizens. To socialize properly, without fears and syndromes, but with morals and principles. We encourage children to pursue excellence. We frame the students and provide all the necessary equipment from the young ages, but also further engage in the fields that match them and inspire them, where they are inclined. This draft law places education at the microscope and focuses on its core. What's the core of education? The student, ladies and gentlemen. We see the school as the strongest lever in social mobility. We want to form students with infrastructure. We want to form citizens with principles and virtues, people who will chase their own dreams, because the student is the future. It's the continuity of society, of the state. It's hope for a better tomorrow. We are serving the goal of creating equal opportunities for Greece. We'll constantly aim at a better school, a better university for all. We will be constantly struggling to highlight the excellent quality of our educational community, our teachers. We will constantly seek to give our young people more and more supplies. Personally as a Member of Parliament, as a doctor, but above all as a person who has lived up to today students, reads, listens and learns in public schools and universities, and in practice proves their value and importance, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u254	Thank you for the time first of all. Mr. Pericles Mandas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill that we are voting on today, we are implementing important commitments from the New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis through the agreement that he had concluded with the Greek people before the 2019 elections. The people have given them the mandate to bring about significant changes in too many areas in our country, as in the area of education. The first key issue which I think is to strengthen and broaden the institution of pilot and experimental schools. I really am listening all day to the rival from Opposition, and I think there is no thorough, substantiated opposition tactic on this issue. Who is he who doesn't voluntarily want to operate such schools in our country? Who is it that does not want students who have the opportunity and wish to join such a school, to not have the opportunity to do so? Who is it that no longer wants to allow the level of education in high school and high school to evolve, to become more modern, to be able to students really receive the education they are required to receive in the 21st century? Clearly it is an element that regains issues relating to the political decriminalisation of excellence, which we have been trying since the first day we took up as government, an excellence so excellence that has been so swayed by the previous government, but above all, that it has been so much targeted. Secondly, a key issue which solves the bill today is the establishment of a coherent framework for the evaluation of the school unit and the educational project. Again, we hear voices about teachers who react, fear evaluation and do not want it. I appreciate it, ladies and gentlemen, that no teacher is afraid of evaluation. No teacher from those who took this difficult period in the last three months of education in our country and took the huge step into the pandemic with closed schools being able to offer their services. No teacher from those who are invited each year to run to the most remote part of our country to serve their duties and offer their services to students. None of them should be afraid! Those who fear are the ones who fear their position. They are those who have other criteria, particularly trade unions and politicians. Also, Minister, allow me to tell you at this point on a matter which I think is very serious. Teachers in recent years have lived through various provisions, different drafts that have changed, and in fact have changed their lives. The double moleculosis we are reinstated I think we all agree that it is in the right direction, because the one who is called upon to serve in remote areas clearly and has to take double molecules in order to make this process more attractive. But if we look a little back in the last ten years, we will find that double molecules existed, stopped and re-entered. There are teachers who have chosen on the basis of every law they have had in recent years to create their lives, to make in the coming years how and where they will move, how to gather the molecules in order to end up and go to schools they want. In particular, the previous government, with the choice of the 2019 Act and the abolition of double molecules, has actually made it difficult for this whole process. It is in the right direction and the penalties provided for in this bill so that those who do not cover the positions will have a penalty of exclusion. But we must consider the following: Many times an alternate teacher or teacher is called upon to cover the position in November, January, December. What if this professor refuses? From September to December and January, how will he cover his life financially? Won't he be looking for another job? He cannot have the same sentence as someone who will reject the position in September or October. We should check this and show greater credibility to the teachers who have lived on all these changes in the laws in recent years. The third key issue of the bill is the strengthening of the extroversion of universities. And can anyone really argue that the Greek universities should make use of partnerships with foreign universities? They should make use of the accumulated know-how that exists in other countries, as do other countries, to use our own know-how. Who can disagree that the foreign language departments should operate within the Greek universities? And why would that be negative for normal courses? There can be no documented opposite view on this part. The whole society sees it as demanding in the future. The fourth key issue of this bill is the introduction of digital skills. Do you really think the educational program in our schools, in primary, in high school and in high school is a programme that is modern? Is it a programme that meets the needs of the 21st century? Does it meet the needs of the future with the technological revolution, with all this modernisation that's happening around us? Don't you need improvement? Do we not have to deal with important issues that are missing at the moment from the education of our children? I listened to and became a whole story and a lot of talk and a dormitory for English in kindergarten. We really have wasted so much time talking about English in kindergarten, something obvious! I have a 10-year-old child who has been following it since I am young and who every day receives so much information and so much fermentation from his friends, which is clear to say that he must, of course, and from the age of the kindergarten have to be in the foreign language process. It is not simple to harmonize with private schools, even if this was an opportunity for the whole education system. I would like to end by saying this, Mr President: the left believes that education is a privileged political area for it. We can agree that we disagree on this part and that is not bad. As also, it is not wrong to have a different view. Also, it is not bad, dear friends, colleagues of counterpopulation, many of you have chosen foreign universities to do your studies, private universities or not. The bad news, however, is that since you have chosen many of you foreign universities to make your studies important, to come to the Greek Parliament and not to vote for the revision of Article 16. And in fact, for at least ten years, you have been mortgaged on our country's educational future. Also, it is not bad for your children to go to experimental and standards and private schools. However, it is bad that since your children - some of you - go to private, experimental and standard schools, come here and bail out in favour of public free education, and be part of the press that standards and experimental schools are 'clarification in the guts of public education'. Society wants schools and universities of modern, openly competitive, secure, worthy of history, culture and the future of our country. So what we promised, we will do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr. Mada. Mr Syrigos from New Democracy has the floor now and we are completing the process with Mr Calliano.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u257	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to today's debate, I sometimes have the feeling that we are talking about a magical picture. The magical picture is the real situation of our education and, unfortunately, the real situation of our education is reflected in international competitions involving our country. The most important is the PISA competition, the international student evaluation programme. In the final competition, which took place in 2018, six thousand four hundred three students from two hundred and fifty-six schools, public and private, participated throughout the country. What does the contest ask? Is it adapted to the laws of the divergent labour market, as we have heard before? Oh, no. He's asking three things. Asks for text understanding, math and physics. Our country fell below average. In fact, thirty-four of the thirty-four of the thirty-seven OECD countries and forty-third of the total of seventy-nine countries came out. It's below average. Unfortunately, this is the reality of Greek education. What do we have to do? Sit down and see how we improve our education, how we move it forward. I heard the Opposition speak and say about the watch that came back. Ladies and gentlemen, if the clock came back at some point, it was with the educational reforms of SYRIZA in 2015-2019. I had a feeling many times that we were back in the 1980s at a speed. Now we are moving forward, and that is something society has demanded. Ask the parents of children, when they were announced in 2012-13 that they will function the first experimental schools with what joy they had prepared their children to take part in these competitions to go to the standard schools. How disappointed, when they lost this advantage that they had to take part in model schools, when on one night most of them were named experimentally, they ceased to have the meaning "to help the best". Ladies and gentlemen, education in Greece is of enormous importance - the Minister mentioned it too - because she has offered social mobility. The farmer’s child, the worker’s child, can, by studying at the university, change social order. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. Next to that, Minister, let me add something more: the importance of the pan-Hellenic examinations. In all the studies that are carried out there is a common belief between students, parents and the entire Greek society. It's a tough one, but impeccable system. That it is a fair system is something very good in a country that has institutions many times in about. It's a system in which you think the guy with the money won't pass, but he's the best. In this sense, it is extremely positive and it is a happy moment that a bill of this kind is currently coming, which enables standards and experimental schools to stand firm on their feet. What are these schools? Let me refer here, using the expressions of Mr Palhei. He asked: "The same training opportunities have the child of the shipowner and industrialist as the worker's child?" Unfortunately, no. The model schools, which are all over the country, give him this possibility. Is that the same school in the pigeon and in Katali? Response: Standard school is the same everywhere in Peristeri and in Katali and where it is built, because it is a model school. It is a school for all Greeks and, above all, for the poorest social classes. It is a network that spreads throughout Greece. I have the honour of being a genuine child of Greek public education. I finished public school, public school, public high school, public high school. I finished the Greek public university at the Law School of Athens and had the luck of finishing a model school. In this sense, Minister, I am pleased to return to an institution which really enables the children of poor families to enter and compete with the children of the industrialist and shipowners, who have the opportunity to go to private schools, to take care of themselves. It is extremely important that within the standard school the worker’s child competes on equal terms with the child of the trader, the lawyer, the doctor. I lived it, experienced it in my school years. Minister, just a little comment and a request: at some point we can see the issue of the creation of experimental schools and in areas with special population groups, in areas where there are minorities, in areas where there are Roma - they are not Roma minorities - in areas where they are degraded. To see the creation of experimental schools so that we can help the children move forward. Last comment on Chapter III, Mr. Digalakis, for higher education. I was glad to see first-cycle courses in foreign languages, I saw foreign-language double-education programmes within the same university, I saw double-teaching programs with degrees that can be obtained from two different universities, and I saw summer programs. These are things that they had first seen abroad in the early 1990s. That is, we are talking about a modern school, we are talking about a modern education, and we are bringing changes for which there is resistance to things that the rest of the world has already been doing since the 1990s. Finally, they come to Greece, thank God! I hope that soon we will also see them at a postgraduate level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u258	Thank you. You're impeccable in time. We are completing the process with Mr Calliano from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u259	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the draft law to be passed reveals how each of us perceives and sees tomorrow and the future of our country. Because education is about the children who are the future. Regrettably, however, the Qualified Opposition perceives education as another field of coexistence with old trade unionist logics, which have the past as a point of reference alone. So, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, this debate demonstrates the gap that separates us. We are talking about tomorrow, and you are talking about yesterday, clinging to your anachronistic ideas, which you have unfolded one - one in a thousand six hundred and twenty-five days of disastrous government, overcoming not only education, but also the country as a whole. So this bill comes not only to heal the wounds you left in education, but to respond in a affirmative and active way to the challenges of modern times by modernising the educational system from the bottom up, from kindergartens to higher education. He was in the New Democracy program since 2018. It has been our basic pre-election commitment. And today we come to this commitment to do it. I understand, therefore, that your consistency of speech and work by the New Democracy Government creates additional discomfort and irritation, ladies and gentlemen, of the Anti-Population Officer. And that makes very sense. I must say, however, that your inconsistency and a turn of eighty degrees - not three hundred sixty degrees, I will tell you as a mathematician - was for us, the government, the best example to avoid. And therefore thank you for that. Ladies and gentlemen, no one claims that this legislative initiative solves all the problems in education, but all those necessary and necessary conditions are created so that our educational system can go hand in hand with its era. And this is done by the first article of the bill with the introduction to primary and secondary training of skill labs, an action which has also been fragmented by SYRIZA colleagues since they seem to think it is a negative thing to cultivate skills in the 21st century. And yes, youth entrepreneurship is a skill that needs to be implanted in young children. And of course, yes, it's not bad for that to happen. It's bad to stick to his fossilized ideas yesterday. I would suggest, Minister, and I would like you to look into this in the future, that it be introduced from the last grades of primary school and the lesson of economics in order to combat economic illiteracy, on which populists always stand, in order to mislead the citizens, who, if they do not have the basic knowledge of how the economy works, so the world can easily be deceived. The next article, Article 2 on the introduction of English into kindergartens, I never thought it would cause such a great debate about something that makes sense. Of course, SYRIZA and logic don't go together. We've understood it all these years. So it makes perfect sense to react. We heard during the drafting of the bill that behind this provision a alleged US-interest service plan is under way. And these things were taken seriously. While SYRIZA argued that immigrant and Turkish languages should be introduced into schools at the school of Thrace. So I reverse the question to all SYRIZA colleagues: You, SYRIZA colleagues, what interests do you want to serve with these proposals? I believe no one but your idealism. So let go of the pheasies and conspiracy. I now come to the HEIs in an important provision which is the creation of foreign-language departments in universities, a very important provision as it will attract foreign students to our country by strengthening the internationalisation of Greek universities and cooperation with foreign academic institutions, as well as the academic self-sufficient. And they call that a disgrace to the university in SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, despair was the vague increase in the number of universities and university departments on your day - remembering very well what had happened then - following the logic: Every city and one stage, every village and a gym, and thus creating armies of young people with a degree without a reflection. We want a modern university extroverts, no molotovs and cadrons. We want a university at the top of the investigation, which will give degrees with an impact. Standard schools. I'd like to stand on this. Because, here it is fully understood who in practice supports the weakest and who is not. You called SYRIZA's model schools 'carcinomas in the hearts of education'. Carcinomas in the hearts of education, ladies and gentlemen, it is the logic of the levelling-up of equilibrium down and the minor effort that you have made. School models are ladders to grow, exploit their potential and defeat their destiny, without being subjected to it, children not of elites as you say, but of middle and poor sections. And you want to take this ladder of social mobility, while many of you have had the luxury of not needing it, to confirm, once again, that you really want a society that everyone will be equitable down so that you can convince - supposedly - then with your ideas. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] How hypocritical is it really to say that you are defending the people's family and at the same time preventing the growth of its children? In fact, however, you represent the economic elite that, anyway, they send their children to private schools. What you do not want is the elite of worthyness, that is, people who, regardless of social and economic payroll, excellence and offer to society as a whole. You want to work on poverty and its producers rather than alleviate social inequalities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I'll be done. You represent, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, the maintenance of misery and toxicity and not the progress made, the progress of the people who are free to create the future that they want in a society of equal opportunities rather than equal results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u260	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u261	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u262	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u263	Mr President, because of the fatigue, it has been a long process, we will not insist on a second word of our rapporteur. But I would like to ask, Mr President, for the rapporteurs of all the parties tomorrow to be tolerated in their report, despite the fact that it is an article in the debate and to pass it on to the President-in-Office tomorrow morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u264	I just want to tell you that everyone was there on the basis of the evidence: Mrs. Kefalidou spoke twenty-two minutes. Mr. Delis spoke 20 minutes. Mr. Friend spoke 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, we are not complaining. We're just saying, it's natural, we're all tired.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u266	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u267	We are talking about our rapporteurs, although the debate is pursuant to Rule, to have a tolerance for their suggestion, for all the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u268	We'll transfer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u269	Yeah, it's an interesting conversation, it's an important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: 'Strengthening the School and other provisions'. Before we close, I would like to inform you that a request has been made for a roll-call vote by the Members of the Communist Party of Greece in principle and on Articles 5, 9, 68, 73 and 82 of the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-09-S1-commons.u271	With the consent of the House at 21.48 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, 10 June 2020 at 9.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical debate, and (b) legislative work, continuation of the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: "Strengthening the School and other provisions".
