ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Discussion on the motion of censure against the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stakoura, submitted by the Chief of Officerial Representation and Chairman of the Group of the Radical Left coalition - Progressive Alliance of Alexis Tsipras and 85 Members of the Group's Parliamentary Group, in accordance with Rules 84 of the Constitution and 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. The debate will take place in accordance with Rules 84 of the Constitution and 142 of the Rules of Procedure, in conjunction with the appropriate application of Rules 91(5) and 97 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. In particular, with regard to the organisation of the debate, I would suggest that the procedure followed should be as follows: The debate will begin with the speech of the two Members of the Radical Left coalition Group - Progressive Alliance, Ephes Achtsioglou and Panagiotis Skourletis, appointed by their parliamentary group and signing the motion of censure. Speaking time is 15 minutes for everyone, and I would like to say publicly, and I have done so in private, for keeping, not only from the first two, but from all the speakers since there are a large number of Members who want and deserve to speak and we must protect them. In the interests of health and safety for all of us from COVID -19 and in order to avoid aggregation in plenary I propose that speakers should not be registered with the electronic system as defined in Rule 142(5) of the Rules of Procedure, but that they should be entered with a list of speakers given by the parliamentary groups. I therefore propose that Members' speeches should be organised in dozens of speaking circles. Pursuant to paragraph 5 of Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, each cycle will be composed of twelve Members, namely: five Members will come from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, three from the Radical Left Coalition Group - Progressive Alliance and one MEP from each of the other four parliamentary groups, with a speech time of seven minutes without the right to second. The parliamentary groups have already submitted a list of speakers, as I am aware, and the competent authority has drawn up a single list, which will alternate members of the Assembly with the MPs of the opposition, in order to respect the proportion of the parliamentary power of the parties. The Members of the Association will alternate with the MPs of the Opposition as follows: First, New Democracy, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance then, third, New Democracy, Fourth, Change Movement, fifth, New Democracy, sixth, SYRIZA, Seventh, Seventh, New Democracy, Eighth, KKE, ninth, New Democracy, 10th, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, 11th, Greek Solution, 12th, Mer25. The chairmen of the parliamentary groups, as defined in Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, may also, if they so wish, participate in the debate. The speech of the Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and the Chief of Officerial Representation and Chairman of the Radical Left Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexis Tsipras can last for up to twenty minutes for the Presidents of the remaining four parliamentary groups. The Ministers, the Deputy Ministers and the Undersecretaries may take the floor for ten minutes. The Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stakoras, against whom the motion of censure is directed may take the floor for eighteen minutes. The Parliamentary Representatives up to 12 minutes. If, however, the President-in-Office of the Parliamentary Group spoke before us, the parliamentary representative will be confined to the time of his dentistry and teratology, that is to say six and three minutes respectively, in accordance with Rule 167(2) of the Rules of Procedure. Finally, I propose that the maximum number of Members present at the same time in plenary for each of the three meetings on the motion of censure should be, as we had previously decided in the Conference of Presidents, sixty Members, thirty-two of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, seventeen of the SYRIZA, four from the Change Movement, three from the Communist Party of Greece, two from the Greek Parliamentary Group and two from the MEDA25. I propose that the debate be concluded by 8 p.m. on Sunday morning, that the roll-call vote be followed by the roll-call vote. Last, as we've been informed, the Prime Minister will speak. The Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups will speak in reverse order on Sunday, as we have been informed by the parliamentary groups, as the programme statements conclude. The decision shall be taken by roll-call vote, to be taken by electronic system in accordance with the provisions of Articles 142(4) and (5), in conjunction with Articles 141(3) and 72 of the Rules of Procedure. As the Chamber can attend at the same time, as I said before, the maximum of sixty Members will be given to the lists of Members who will vote naturally with the electronic system. The other Members will vote by letters, which will be sent to the Bureau, in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, which will be taken into account in the count. This decision is taken by an absolute majority of the total number of Members, i.e. 50 and one votes, as defined in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, as they apply. Today's meeting will be closed by 2 p.m. Saturday's second session will begin at 9 a.m. It was for 10:00, it will start at 9:00 - we are trying as much time as we can to make it available to as many Members as possible - and it will be completed at 23:00. From tomorrow, as we know, the curfew begins after 00.00, so the House will be well adapted. The third session on Sunday 25 October will also begin at 9: 00 and will be completed at 20: 00, when the roll-call vote will begin, with the aim of ending the entire procedure no later than 22: 00. Any changes in the order of speaking should be made in exceptional cases, in a document from the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group to which Members belong, addressed here, to the Bureau and on the condition that mutual change is necessary. Are we all right? Does the House agree with this overall proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u3	Here, Mr. Chakaloto, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. In our view, every effort must be made to speak to all the Members, especially the Members who have signed the proposal that we are discussing and that can be done in different ways. I think that the Greek people will forgive Parliament for going slower and later tomorrow. We're not sitting here for a vacation. We are doing something very important and it is part of democracy and I do not think it will be taken as an exception to Members. We can think towards the end of reducing time from seven to five minutes. I think it is extremely important that all the Members who have signed this proposal should speak. The second thing I would like to point out to you, Mr President, is something that we have seen before, we have felt before: It is this experience of the last day where the ministers speak and then the Heads of State and indeed the last day, the process is very one-party, so I would ask you to ensure that, on the last day, the ministers can speak, but it will be between at least five Members with the system you announced in general...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u5	With the dozens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u6	With the dozens. Because we have seen this system other times in place for the first two days, but toward the end, the ministers should come and have the ruling party a period of six hours, with almost no opposition. That is what I think it should be avoided and I think that all sides of Parliament will agree with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Chakalotos spoke right. I won't repeat what he said. However, I would like to make a reference to our party. We have fourteen speakers. In no way, however often the procedure does not go as we anticipate, we will not be willing to talk less. All fourteen Members will speak, which is why you have to be a bit flexible. We prefer a meeting to be late for the end. We prefer an interruption to be shorter, even though I understand the fatigue of the officials in this House, but we will never agree to speak less than our parliamentary group. We are at a top moment - you know - we are in the exercise of an instrument of parliamentary control which is not the highest, because the highest is the committees of inquiry - it was wrongly said yesterday to be the highest - but it is the next thing, mistrust towards the Minister or the government. Therefore, in this very heavy and serious parliamentary procedure, one should not fall short of one's wish to participate. We want to participate. We will be voting in favour of the motion of censure, but we want to explain our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u10	On behalf of the JRC, Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, as we have heard, you have spoken about the circles of twelve speakers. We think it is right - it has happened in the past in almost all the motions of censure or similar cases - that at least the first cycle must be one of each party. They will speak with SYRIZA, after the New Democracy, then follow PASOK, KKE, Greek Solution and Mera25. At least it's the first cycle. To be able to express themselves as soon as possible and not to spend one or two hours to speak to parties. To be able to speak. If it is seven minutes, the speeches, at least in the first category, should be ten minutes, so that the representatives of the parties, at least, can express the view of each party on this proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u12	From the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. We agree with Mr Karathanasopoulos's proposal. Obviously it is fairer so that all Members can speak and have all the time, so that we can hear all the views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u14	Mrs Adamopoulou has the floor since Merra25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. We agree with Mr Karathanasopoulos's proposal, with the JRC's proposal. We believe that in any case it is more democratic. It ensures greater pluralism. We would like this proposal to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Adamopoulou. I understand that the list of speakers on a point of order has been exhausted. Firstly, on the basis of the openings and closings which I have mentioned in the speeches on this motion of censure will be over thirty-three hours. If one sees the past, thirty - three hours are one of the longest time available to discuss a motion of censure. A great deal is therefore responding to what you have rightly claimed to speak as much as possible from keeping time. We'll see in the process if we need to reduce some time. But the key is to keep the time, even today, of the present time I have announced. Mr Carathanasopoulou, Mr Loverdos, Mrs Adamopoulou, Mr Viliardo, there is no permanent model of how it starts a similar debate, if, that is, it starts with six different ones or the dozen that it starts today. We have just come to the conclusion that the first twelve of each party will speak a little more than seven minutes in order to incorporate in this grouping the twelve or more times, which is needed for the first speakers from each party. That is what I have to tell you at the moment. It's a dynamic development. We talked about all this with colleagues before we started the debate. I think it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u18	It'll trigger secondarys. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u19	It is right that you have said that there is no specific practice. But if you look at the Minutes, all the last motions of censure were made in the concrete way we proposed. It is understandable that if a party's representative waits for eleven speakers to speak, he will speak after two or a half hours. So you understand very well that the first expression of the position of the first representative of each party is going too late, Mr President. That is why we say it is in the Bureau's power. This can be done, in the first six speakers, to be one of each party and then the dozens begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u20	That logic has been incorporated into the dozen. Let's say the JRC isn't eleven. It's fifth. In other words, the logic of priority has been incorporated in the dozen. With both-three more minutes, which will be given, one of the parties has to be a quasi-sponsor. Does the House agree with this overall proposal, such as...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u22	Here, Mr. Kegerolwa, you have the floor. We've got three days ahead of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u23	How many dozens do you think they'll talk these days?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u24	I'll tell you in a minute. Does the House agree with this overall proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u25	The House unanimously agreed. The dozens will be at least fourteen, Mr. Kegeroglu. The floor has been raised by the Member of the State, Ephi Ahtzioglu, for 15 minutes. I stress once again the need to keep up with the time, so that we can achieve what has been called for by all the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of a great pandemic crisis. The strengths of all of us, the whole of society, are primarily tested in the supreme good of public health, but also in the economy. The New Democracy Government has made its choice, not to review its strategic orientation in the economy. He chose to continue and accelerate in the midst of a pandemic without interruption, without even any reversal of the straightforward policy of attacking workers, of the overall restructuring of the market against small and medium-sized enterprises, of the compression of popular households, of the compression of medium-sized households, of the expansion of inequalities, that is, the policy that had begun to exercise before the coronary, long before one of us heard about the coronary and had already led to an economic and social deadlock. He made this choice even though he had freedom, even though he had the margins and had the margins to do otherwise. Public funds filled, regulated debt, reserves of 37 billion from the previous government, an unprecedented liquidity by the European Central Bank, no commitment to budgetary objectives after the Stability Pact has been suspended. However, the Government has insisted on the same strategy: to intervene only in order to deregulation the labour market, to intervene only in order to reduce wages, to remove labour rights, not to intervene in the banks to provide liquidity, not to intervene in order to grant subsidies to small and medium-sized enterprises, not to intervene in support of professionals. And a few days ago with its bankruptcy bill, the government decided to give the gift shot to a society that already bleeds out of a hundred and thirty thousand unemployed, saying that if there are no so many people who will lose their jobs in the next few months, in a society that one out of three small and medium-sized enterprises says will close in the next few months, businesses that have endured the eight-year period of the financial crisis, in a society that professionals experience the defiance of their incomes and are mocked by the government by "Social Age". Who's gonna forget these scandals? In such a society, in this society, the government decided to bring its bankruptcy bill. While citizens experience an unprecedented insecurity, an unprecedented uncertainty not only for public health, but also for their economic survival, you came with your bill to hang on to them a huge threat, the threat of bankruptcy, the threat of confiscation of property, the threat of extermination. With this bill, Mr. Stakoura, you dumped the glove in society and we picked it up. This motion of censure is from the very society that you are clearly ignoring. You brought a bill that has as its only priority the liquidation of citizens' property, as if the problem of society at the moment is that their assets are not rapidly liquidated to pay the bankers. You brought a bill that everyone, the employees, the professionals, the pensioners, the civil servants, is bankrupt, as is the case with a large company. You have brought a bill, which does not just take away from the citizens what they owe at the time they go bankrupt, but also what they get afterward, a bill of horizontal poverty. You brought a bill by which 81% of small and medium-sized enterprises that are currently suffocating may automatically lead to bankruptcy. You brought a bill that abolishes horizontally and definitively the protection of first residence for all, for the middle-class, for the people's households, for vulnerable citizens. It definitively abolishes the protection, which was maintained in one way or another throughout the years of the crisis and the memoranda of all governments. I think that this protection is a slight abolition of the heart today. No citizen on the next day of the vote on this bill, no citizen who owes it, will have the property of his home. Nobody! Absolutely no one! You brought in a bill that makes the poorest and poorer and tells them that they will be able to regain their home after twelve years, after paying rents for all these years, after you will take them what they have been bankrupt and after twelve years, after they will pay them back to their commercial value, without taking into account what these twelve years gave, nor what they gave until they have reddened their loan. You have brought in a bill giving the power to resolve the problem, which delivers the keys to the solution, in other words, to the problem, exclusively to the banks. They will have the complete freedom to decide whether to regulate a citizen if they do not regulate him, if they lead him to bankruptcy, how the auctioning will take place, what transactions will be interrupted, everything. At no time, Mr Stakoura, this bill would not be acceptable. But, especially at this point in time, in these conditions of uncertainty, of the generalised economic and health crisis, this bill is a challenge. And it is even more challenging the way you are trying to present it in society, with the help, of course, of the friendly media that you feed, as a second chance. At the time when society broke up at the expense of the new crisis, instead of helping her stand up, you want to give her the "block". The government has the political responsibility for this "responsibility" to do so. But he has it, especially the one who is accelerating it. In other words, you, Mr Staikora, as Minister of Finance. What didn't we all tell you? All of the opposition. And what the workers' representatives, the consumer representatives, the citizens' representatives, the country's lawyers, have not told you to withdraw this bill. You insisted. More than that. You actually chose not to talk to the arguments against the bill. You said that the intention of the bill is not liquidation, when the letter of the law itself defines as the aim of speeding up the liquidation of the entire property and removing the purpose of maintaining a business's survival. You said that with your bill you prevent bankruptcy, when you have placed all the process at the banks, when you give them freedom by law not to regulate a citizen who has debts, to lead him to bankruptcy and to control it. You said that with your bill, the citizens will have three difficult years, but then they will be over and relieved of debts, when this right to exemption already has it with the existing law, without going bankrupt and without losing their first residence. You said that over time, citizens pay to keep their home. But with you, they don't keep their house. Citizens pay and lose the house. Finally, you said that the bankruptcy of natural persons, employees and households is already foreseen. It was planned - it says - by the law of Katseli. When this law expressly and clearly says that it does not address persons who have not been in bankruptcy. It is not addressed to the enterprises. When this law does not touch, it does not go bankrupt with the employees, the free, the professionals, the retired. Perhaps of all your arguments that made me more worried because it shows that you do not understand what bankruptcy is. We've answered all this over and over again. And instead of reviewing, instead of even trying to answer what we have said, you pressed on the "supplier" and said it again from the beginning, as if no one had spoken in the intervening period. And after these arguments were fixed, the reverses began. "Do not say SYRIZA who..." etc., "do not speak the SYRIZA who raised the private debt." We've already answered. We testified for the Minutes. 80% of the private debt was created before 2015. SYRIZA didn't rule then, as far as I know. Nowadays, non-performing loans to banks have been reduced by 22 billion. I'm returning the Bank of Greece's figures for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Efi Ahtzioglu, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] "Do not speak the SYRIZA who has abolished the protection of the first residence." We told you so, and the lawyers told you. Protection of first residence means property, means the citizen being the owner of his home. On all the laws that have applied throughout the period of crisis, and in particular on SYRIZA's day, this right was retained by the citizen, by the people and by the people and by medium-sized households, to remain the owner of his home. This right, at the moment, you are abolishing it, with the political responsibility you take for the horizontal abolition. "Do not speak the SYRIZA who has committed to the institutions for the future abolition of protection." And here you're starting to be a little contradictory. Because or had SYRIZA abolished the protection, so did he undertake to do what in future to reintroduce the repealed ones? Or he had not abolished it and whenever he committed himself to doing something quickly in the future. In any case, to answer these commitments too, although we have already answered them. I repeat for the Minutes what SYRIZA said in April 2019. We said it in public, we have no problem admitting it. We are talking about the need to have a more complete law on what was, indeed, the case, and to integrate and integrate, and to have an overall framework for the protection of the first residence and the regulation of debts, obviously. However, we did not say that the protection of first residence should be phased out. I am presenting for the Minutes what SYRIZA said and there is also in the reports of the memorial surveillance. [[At this point, the Member, Efi Ahtzioglu, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] But what did New Democracy say in November 2019? I'm reading you on this. Memorandum of Understanding: ‘The free enforcement against any collateral provided for the provision of loans, including first residence’, will be ensured. Here, who expressly commits to abolishing the protection of first residence! I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Efi Ahtzioglu, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And a few months later, in February 2020, New Democracy says: ‘The Greek authorities reiterate, reaffirm their commitment that the protection of the first residence will expire in April 2020’. So, protection existed until then, it wasn't that SYRIZA had abolished it. So who is expressly committed to abolishing the protection of first residence? And to finish this whole story and prove to you that the New Democracy has long been in its mind that the solution to the private debt problem will come through the lifting of the protection of the first residence. In 2014, a series of publications in the newspapers "Kathimerini", "THEA", "NAYTERVORIC" presented the plan of Mr. Hardouvelis. Do you know what Mr. Hardouvel's plan is? I would point out, for the record, all the relevant publications. "Rents instead of a dose for red housing loans, since banks will have taken ownership of their homes first." That was the New Democracy plan from 2014 and we have just delayed it for five years. [[At this point, the Member, Efi Ahtzioglu, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I don't know, of course, what these recursions matter today. I will use a phrase said by a colleague - not by SYRIZA - of the Opposition yesterday: 'If you think that we are not credible myself, Mr Tsakalotos - forget who speaks, leave aside who speaks - see exactly what you are doing today. In the midst of this juncture, you arrange for everyone to go bankrupt, for anyone who owes and loses their home.” You have reached the point when you say that operators, workers' representatives, small and medium-sized enterprises, consumers, have praised you for the bill. Lawyers' Pleasant: “The bill ends the protection of first residence. The message is that your only solution is bankruptcy. This is the message you send to the consistent debtors who have endured within the decade, GSEW: "The government is at this juncture to legislate how to close small and medium-sized enterprises." Consumers' union: 'This bill does not contain protection of the main residence. It is hypocritical to talk about protecting the main residence." HSY: "The cessation of payments of the bill can pave the way for massive bankruptcies which are viable and therefore deprive the market of their presence, the jobs of the workers". National Civil Protection Federation: "With this bill there can be an uncontrolled spread of bankruptcy. It tightens even more the nipple of overcompensation in the neck of the inferior and vulnerable households." And there are so many more that I will return to the Minutes. And you're saying your society praises you for this bill? Mr. Gerapetritis came in yesterday and came to the point that the opposition hasn't said anything about the bankrupt so long and now he's having a show? Are we serious? Have you themselves believed that bubble of virtual reality that has been built by the media? Did you believe her? And because you keep talking about the irresponsibility of the Anti-Population, about SYRIZA's irresponsibility, which dares to bring in such conditions a motion of censure - it says - it is, perhaps restrained, and this: the greatest irresponsibility has it, who, while he has the power to take decisions, does not listen to society, who, while all of them say that what he does is not right, that what he does is wrong, he insists that he does the right thing. The even greater irresponsibility is shown by the one who does not listen and dares to say that no one has spoken. That is where the essence of irresponsibility lies. And if your irresponsibility is that, in the midst of a pandemic crisis, SYRIZA is making a motion of censure, for us political responsibility is that, in the midst of a pandemic crisis, you are accelerating the confiscation of citizens' property. This is political responsibility and this burden falls upon you both for this bill and for the conditions that you have cultivated, so that this bill is, ultimately, a generalised threat to the vast majority of citizens, that it should be the graceful shot. Amid a pandemic crisis, you have not shaken the recession. You have reduced the income of citizens, while you have had the weapons not to do so, you have reduced the wages, you have introduced unpaid work, you have subsidised unemployment, you have reduced the income of citizens, you have given - where you have given - loans instead of grants and increased the debt of citizens. You have also suspended payments, without providing liquidity and cumulated citizens' debts. You told the citizens at the time of the pandemic - it has been said by the financial staff - 'nothing is.' And in a few months' time, when you are looking for what you are not paying, in your view, that you are looking for these payments, these debts that have been accumulated, the average citizen will be the idea of the bankrupt person you are planning in this bill, it will be the ideal for bankruptcy. You cultivate the ground for those who will call them'strategic malpractices' tomorrow and you will get what they have and do not. And we will not allow that to happen. We therefore call on all Members of Parliament to vote in favour of the motion of censure against the Minister of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u27	The second speaker from the parliamentary group, who tabled the motion of censure, is now being called upon at Step, Mr Panos Skourletis, also for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by asking a rhetorical question. Do you think it is accidental that until yesterday afternoon in almost any newspaper, with exceptions, on almost no websites of great popularity, was the news of what we were talking about, was not the news of a law, about a bankruptcy code, which comes to overthrow the data? Is it random or isn't it about tens of thousands of our fellow citizens? Obviously, it concerns them, and you know it well. But this picture is the reflection of your government's relations with the banking system itself, with the banks, by mediating the upcoming media. Here we have a new power block now, bank capital - government. Of course, your relationship with the information you have captured in the best way, in the most eloquent way, in the most revealing way with what you have done with placing, that is, under the supervision of the Prime Minister, the RES and the ERT. Is it happening in any other democratic European country? But you just got the slap from S.T.E. the day before yesterday. with his opinion that took off this anti-constitutional arrangement. I imagine you'll fix it. Ladies and gentlemen, you have therefore adopted a specific communication strategy. For every measure, for every bill you bring, knowing that this affects a large part of society, you are making sure you cover up for its real content. You did it in the elections too. Do you remember that election program in the newspapers? What chapter was missing? I'll answer the question because I see you awkward. The insurance fund was missing. Your intention to privatise supplementary pensions and insurance was lacking. Or isn't it? So what are you doing? You start and unleash a criticism of the previous government. You are opposed to today's opposition. Can we get some recent examples? Just a few days ago, you brought a provision, which leads to the end of 'LARCO'. Have you come out and had the nerve to say that SYRIZA, who stopped the complaint of this company, dismantled the administrations you had put up, which, even though they didn't, bankrupt the operation, when, in this Chamber, the question was raised a few days ago that these administrations were not involved with the responsibility that they were going and booked contracts, when they were for a decade low the price of aluminium and while they saw that everything was showing that they were going up, depriving the company of profits? Privatizations: Come here and tell us "What can we do? We are bound by the previous government." You intend - and you are proud of it - to privatise businesses, which have public control, such as the IPTO, who is currently carrying out the largest project of electricity interconnection in Europe and say you will, because SYRIZA has done so. Did you forget that you were committed to privatisation by 65% of IPTO, while we kept 51% under public control? I shall continue with other examples, too. But you had the courage - and that cannot be forgiven - after the Greek justice's historic decision to condemn the Golden Dawn, to go out and talk about SYRIZA's responsibilities. Don't you look where the Bunny has left you, don't you see where you can't catch the Pope, but do you show a great skill in catching the fifteen-year-old students? They don't get away with you! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Are you talking about SYRIZA's responsibilities, rather than bowing to this historic decision, which came to justify the struggles of all the anti-Fascist movement of previous years? Obviously, it is justified, because there are selective affinity between your specific members and those opinions. Ladies and gentlemen, you are arrogant. Except this arrogance, do you know where it's going? In a virtual reality, the virtual reality of the media. So now with the Banking Code you are coming here and beyond the abolition of the protection of the first residence, import something that is deeply antisocial, which is an incision to Greek things, the concept of bankruptcy of natural persons. It's an introduction from Anglo-Saxon law. You know that this road will lead to bankruptcy, the realisation of assets for dozens of households, for dozens of businesses, but you don't care. What is being confirmed at the moment is the nature of your party, your policy as a party of banks. You are the political expression at the moment of the banks and of all those who want to remain on the market few and strong. How is that confirmed? What you haven't done these months of pandemic. You left small and medium-sized enterprises in their luck. You've done the least possible. You give false figures of the amounts that you give from the state budget to support labour and small and medium-sized enterprises. Or isn't it? 4,6 billion is neither 24 nor 26, where you sum up loans and other things. We are talking about specific budgetary expenditure and these are very specific, they are the least in Europe. And for work you have the fewer actions related to the 'SURE' programme to support it, only four actions. At least look at the example of Portugal and other economies, which are in our size. Of course, this all responds to the real nature of your policy. You were electorally telling us that you were a party that defends growth for all when we told you that we wanted to express the interests of the many. Beyond the instability of the phrase, in the current circumstances there is no growth for everyone and you know it very well. You know that, who, in your policy over the past few years, created the "swamp" of property. Or does it have anything to do with what we're dealing with today? The social problem that exists at the moment with the highly indebted households with the "switch" of the property was not within your perception, in your own policy model? And that was not only Greece. You know that very well. Ladies and gentlemen, you are not interested in what is coming. You do not care, while we are in pandemic conditions, while people feel unsafe for their health, while there is an evolving recession, while incomes are falling, while unemployment is escalating. Did you really read the UNHCR report that talks about 12% of the workers paid less than 200 euros a month? Under 200 euros a month! This is your work. And while you have the possibilities, while there is a suspension of the Stability Pact, while the budget expenditure is currently not counted for this year and for the time being on the financial result, you are indifferent, because you have a plan, the expression of the interests of the few. That also explains the phrases of your executives for businesses that must be undisturbed, for weak links that must remain out of the market. But who are the ones affected by this policy that you are defending? It's the middle layers. You know what? Those who are on the verge of poverty, and below that, those who received aid through social solidarity income or the various benefits do not have a home to lose. These were never in the perspective of your own policy. We supported them as a priority - and we did well - in 2015, when we lived in humanitarian crisis conditions. But those who promised them rocked rabbits today leave them in the colds of the bath. Unfortunately, the mesostrates with this policy are waiting for very difficult days. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the Prime Minister made a motion to Greek citizens and announced the new measures for the pandemic. He told us that it is necessary, among other things, to wear masks both indoors and outdoors. That's right. We agree, at the moment, that this measure is supported by the scientific community. But it has to be done all the previous months not to let citizens stack like sardines in public transport. Is it true, Prime Minister, that the new buses you ordered don't have windows? The new buses you ordered don't have windows? Are we going to go to winter or summer, where the conditions of health crisis may not apply, with vehicles that cannot be ventilated? [[Noise in the Chamber from the New Democracy Wing]] It was necessary from the first few months that we were faced with the pandemic to put a plan of permanent intakes into health. You know that these expenditures are also excluded from the financial result. The whole of Europe is doing it. You don't do it. Auxiliary contractors you get. And all you care about is opening up space to private structures, so they can win over profit. Refugee to prescribe the diagnostic test. But a simple blood test today you go to the doctor and write it down, gives you the recipe, and you have your own involvement. How can you do that? It's possible, because what you care about is to open space to private individuals. You didn't take any steps to find more rooms. You took no measure through extraordinary recruitment to teachers to change the ratio, reduce the proportion of teachers and learners. Didn't you know all this? To the only thing you've intervened, from what I saw -- I guess it was right that this measure -- was to say that there won't be any fans on the field. It was right, but obviously the Minister responsible hadn't informed him and said more. But you knew to double the hospital for private ITH. You know how to do tricks that supposedly reached almost a thousand ICUs, when you know that they are summed up by the private sector that existed, when you know that part of these ICUs is the result of converting care units and other beds. So it is not so much of what has been added over your days. Mostly, however, you do this dangerous to public health: you do not have the proper staff for these ICMs to serve them. Intensive treatment units don't only need the palmographer, oxygen, bed. They also need qualified doctors and you take them from other places, creating health gaps. Is it or isn't it? These questions, which we asked the Minister for Health yesterday, were not answered. Unfortunately, we weren't answered. So yesterday, in addressing youth, you told them that they should channel their radicalism and take the pandemic case into their hands by setting a good example. That's what young people and young people are doing today asking open schools with sanitary conditions, and you're answering them with violence, with MAs, with arrests! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Yes, indeed, this youth seemed mature more mature than your own government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Noise in the Chamber from the New Democracy Wing]] Otherwise, I don't expect you to understand me. It's obvious. But I would like you to listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u29	I would ask the speaker to conclude. Keep going, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that they are indeed hours of responsibility for all of us. They don't have much of a word. We are aware of our own limits when we were in government, because they were the limits that were determined by a bankruptcy in which you led the country, you and those who ruled and yet we stopped it categorically. We the vicious circle of memorials stopped him. You because you are conducting a Memorandum Policy, and they do not exist. Unless this old saying is true: 'And if the memorials were not there, we should invent them'. Otherwise - and I conclude, Mr President - your government is doing very well. All televisions say so. They say it all the means. Keep it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u32	It is not the case that this is the case. You know how it's done. There is another way of doing this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u33	How can't it be? I would like to say in the Rules of Procedure, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u34	I want to follow the procedure, we said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u35	To keep up with it, but you announced and agreed on the dozenth of the previous days. A card has been given with speakers, and perhaps from this paper you said fourteen dozen. I would therefore inform you that after Mrs Soulis - Viliali Maria - Eleni there is no speaker in the New Democracy. And I'm saying, is that true?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u36	It's not final!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u37	Excuse me, I imagine the Prime Minister will take note of the fact that many want to speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u38	Listen, the list is ongoing. The list has not been finalised.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u39	Well, I say to you, then, that the Rules of Procedure say that after the end of the second speaker, Mr Skourletis, the list should be closed. One is that. And the second...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u40	We've changed our way of writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u41	I know. And the second...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u42	We've all agreed to change the way to register.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u43	But I don't disagree. The second thing I would like to ask you to do - and say so, I have asked for the floor on a point of order - is whether the ministers who are also Members are counted as Ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u44	As ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u45	So, New Democracy, instead of a hundred and fifty-eight Members, has an eighty-eight? Understand? That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u46	Listen, there has been a matter of ministers before. The subject has been raised. You saw, you weren't here before. I wondered about the ministers. The ministers will not interfere with the flow of Members' speeches. There will be plenty of time between the Ministers' speeches and there will not be even the last day barrages of successive Ministers. It will respect the rotation with several Members of Parliament among the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, I say, of course, that the ministers may not interfere with the flow of speakers. Don't you understand? Take note of you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u48	If I am not mistaken, the motion of censure is against a minister, so the ministers as a whole are entitled to reply, unless you wish only the Members to speak. In any case, at this moment I feel that we too are blocking the flow of speakers. The Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, Lysia in the preamble to the speech 'Super-Imperial' wrote: 'Mr. Memorials, I am not far from owering gratitude to the prosecutor, because he prepared me here, because I had no reason to answer for my life, now it is the cost that I have taken.' And that is what I will do in introduction today and in my position on Sunday, in response to the untimely, ruthless and hypocritical motion of distrust tabled by the Qualified Opposition and President of Mrs Tsipras against my face. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the motion of censure is timeless. At the same time, at the same time as Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and as a whole the New Democracy Government are taking a serious multi-faceted battle, with responsibility, in order to address the health crisis and the Turkish challenges, at the same time as the historic trial for democracy was completed with the condemnation of the Golden Dawn. So, once again, the Qualified Opposition proves - in conditions of general discomfort and inability to articulate an alternative proposal on the crucial issues facing the country and its citizens - that it seeks to speculate politically on the concerns of society. He's out of his mind. This is a dead-end micro-political tactic. Evidence of your deadlock, the deadlock of Officerial Opposition, was yesterday's debate in the House. In their speech, both the rapporteur and the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, did not request the withdrawal of the bill. You did it, Mr. Tsipras, a little later. The Qualified Opposition also did not submit a request for non-constitutionality, since no relevant issue was raised, as the report of the Parliament's Scientific Service confirmed. A few minutes later, SYRIZA's rapporteur dragged behind the Mera25. Tricymia! Ladies and gentlemen, I also support the suggestion of a lack of trust in Officerial Opposition. Mr. Tsipras accuses the Finance Minister of failing to support society. He blames him for failing to deal with the financial consequences of the pandemic. And he blames him for implementing policies that brought down the recession. Mr. Tsipras, the reality is falsifying your rating crises. It could not happen otherwise, since these are based on arbitrary bases, possibly even delusional ones, I don't know that. Over the last 15 months, in the Ministry of Finance, through creative cooperation between the political leadership and the important contribution of public administration and partners, which I thank again publicly, a great deal has been done. In particular, fourteen bills were passed aimed at achieving high and sustainable growth, creating many good jobs and strengthening social cohesion. Some of these, as you often repeat, have not been able to legislate. Secondly, we are indeed implementing a new mix of fiscal policy aimed at reducing the tax burden on households and businesses in SYRIZA for all citizens, but above all for the weaker income groups. In particular, the Government of New Democracy has already permanently reduced, I repeat in a permanent way, taxes and insurance contributions. We have reduced the income tax on natural persons for the lowest income layers with an import rate of 9% and increased the tax on each child. We reduced HNVIA by 22%, we exempted the inhabitants of small remote islands from HNVIA. We have reduced the income tax to 24% for all businesses and small businesses. We reduced the tax on distributed profits to 5%. We have reduced insurance contributions for full-time employees since last June. We suspended VAT on new buildings. We provide a strong tax incentive to invest in a green economy, in energy, in digitisation. We have motivated natural persons who contribute investment funds to start-ups. We have established investment incentives for scientific and technological research costs. We did this in a permanent place. However, even within the health crisis, the Government of New Democracy has also made significant, non-permanent reductions in taxes and insurance contributions. This is because, in the European institutions' decisions, the European budgets cannot include permanent budgetary measures as long as this crisis lasts. You therefore realise that the proposal that you have tabled directly into the can of unusable ones. In particular, we have reduced and in some cases reduced the advance payment of income tax on natural and legal persons, covered by the State budget by insurance contributions on nominal wages and employers' insurance contributions on seasonal enterprises. We voted against VAT payment in the future by 25% for future tax liabilities, and we have provided a 25% discount on the regulated tax and insurance debts paid in the short term. We reduced VAT on transportation services, non-alcoholic beverages, cinema tickets, theatrical performances, concerts. They were also calling for MPs from Officer Responsibility who visited me in my office. We are reducing private insurance contributions by three percentage points. We are abolishing the solidarity levy - and it would be a state law today, if you had not made this irresponsible move yesterday - on incomes derived from private economic activity. We are forming - and it would be the law of the state today - a new framework for tax debt regulation and for October, with which the state is urging households and businesses to help, providing very important facilities for meeting their obligations. So, yes, we're different. You have increased taxes, we are reducing taxes and anticipating that, when the parenthesis of the health crisis is closed, and depending on the country's financial potential and the priorities of the government, some of these taxes and insurance contributions or others can simulate their reductions. Therefore, it is too much for us to be shaken by those who imposed a multitude of new taxes on Greek households in previous years. Thirdly, we have received a coherent, dynamic, effective package of fifty-nine meters, which will exceed EUR 24 billion at the end of the year, simplifying a wide protection net in households and businesses, in order to limit, as far as possible, the adverse economic and social consequences of the health crisis. Our aim is to strengthen the National Health System by providing equipment, health and staff support, to strengthen affected natural and legal persons, to strengthen education and public transport, to provide liquidity to businesses until now. Through three financial instruments have fallen into the real economy of EUR 7 billion, what has not fallen down in the past ten years. Our aim is to support employment, strengthen the unemployed, the seasonal workers, support vulnerable borrowers, support for owners of property, support for sectors that have been severely affected by the health crisis, such as tourism, focusing, culture, sport, transport, the primary sector and support for areas most affected by its pandemic and its consequences. The correctness of these political choices has been recognised within and outside Greece. I am tabling the relevant reports from the institutions and the competent European institutions, as is the last statement by the head of the Eurogroup. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Fourthly, both before and during the health crisis, we are planning and implementing policies, which are governed by the principle of social justice, with support for employment and income. We have provided incentives to deal with hypogenicity. We have given and given new and more birth grants to mountainous disadvantaged areas, to strengthen the minimum guaranteed income. For the first time, we incorporate homeless and abused women who are staying in guesthouses to the minimum guaranteed income. We continued and strengthened OPEKA's actions to support vulnerable social groups. We have provided an advance payment - instead of you - in the course of the extended heating allowance in order to facilitate vulnerable households and an even more socially fair system is under way. We are more supportive of low-wage people by special-purpose compensation. We have extended and extended frequent and extraordinary unemployment benefits. We have strengthened social tourism programmes. We support the long-term unemployed as part of the programme to create many new jobs. We are implementing a state grant programme for the monthly loan instalment for vulnerable - information and non-domestics, protecting their first residence. We are now paying back sums to public and private pensioners. Therefore, it is a great deal too much to shake the fingers of those who, among other things, reduced duty-free, cut off the CSCE and imposed or increased health contributions. Fifthly, both before and during the health crisis, we have implemented and implemented significant structural changes in order to create many good jobs. Complex investment projects, such as the Greek one, proceeded. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Competitive procedures for the use of regional ports have been launched. Projects to strengthen the viability of assets such as ELVO, Scaramaga shipyards, LARCO and EAB were launched. The ‘HRAKLIS’ programme was implemented with a view to systemically reducing red loans to banks’ portfolios. The institutional framework for corporate governance and the capital market has been modernised. It has been established - you have not prevented - the microfinance framework. Tax interventions and investment incentives were promoted to strengthen the development process of the Greek economy. An alternative method of taxation for attracting investors and pensioners has been revised. The new institutional framework for online gambling has been put in place. I know. You haven't been there since December 2017. Incorporated into the national legal order a Community directive on money laundering and a public consultation has been completed and the draft law on the limitation of smuggling has been put in place. We are making use of time within the period of the health crisis to run the reforms needed by the country to create the conditions for a strong recovery and then for high, sustainable, smart and inclusive growth. We are preparing ourselves with a plan, vision, determination and methodicity to make effective use of the many resources of the Recovery and Stability Fund. I would stress that our country, with the actions of Prime Minister Mitsotakis, and on the basis of the estimates which have so far been made, has taken the first place as a percentage of GDP among the Eurozone countries as regards the part of grants. Ladies and gentlemen, the correctness of this policy, which I have presented to you on five lines, and which has as a priority the combination of economic efficiency and social justice, is recognised by the real economy, the partners, investors, the markets. The real economy is recognised, since the economic climate index after its great support after the elections is maintained, despite the pressures due to the health crisis at European level. I've got the painting on it. Greece here, in 2015, had reached some very low points. I think you know why. I'm filing him in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stagioras, presents for the minutes the above table which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Recognised by the partners with the four positive assessments of enhanced surveillance, in which the country has been located since the summer of 2018, within one year. It is recognised by investors, as the establishment of a state-of-the-art “MICROSOFT” centre in Greece has recently confirmed, and the strong interest in the resolution programme. It is recognised by markets, since the country's borrowing costs have been reduced to historically low levels. At this point I would stress that so far since the summer of 2019, the New Democracy Government has strengthened the country's cash reserves, which are currently at EUR 36.9 billion, with EUR 16 billion through seven successful long-term debt issues in international markets, EUR 16 billion with 1/3 of the costs that you were lending. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] At the top of last year's issue of 15-year bonds with the lowest historical loan costs in our country. I put this in the Minutes too. As far as development is concerned, the economy has grown by 1,9% in 2019, as it emerged from ELSTAT's figures, since 2018, higher - hold this - for the first time since 2009 from the average performance of the economies of the euro area countries. I'm filing the relevant table. And in the first half of 2020, according to the provisional figures, the economy decreased by 7.9%, when on average in Europe the decline was 9% and in some countries such as Italy, France and Spain, the recession was 11.7%, 12.3% and 13.1%. I think that says something about the policies pursued by the New Democracy Government. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I support the proposal to distrust the Civilian Opposition Officer on economic policy being implemented. It's hypocritical about SYRIZA, who returned the economy to the recession in 2015. It is hypocritical for the SYRIZA that imposed and maintained capital restrictions over four years. It is hypocritical for SYRIZA that led taxpayers to huge losses of capital by unnecessarily third recapitalisation. And I put it in the Minutes. And finally, it is hypocritical for SYRIZA to legislate on electronic auctions and abolished horizontal protection of the first home. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about SYRIZA and you, Mr. Tsipras, who while you argued that as long as SYRIZA exists, the auctions will not take place in Greece, you have legislation on 19 May 2017 for the first time in Greece the electronic auctions. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are talking about SYRIZA and you, Mr. Tsipras, who while you argued that unless there are auctions in a foreign country, we will not apply them to Greece, you have proceeded from November 2017 in a year and a half in twenty-five thousand six hundred seventy two auctions. Even the most beautiful: Evaluation Report, February 2019. You have been praised by the institutions for overcoming the objectives of implementing electronic auctions. Look at the chart how it grows. And you received congratulations and credit from the institutions you have made more electronic auctions from the objectives that have been set for you. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We're talking about SYRIZA and you, Mr. Tsipras, who, at first, supported the motto 'No house in the hands of a banker', then executives told you 'The electronic auctions are important not only to have good banks' - banks, huh? - 'but also for developmental and social reasons'. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We're talking about SYRIZA and you, Mr. Tsipras, who while supporting seismicism, we abolished in 2019 by law horizontally protecting the first home on February 13, 2019. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] How much more hypocrisy do you have, Mr. Tsipras, and your party? You are SYRIZA of taxes, electronic auctions and the horizontal abolition of protection of first home. And some, before I finish, briefly commenting on what I have heard from the two rapporteurs of Officerial Representation: 'We have given' I heard 'the keys to the banks'. I'm sorry, weren't you on the board? Have you not understood what the banks said? They disagree with the banks and sent letters in particular to the institutions to change the legislative structure. I've told you many times. And the banks told the House specifically about the extrajudicial compromise. Stop lying. You said we should listen to society. And we're really listening to society. The rapporteur has presented some reports from SYRIZA. Why didn't he say it all? Athens Chamber of Commerce: "The bill comes to speed up the procedures so that no one will stay enclaved and should have gone bankrupt". Trade and Entrepreneurship Confederation: "We are looking positively at the new regulation process. The mechanisms of early warning are absolutely necessary. We are positively dealing with the capitalisation of debts. Positive to the automated process. Positively the dosing subsidy procedure. Even the last part, the rental subsidy.” Let's go to other bodies too: borrowers, consumers, citizens. So the draft law will be passed at an appropriate time. We do not call it the President of the National Confederation of Loan Protection Associations, Consumers and Citizens. That's all we need to know. You said - although I think that the evidence proves - that there was protection of first residence and you invoked some bodies. I'm sorry, Athens Lawyers' Pleasants Pleasant: “The protection of the first residence has ceased since February 2019.” I'M GIVEN: "Actually, at the moment, there is absolutely no regime of protection of the main residence. It has ceased to exist since February 2019.’ What are you saying? And what happened? Why don't you tell the truth? We have said it several times: ‘Protection of first residence does not exist horizontally since February 2019’. Then you came and made a scheme, a temporary scheme by the end of the year, for a limited perimeter that was not even ninety thousand borrowers and with very strict criteria to protect until the end of the year the first residence of red loans until the end of 2018. And on this platform by the end of 2019, a thousand five hundred borrowers entered. And when the rapporteur said about the commitments we made, I know much better than you did what I took to Eurogroup to extend this six-month scheme by seven months, four more and three. And then bring another law, the "GEOFERRA" law, to help citizens for nine more months. So be very careful because your signatures remain. Let's have something for Sunday. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in five minutes. What do we compare to that? We are comparing a holistic plan. Let me insist on two points and I will be placed on Sunday: for us the protection of first residence is now established as a permanent social protection policy for vulnerable households. It is a permanent programme, has no maturity or maturity. Secondly, a comprehensive solution is provided to the problem of household goodwill. An out-of-court mechanism shall be established with repayment of up to two hundred forty instalments for debts to banks, loan managers and public authorities. This is how we provide a favourable, long-term and sustainable debt settlement to natural and legal persons. The debtor if he pays off his debts in up to twenty years saves his entire property and not only his first residence and protects his income. Third, State aid is granted for first-stage loans of vulnerable households for five years. So we help the debtor cope with total debt settlement and rescue the entire property. Fourthly, there is a complete deletion of all debts to persons unable to repay their debts. In this case we give a second chance, with rapid procedures, by deletion of debts, by liquidating the entire property. And fifthly, especially for the protection of the first home of vulnerable households, with strong or full economic weakness, a private body is set up to buy the first home of vulnerable households and then it is obliged to lease it to them. The State practically supports these weak citizens, providing a rental allowance, as already provided to those who do not own a private residence at the level set by the previous government of SYRIZA. With this legislative package we provide a permanent social protection policy for vulnerable households. I hear you say - and the rapporteur has said - 'complete liquidation, we go bankrupt'. The purpose of the bill is the opposite. It is avoidance of bankruptcy, which is why it contains in particular two axes: prevention, with early warning and treatment, with the out-of-court settlement mechanism. I repeat: if a debtor regulates all of his debts in up to two hundred forty instalments, then he saves his entire property. However, if a debtor fails to repay his debts, even under favourable conditions, in up to twenty years, then in practice he has been bankrupt. In this case, too, the law provides for discharge of all debts, so that it receives a second chance. So, then, the law aims to enable the debtor to find a definitive, sustainable solution for his debts so that they will not be transferred to the next generations, which were so far led to what? In a legacy renunciation. Recall what is now happening with the institutional framework that we received from SYRIZA? Today, if a debtor does not pay his debts, then his creditors confiscate and auction and as soon as they take his entire property and first home, since there is no protection, then the citizen continues to owe him. Therefore, creditors are turning against the incomes of their own and their family. Moreover, he cannot acquire new property, such as legacy, because his creditors confiscate any new income or asset. That's why children are declaring inheritances to save parents' debts. Ladies and gentlemen, I am currently stopping here. After all, we have said enough yesterday and we will say more at the end of the procedure. I'll close my location as I started. I thank Mr Tsipras and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group for the opportunity to unfold the work that has been done in the Ministry of Finance under extremely difficult and unforeseen conditions worldwide, which I have the honour and responsibility, with the Prime Minister's mandate, together with worthy colleagues, to serve. In the Ministry of Finance we work hard, we work with modesty, seriousness, responsibility with a word, Mr Tsipras, integrity. We serve and serve with debt, responsibility and consistency of our country, the good pages of the history of the Greek people and the prospect of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u50	He has asked for the floor, as he is entitled, as a parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Tsakalotos, but for the smallest part of his time, his three-minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u51	It's in Article 64, if I'm not mistaken. That's it, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u52	It's for your three-minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u53	Good. It won't be my main speech. That's what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u54	No, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u55	In a speech that was so hard to answer in three minutes, so I will not bother to answer the accusation that SYRIZA is the party of taxes, auctions and the abolition of first home. All these arguments have been degraded in the last three, four days and Mr Stagioras has come here and has not said any new arguments and has not only said any new arguments, he has simply not listened to and did not respond to what we have said, none of the arguments I have said, which Mrs Ahtsoglou said, which other Members have said and beyond SYRIZA. No one, though! He's not listening. I just want to say for two things: first of all, regarding the accusation that we are trying to speculate politically on the concerns of society, really? Are you really saying that, Mr. Stacura and your colleagues, who said before SYRIZA came out that we need to get the money out of the banks? You guys talking about chaos? You guys talking about a fourth memorial? You who went down to the squares with the people for the Prespes? Will you say that we're speculating? And the second argument you said and which I would like to contradict: we are trying to change the agenda, that you are dealing with the COVID -19 and with the Golden Dawn, and there is SYRIZA who is not interested in COVID -19, despite having opposed you to the issue of health, which you had never thought of such a responsible opposition. And the whole world knows who fought not to hide the matter of Golden Dawn. We - you say - did it to change the agenda. Mr. Skourletis said about the debate we had on the bankruptcy case that he was hidden from all the newspapers and all your websites. I, on the most popular site today, tried to see what he said about the debate of censure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u56	Does it have ours and yours?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u57	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u58	And to see what it says about the debate of censure, apart from the krone and the Turkish, I had to read about the historical agreement in Libya, about the revocation of pasta by the FFET, about the attack by Panagiotis Lafazanis on Mr. Tsipras, about the change of time on Sunday, about how many germs collect the jewelry, about the French egos for Emily in Paris, about the accessories that will have the laptops to fly, for a wedding in Kozani - to live, about the new plates in the taxi and then I could read about it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr. Gerapitris even said that he reversed the reproach and said that he was against Mr. Tsipras and against me. The only reproach you could make, Mr. Gerapetritis, for me is that I'm trying to ruin the PM's weekend and nothing else. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And you should know that if Mr. Mitsotakis wanted to support Mr. Stakoura, he should have been here yesterday for the bankruptcy and not hide. He would then be supported by Mr. Stakoura and would be supported by him if he turned this reproach into a reproach of the government. But he leaves him the way he is, because he really wants to avoid any conversation about the bankruptcy, and we won't let you hide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u59	As you can see, Mr. Stakoras is entitled to give an answer and then Mr. Loverdes has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u60	I would also like to thank you, Mr Tsakalotos, after Mr Tsipras, for the good words you said the other day. They helped me too much. I never expected you to dive in the first half of 2015. It is not a very privileged place, nor a period to discuss, but, at any rate, we can have a special debate on it. But I want to draw attention to two things. What's a responsible opposition? A responsible opposition is when someone finds himself in the opposition - but has ruled - to respect its signature and that is very important, because it also commits the country. Secondly, you in particular should be more careful about this bill, because all the documents I have submitted bear your signature.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u61	We've all answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u62	So you admit to bringing the electronic auctions. Let's agree. Let's all admit we agree. So we agreed. But let me say one more thing. You guys shouldn't be talking about this bill. To God, you know very well that I always accept the dialogue. On 31 October 2015, what did you say here in Parliament? I said it yesterday. You said, "Don't worry. By the end of 2015, we will also have resolved the issue of recapitalisation and red loans. Today we are in 2020 and this parliamentary majority is trying to deal with the problem that you have not only solved, but you have increased. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Loverdo. You are entitled to three interventions. Will you do the least?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u64	The smallest one, yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u65	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, we will not be watching, throughout the three days of this debate, a controversy about who has made it worse between two parties, who have ruled the country five years and the other has now been ruling for a year and a half. Yesterday I think Mrs. Gennamas and I were very specific about what we said. We thought SYRIZA's move was unsuccessful from the first moment, which really strengthens the Minister. When you want to aid a minister, you propose to him distrust. This is the legality of the parliamentary culture throughout Europe, where there is a parliamentary party. One of the prisoners. Second prisoner. The attitude of the government and the Prime Minister, which does not cover his Minister, is curious. As we know in this Chamber, having lived for years the institutions of confidence and distrust, when opposition is putting forward motions of censure against critical ministers such as the first Minister, the Minister of Finance, in this difficult period but also in general, the Prime Ministers turn these proposals into proposals of confidence in favour of the government or against the government. This is the legality of the parliamentary culture and this practice. Minister, they don't cover you. And I do not understand why it helps you to treat yourself in your speech the Lysia's "Super-Imposed" speech. You are obviously feeling weak in this difficult situation for economic policy reasons and, furthermore, because your Prime Minister is not covering you, even though he applauds you. The whole House is considering your economic policy today and not the government's economic policy. Stavros has accepted a motion of censure, a motion of censure and not a motion of censure in the practice of the Prime Minister. The Members have supported you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u67	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u68	I said it, Mrs. Vulture. I didn't miss it. For the Prime Minister, however, I am speaking. As far as the substance of what we are going to discuss here is concerned, I would like to say that we will definitely once again discuss your legislative initiative with which you make arrangements for four very basic sectors for the economy and for the people. He described them with our negative criticism in a fully substantiated manner by Mr Katrinis. I shall also include in the speech several of the issues, particularly the article which does not give, Mr Minister, a second chance to the financially poor, that is to say, to the economicly dead. You repeat old regulations which have specific application in practice. It is not right to do what you are doing because you are impressing that you are protecting the poor, that you are giving him a second chance and that you are not doing it as you have done so far, for decades now, Greek legislation has made him in the field of the economy, i.e. literally dead.... But since the motion of censure, as it eventually forms, but also you groups in the way you defended, will be critically and thoroughly addressed, without pillaging, with a live memory, Minister. I remember the elections every moment since 2009 and now in the most characteristic and intense way. I remember how you did the election. I remember how many billions your Minister of Education spent at that time to help your Prime Minister. I remember the first days of 2009. I remember everything until today. Our criticism will not be demagogic. Our criticism will not be disastrous. But our criticism, Mr President, will be cruel, but fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u69	Thank you. Lebanese has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. What we actually understood today is that Mr Skourletis tried as the political representative of SYRIZA to identify the government and the New Democracy with the banks and the media. I would like to say something, which Mr Tsakalotos also reiterated, and he has read to us about the recipes for cooking, which was more important in the media than the proposal for distrust. It is simply because we read all the newspapers, to say that I imagine you do not mean that the "Privats' Newspaper" is a propaganda instrument of the New Democracy and its Government. See what it's titled, take it and read it. It is the fifth title in the Editorial Newspaper. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] The only newspaper today, which had the first issue of Mr. Tsipras' huge political movement - I if I were in his place would immediately drive the political advisors who put him to make this move - was "AGEY", "AGEY" of the seven hundred cards, "AGEY", which in the past few weeks destroyed her history, placing Mr.Mitsotakis and Antonis Samaras in front of the bark cross. She said Mrs Ahtsoglou and Mr Tsakalotos today that we lured citizens to throw their money away because SYRIZA was coming. I would like to remind you - and the honourable Member reminded me - that she was your Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs Valvaani, who sent her money abroad because she was exactly SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u71	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u72	Why are you moving your hands? That's the reality. Pack her up and come and tell us again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u73	This is poor as a argument!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u74	All right, it may be, but the cheap arguments too, come and answer the Greek people. I would like to go a little further and say that I think what Mrs Ahtsioglou said about a colleague who brought his statement back yesterday, because we were all here, did this by Mr Varoufakis. And the continuation of the game is that yesterday, while you did not find anything unconstitutional in the bill, you broke up under Mr. Varoufakis' skirt...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u75	Skirt?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u76	Yeah, I mean, you realize... [[Noise in the Chamber]] So you broke up under Mr. Varoufakis' " skirt" policy to find arguments and today you bring him back without dareing to say his name. You are matched by Mr Varoufakis, because together you destroyed the country in 2015. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You came into a process assuming that you're going to break down the bill, which we brought that finally gives solutions for thousands of borrowers and you'd allegedly hurt the government and you'd probably hit the Finance Minister. However, the only thing you will achieve, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, this three-day is to take the fire and listen to about a hundred and sixty, those who prevent a hundred and fifty Members of the New Democracy exactly what you have heard from Mr. Stavoura, and in particular that Mr. Tsipras was the one who abolished the protection of first home, that Mr. Tsipras was the one who voted and widened his signature to become electronic auctions, and Mr. Tsipras was the one who is after your former comrades and Mr. Lafasan and took him to court because he disagreed. Mainly and practically, what did you do? "You've gone for wool and you're going out ragged." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u77	We'll enter the first circle from the speaker list. The first speaker is Mr Rusopoulos from New Democracy. Here you go, Mr. Russopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone were to seek, if they were to look, a title for the move made yesterday by the Qualified Opposition and which we are discussing today, it could be said: from the deadlock of politics to the vain tricks. Because it's in vain your trick, the trick you're trying to do, and it can't in any way make up for the gap in your policy. Temporary impression only satisfys the inspirations of the arts and leaves citizens completely indifferent. This gap in policy that, after his election defeat, the Party of Officers is the distance of SYRIZA from its problems and its weakness, not only to process solutions, but also to perceive even the need to suspect that the problems need solutions. Everyone knows that. Citizens know that too. He was always the SYRIZA fan of problems and enemy of solutions. He tabled a motion of censure against the Minister of Finance Christos Stakoura and found it to do so on the day when the country came out of the markets at the best interest rate on the payment of the Greek state, proving that he was following the right economic policy, even in the difficult times of the pandemic and yielding this policy. He is a fan of the problems and not of the solutions, which is why SYRIZA is focusing on an activism process, which, for those who have studied it, involves the absolute element of self-reporting. An activism of practical and ideological self admiration, with center and horizon. I see a closeness in the horizon of your policy, ladies and gentlemen. That was the real reason that led you yesterday to the motion of censure. Let us now see the occasion, that is, the government's bill of settlement and the second chance. Listen, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, what you are doing. You are actually closing eyes, which keeps blocking for five, ten, fifteen, even twenty years, those small, medium-sized and even larger entrepreneurs who are forced to enter the long and painful bankruptcy process in Greece today. The new law closes these cases in three years. Not in a hurry, but through innovative procedures and, of course, with control, to determine whether bankruptcy was necessary or fraud. It seeks to put an end to the frequentity in our homeland phenomenon of bankrupt companies, with former owners who keep their wealthy assets in full. Their rich personal property, of course. After this check, which is imposed by this law, the trader, the small and medium-sized enterprises, each businessman will be free from the burdens of the past to return to active action, that is to say, to have a real second chance, for the sake of himself, his family and the Greek economy. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you, by denying the law, prefer to pay for the life of anyone who has made a mistake, some wrong business choice, or who from a bad time of the market has been in a difficult position. The law provides for the preventive assistance of both businessmen who have not yet'red' their obligations and individuals at risk of losing their first residence. It provides them with an important aid for a five-year period and gives hope of salvation. You, universally denying the law, let this man drown a life in debt. The law allows natural persons to end once and for all with their debts within a year. You, by denying this law, are giving the message that you prefer the present regime, with a debtor who will owe up to the end of his life, and all he will have to inherit his children is debt. I mean, he's inheriting the next ones. But, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, do you not do that with the hot problem of protecting the first home, for which you are so stirring up? That's right! You have transferred responsibility to the next government. Since 2015 you have been under an obligation to solve the problem. And while for four and a half years you have been talking about a solution you have never brought, you have come to tell us that you would do so at the end of 2019, when of course you would have left power. And only the time-consuming events to run quickly, one understands that you have pursued a policy of shifting responsibilities to the next. In 2015 was the first year you ruled. In 2015 you put an expiry date in Katseli, which had no expiry date, to protect the first residence. In other words, despite the weaknesses of the Katselis Act, which Mr Staikoras gave in his speeches both in committee and in plenary yesterday, providing in the public debate information about his poor results, despite all that, the Katselis Act would not end if you did not put a final end to him. Every once in a while, you said you'd bring in a new framework to replace him. And what did you do? Nothing at all! It's been four years, we arrived in February 2019 and all you brought was a rough protection arrangement for a few more months. Once again, you made a public commitment to the new framework, which was all coming and coming, but never came to the House. Then you said it'solistic', because it would include everything, as our own law does. Now, even for the uniformity of dealing with problems in a holistic law you are criticising us. For four and a half years you have not been charged with putting on a committee of lawmakers and market experts, with your own financial staff, to make your promises. And he comes here yesterday to tell us that this government is supposed to push the problems under the carpet. What did you do? Not under the rug, in time you had locked this hot problem, and all you had to do was leave it free in the air at every opportunity was the same promises and the same hopes. During the discussion of the bill you told us, many times even, that the property of a debtor is being liquidated with the new law. You did not say, of course, that, from now on, a large part of the debt will be given to the debtor in order to have a second chance in his life. But what was the truth with the law of Katseli, but also with your temporary arrangement? The property of a man who arranged his loan was intact or if he was late to pay four-month-olds he was faced with the spectrum...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u79	Please finish, Mr. Comrade. We'll keep the seven-minute exact.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u80	Yes, Mr. President. If there were time, I would have had five minutes from yesterday when I was the fastest rapporteur. I'm not invoking it, just give me a minute or two, please, I'll be done. To take the thread from where the President interrupted me, correctly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, was the property regulated or if he was late to pay four-month instalments, was he facing the range of the eviction and, of course, his property was liquidated? It is, of course, true that you have changed the limit of four months and made it three. Three months late, then eviction and realisation of property. If, then, after this - and I close - there is someone who still wonders why SYRIZA has not brought a solution that has been promised for four and a half years, the answer leads inductively to the beginning of my speech. And it is now self-proof that my introductory remarks that SYRIZA has always been a fan of problems and never solutions. That is why he opposes the correctness of the government's legislative initiative and is looking for a way out of a completely unfounded reproach against the Minister of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen, this reproach will go the orbit of a flare. It always starts with stewards, burys your eyes for a while and goes out ending up at zero, to meet your political dead ends there at zero. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u81	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. If we want no Member to be wronged by speakers of the other days, I would ask that the time be respected. Mr. Ioannis Amanatidis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. I understand the weakness and embarrassment especially of the Minister of Finance, but also of the speakers, in order to defend an abortion law, which abolishes the protection of the first home. Even the vulnerable household after losing his home will be able to rent it for twelve years - if he has been delayed by three rents, he will be evicted - and to rebuild it, he will have to pay the monthly instalments until he has'red' the loan, the 12-year leases and the commercial value of the property at the end of the 12-year period. And the bankrupt citizen, since he has incomes beyond 611 euros, will go to the creditors. That is why the hopeless play-offs, which when they took place, were forced to take them back. And I mean what she heard about Mrs Valavani. And I call on Mr Lebanese to take it back, because Mrs Valavani never made money out, and the relevant post was taken back. Secondly, Mr Stagiras invoked the speech of Lysia "High Imperialos". Only, Mr. Stakoura, you are not the impossible person to get his allowance, and so the House of Five hundred the then Athenian was presented. You are the prosecutor who is currently, with this bill, trying to get the total property and, indeed, not to protect the first residence. What's the situation and why now? When you have a generalised health crisis - the epidemic - you have an economic crisis - the loss of jobs - but also a national crisis, then you cannot take those measures that will substantially ease this crisis, which is a great deal of our society. It was the cherry on the cake. And you are all told - yesterday the report of the Institute of Research of the GFCM came out - the professional bodies. No body in the committee defended the bill, even the President of the Athens Bar Association and the plenary, Mr. Vervessos. Mr Minister, it cannot be imposed on a society greater evil than using the law as a means of snatching. How is the legal snatch defined? Simple enough. You notice if the law takes from some who owns it and gives it to others to whom it does not belong. You see if the law benefits one citizen at the expense of another, doing what the citizen himself could not do without committing a crime. So your bill is called 'legal predation'. And when the snatch becomes a way of life for a group of people in a society over time, they develop a legal system that legalises it and a moral code that rewards it. Minister, that's not my word. I borrowed it. It's from a liberal economist, Frederick Bastia. And I stress the 'liberal', because the policy you are doing is neoliberal. Frederick Bastia had said that the law is only fair when it is limited to protecting the life, freedom and property of the individual. He lived in the 19th century. Here you don't even do what theorists themselves tell you, the protection of the person's property. Ladies and gentlemen, in my view the combination of class division and ideology with political deafness and blindness, but also the arrogance of the current government, has led to today's legislation - what I said at the outset - legal predicament, which leads to the loss of all the debtor's assets and its future. Your policy continues to do, as before 2015, the richest and the poorest. What does it need, in my view? It needs a new policy as we expressed through the programs "We stay upright I and II", as well as the locations of the measures that Alexis Tsipras had in Thessaloniki. To be Greek householders in their homes and not tenants. And a few words on education, Minister, why you defended the work. How can you sleep quiet when you know that in 80% of classes, departments in Thessaloniki, Athens and in the large urban centers there are over twenty students, twenty-five to twenty-seven? And of course we didn't tell you with a magic wand to double the halls. But what can you say? The municipalities, the addresses, the clubs of teachers can design per municipality, per school where it is also the break-up of the departments, as well as also find spaces. The Ministry of Education should have done a simple thing: to guarantee that all teachers, who still have thousands of gaps, will go to all the teachers who will need the extras, as will the assistant staff. You don't. We want to stay safe, but with measures that will help society itself. You guys don't know who you're keeping the ammunition for. I'm afraid you'll be left by warriors. You will keep the ammunition, but you will no longer have warriors. I hope that this will not happen, that the world has already begun and reacted, Minister, and will not at least leave you in this law. Because you have to tell about the law. You're not saying anything about the law. We heard about SYRIZA what he did. I think that next time you won't be able to escape. The flares will really stay flares only when they don't respond to the real problems. Here, as long as the first residence is at risk, you know that we will defend this until the end. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr Amanatidis, for keeping time. Mr Stavros Kalafatis has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr Kegeroglou from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Chief of Officerial Representation appeared in the House yesterday to highlight his deadlocks, and the hypocrisy of his policy, and the contradictions between yesterday and today, and the indifference of his party on the major issues that are pressing our country. He attacked a straitjacket attack on the government who would envy populists and townwives of marginal parties. He claimed that the government was responsible for the coronary problem affecting humanity, for Turkey's aggression in Cyprus and Greece, for the recession in Europe and not just. He finally attacked common sense, forgetting that the economic crisis is not a Greek but a global phenomenon, that the recession in Greece is lower than in other countries in the Eurozone, that in the Koroni war our country is going much better than many others in Europe. And after giving the crisis that hits the planet in the government, he tabled a motion of censure against the Minister of Finance on the pretext of the draft law on the bankruptcy code and the protection of the first residence, a pretext and not a cause. Because other things are the reason, because it hurts and elsewhere it scratches. And because for what SYRIZA's remembered, he's got the nest and accountable for his shop. You said, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, "no house in the hands of a banker" and you wrote in your accounts twenty-five thousand six hundred seventy-two auctions. In order to facilitate their conduct, you have introduced an self - light procedure against those who blocked them and then made them electronic. In power four and a half years, all you've ever managed to make electronic was that. Your Minister was proud to say that electronic auctions are important not only for banks but also for social reasons. You said - and you say - to protect first home, but you signed the Memorandum that abolished it and you abolished it. Do not forget, it is the SYRIZA Government that abolished the first home protection horizontally and brought in a new law that lasted for only six months, which excludes all those who had a red loan after 31 December 2018 who, with a number of criteria, made it impossible to exploit it, a six-monthly law that did not provide a comprehensive and sustainable solution, could not in practice be effective, did not protect bank accounts, wages and pensions. SYRIZA is now coming to pretend that he's being cut, latents, to protect his first residence, the same SYRIZA who abolished its protection. It distorts the predictions of a bill setting out a holistic, businessly fertile and socially sensitive framework for the major issue of the particularly high private debt. He claims that the bill is desirable for the banking system, but forgets that the banks were positive for the law of SYRIZA and are reluctant to today's bill. He claims he cares about the weak, but forgets what he did to the government for four and a half years. They said they'd abolish the HISPHA and get him up. They pledged to lighten the world of burdens and imposed twenty - nine increases in taxes and contributions. They promised to improve incomes and cut allowances and pensions. They talked about a proud negotiation and ended up in the 2015 crime costing 100 billion euros in the country and dulled the small shareholders' losses in the banks. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, tell your leadership that the time of innocence has passed. Today you have a past and the past does not allow you to become socially sensitive. The time has come for irresponsibility, because today our country faces very serious external challenges and faces these challenges no party purpose. Above all, they do not mean micro-participatory, biasing practices. The coroner's here and doesn't discriminate. Turkish aggression threatens the nation and it is not just a government. The Greeks are asking for responsibility, seriousness, confiscation into common objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand the desperation of SYRIZA's leadership. But she heard the wrong counsellors again, because the firework she chose doesn't hide, but she highlights her opposition deadlock, because inner-party problems are not overcome by the targeting of a minister, because crusts do not produce results. Citizens are suspicious. Citizens are tired of the deprivations caused by the coronary. The citizens are cared for in the east, where the challenges are overtaken by each other and at this juncture, the critical for our homeland, Mr Tsipras proves in practice and critics that he cares only for one, to force the dissidents to unite against the government and Minister of Christos Staikoura. So let there be no doubt about it. It will not hurt either the Minister, the government, or the Prime Minister against whom he is tempting. The support of our parliamentary group is a given, consistent and vigilant one. I am sure Mr Tsipras will demonstrate once again that he stands away from the concerns of the Greeks. It will demonstrate the inability to understand the challenges faced by our country, to remove it from the responsibility required by circumstances and to distance it from society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA and the fifty Members required - and it is the only party in the opposition that has them - has put forward a motion of censure for a single Minister. Mr. Tsipras, will you explain why you are excluding Mr. Mitsotakis' reproach and the rest of his government? Can you give them a vote of confidence? Did you choose to give them breath, or do you just go beyond your inner-party? I guess both of them are happening. "Give me to bear you, to climb the mountain." The Movement of Change in its responsible attitude, in the civilized manner, is subjected to the Mitsotakis Government as a whole and is here to reveal its negative actions. Mr. Mitsotakis, 16 months ago the Greek people were disappointed by SYRIZA trusted you with another policy that Greece, the economy and society needed. After the financial derailment in 2004-2009 of the Government of Karamanlis, which caused the crisis and the implementation of three memoranda, after the rule of SYRIZA promised a change of policy, but you follow the swept over the critical issues, such as the refusal of national understanding. We were committed to merit, transparency and evaluation, but opacity and party choices prevailed. You spoke of worthy and excellent, but trustworthy and excellent are chosen, with few exceptions that confirm the rule. They assured that you are ready with a plan and proved to be walking by seeing and doing. You asked for consultation, but even in our proposals of 20 January for the prevention and preparation of the pandemic. Two months later, in front of the dilemma, people were lost or the economy was killed, of course, life is a priority. The follow-up confirms us. You rejected the interim programme proposed by Fofi Gennimata and the Change Movement, in order to keep the economy alive and society upright, and proceeded without a coherent plan for the use of resources in such - such as consumption of many billions, without such a result. The government's account is a fact. Despite the communication storm, it is gradually stripped. Citizens, professionals, workers, farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises, unemployed and weak people experience the negative effects of the inability to deal with the effects of the health crisis, but most importantly they realize that the government is not interested in society as a whole. He chose to support and support the few with inversely proportional allocation of resources. Many with the great needs are available to the fewer, most of them with the small needs. The figures for the economic crisis are appalling and the government's choice of overpopulation in schools, classes, media, as well as indifference to the protection of vulnerable groups in social structures has become a witch hunt in open space. The government even in the eyes of its most faithful supporters seems tired and unable to effectively deal with the second phase of the pandemic and its economic and social consequences. Although the conditions exist today - and we have said so many times - such as support for 84 billion euros from the Recovery Fund and the European Union - instead of indifference, I would remind you of 2009 - with surpluses - 'blooded' from overtaxation, but surpluses, instead of huge deficits at the time - with a framework of understanding, which the government does not use instead of splitting up the Memorandum - anti-immemorandums. Ladies and gentlemen, at this juncture SYRIZA proceeded with a motion of censure to a single Minister and not to the government as a whole. And we ask again and directly: Mr. Tsipras, did you see that Mr. Stavuras is only the government's denial and everything else is going well for you? Is the bankruptcy code, which you refer to, just by Mr Stakouras or the Mitsotakis Government, when it concerns most ministries? Mr. Tsipras invoked the lack of protection of a first home and underestimated our memory, since, firstly, he abolished it by Mr. Stathakis, secondly, SYRIZA refused to vote for PASOK's Law 3869/2010 on the protection of highly indebted households, thirdly, in SYRIZA there were thousands of auctions with the assistance of MATs, with a beating of their former comrades to deal with the protests that had been described as a peculiar offence. And it is so great that SYRIZA's opposition to the bankruptcy of the New Democracy, which in the request for a roll-call vote they tabled yesterday, did not even ask for a roll-call vote - and it is characteristic - but only in certain articles. We are therefore invoking Mr Tsipras, of course, as all citizens do, for the vote of confidence he gives Mr Mitsotakis and his Government, with the exception of Mr Staikoras. We object to Mr Mitsotakis and his Government as a whole for the unexplained refusal to create a strong national line in consultation with the political forces to effectively address the growing Turkish aggression and defend our sovereign rights, for the slow pace of strengthening the deterrent power of the Armed Forces and the absence of a plan for the defence industry, for the delay of the creation of a comprehensive recovery plan for the Greek economy adapted to the new conditions with a broad and solid productive basis, for the total absence of social cohesion and protection policies, for the draft preliminary draft budget, for the establishment of an expensive mechanism with trusted parties instead of the appropriate and value-added, for the lack of an intermediate plan with active labour and entrepreneurship support policies, but also measures to protect the weak. We object to Mr Mitsotakis and his Government as a whole for the conversion of the multi-advertised state to "at last, our own state!", with the absolute partyisation and the entrustment of it, stumbling on the merits, assessment and transparency that he promised in an election, in order to make good legislation a last case, with SYRIZA, a vote on the "driving laundry entropy". We object to Mr Mitsotakis and his Government as a whole for the immoral political work of the health crisis and the promotion of counter-reforms in all areas, for the direct assignments of many millions without tenders, for the delivery of energy to the few and the sudden death of the energy communities, before they even go ahead, for the abandonment of tens of thousands of businesses, professionals and workers, for the growth of unemployment and for the extinction of poverty, for the abandonment of the countryside, the agricultural sector and farmers, for the partnership with the banks and the funds, not for the financing of the economy, but for the purification of small and medium-sized property and for the massive bankruptcy of tens of thousands of citizens, for the abundance of one and a half million pensioners excluded from the limited retroactive and all forms of support for the obstacles to its new generation and the fulfilment of its dreams. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement is not caught either in false dilemmas or in false confrontation between the two. We are dismayed by Mr Mitsotakis and his Government as a whole and we are voting in favour of the motion of censure tabled by a minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement has drawn up its own way to the progress of the place and development focused on man and a modern social agenda. Our vision for Greece seems to be the only one with a political plan, to address the accumulated problems with sustainable development and social justice policies, to pave the way for productive and creative forces, for people of work and business, but especially for young people and young people in our country who are thirsty to create. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u87	I repeat the need to keep the timetable. Before giving the floor to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Voridis, I would like to tell you that the final list of speakers with two hundred and twenty-two registrations has been available for some time now. I repeat, the list Mr Vitsats spoke about immediately after Mr Skourletis's speech was a precursor list, incomplete. This list which has now been published is an overall one, and I repeat, a precursor list, because it was not possible when the second speaker was finishing, the next second had all the written proposals of the groups. Two hundred and twenty two speakers have therefore been signed. I therefore emphasise, I repeat, the need to keep the time. Please, Mr. Voridis, come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, we had an understanding that all parties should be placed. When will the other parties be placed, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u89	Immediately after the speech of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u90	They have spoken three of the New Democracy. The rest of them were much less. I had made a prediction that it would be two hours. Already, we're entering the third hour and still doesn't look light. That's not right. At least the first circle of speakers with the locations...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u91	The first circle of speakers will be completed. I repeat the need to keep the time, because it is not possible to protest about...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u92	They don't play two parties, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u93	We cannot complain about the lack of time at the same time as we violate him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u94	It is not just two parties, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. There is now a very serious question that we need to resolve. We have come to discuss a motion of censure. When I learned that, I was in a meeting at the Ministry. And they come and tell me that SYRIZA filed a motion of distrust. I say, 'You make plans for me, it's not possible!' And I say: “Why? Who? I guess the government's.' 'No', he says, 'at Stakoura'. And I say: 'Why, what did Stariora do?' He says: "He deposited a bill." And because you don't like the bill, did you file a motion of distrust? Suppose all the rest of you like it, because you did not table a motion of censure for all the rest. Then I tried to hear the speeches. I heard the speeches by both Mr Skourletis and Mrs Ahtsioglou, who suggested some kind of proposal, and I expected to hear something about Staikora. As you know, when we personalize the motion of censure, it has a personal character. When we turn face to face, we have to face something. What do you think of Stakoura? Government policy? Yes, sir. But this is a government policy and we have approved it at the Ministerial Council. Why didn't you turn the motion of distrust against the government? Obviously, you're afraid to come and collide, Mr. Tsipras, with Mr. Mitsotakis. I don't see any reason, unless I have to thank you. I thought of that, too, to tell the truth, Mr. Chakaloto. Because since you are impersonating the motion of censure on Mr Stakoura's face, I imagine that I am the one who is excluded from distrust, you praise me as the Minister for Rural Development. So I would like to thank you in this respect, as I think the rest of the government ought to be thanked, because our things are adopted, as long as there is an exception, and as long as the issue is political. But listen, though. There's a nicer one. What did they choose as a matter of proposing distrust? They chose this bill. Why? This bill, it says - that is the main cause - is what does not protect the first residence. So this is the very bad thing Mr Stavros is doing today, that is, he does not protect the first residence. And who decided to say that? When I heard it, I didn't believe in my ears! I'm talking about these images that I saw there with the MATs that hit your partner, Mr. Lafazani, who was in a pacifist courthouse trying to stop auctioning, when did that happen? The abolition of first protection when exactly has it been done? The legalisation of electronic auctions when exactly has it been done? And you chose this to make a motion of distrust? Be well! Be well! Keep it up! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Thank God, these people are counterpopulation! A thousand years! He'll get tired of Mitsotakis ruling! As soon as it hits, Mitsotakis will fall! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So, excuse me, I'm trying to understand and what else did we hear? What else did we hear about this issue? Be careful, he now says that this issue is what will deprive people of their property. Yes, sir. I want to ask you something. You have lawyers, too. I accept that non-lawyers have no knowledge. So much lack of knowledge, if any, now for SYRIZA can be justified. But you also have distinguished colleagues in SYRIZA. So let me ask you something. If I now owe it the way I owe it, when does that stop? Question: I have been subject to an enforcement procedure, Mr Chakaloto? Do I exist or not? Don't I? Are they gonna confiscate my bills now that I owe? Will my accounts be frozen at the bank? Can I move? My assets, the properties will be bound by the acceding executions against me when they've taken away everything I have and I don't? Next question: Does this stop or do I continue to owe? And if a euro comes into my account again, they take it from me. That's what's happening today. What happens to the bankrupt? I've been a lawyer since I was "What happiness, companies are at some point going bankrupt, sacrificing and ending this. For natural persons, this shall never end.’ There is a regulation, which says that at some point in time, after the arrangements and agreements have been made, you are going through with the debt. And you say no? What do you think of the current regime?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u97	I've answered that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u98	So, Mr. Chakaloto, if you owe it, will you get away with it? How are you gonna get away with it exactly? What are you gonna do? What is the protection that any citizen has today? We're talking about the protection, he says, of the first residence -- but we've explained that, this is done by your law -- and in this field you chose to bring the race? What? I've thought there might be something evil about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u99	You're thinking a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u100	Let me tell you why. Because I don't understand how they can do that. More suicidal thing I can't think of. I can only think of one. Mr. Tsipras does so on purpose, to remind Mr. Tsakalotou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u101	That's a little evil.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u102	According to Tsakalotus, the reproach, not the Stakoura. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I can't think of anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u103	That's a SYRIZA way of thinking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u104	Of course, there's the second one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u105	Vote her!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u106	There's another one. I heard. Mrs. Ahchioglu said so. He said: 'We are not listening to society'. We don't listen to society. You listen to society, I guess. From the height of 19.5% they say it at 42.5%! We don't listen to society, but you listen to it! I heard the next argument. He says, "But the motion of censure is not in play anywhere. He plays too low.” It's impressive that he plays low. He shouldn't have played at all, because it's obviously nobody's business! Listen, the proposals of distrust usually have an internal logic. We have lived for it, we have all been concerned, we have exercised this instrument of parliamentary control, which is an extreme instrument of parliamentary control, it is the most serious instrument of parliamentary control that one has, so it has a limited period of time and that is why we are using it under certain circumstances. Who are these? Two. When the Minister individually turns against a minister, something very serious and bad has been done by the Minister, we are going against him to force the entire government to identify itself with the Minister in support of this political deterioration. One solution is that. What's Stavros doing wrong? I didn't hear a word about Mr. Stakoura. I heard you didn't like the bill. What, that he took a legislative initiative? Is that the bad thing Staruras has done? We said that this has been approved by the Ministerial Council, it is a political government, it is what we are doing. So it can't be that. The second is this: we sometimes see social mismatch. So what? It has begun and changed the climate, the social relation is changing, the conditions are changing in society and we are now saying to transfer the climate of society to the proposal of distrust within Parliament where parliamentary correlations have not changed. And sometimes, if there is - as a crisis we've been through many years - and no marginal majority, if you're able to change it, someone with it will be differentiated. What's going on today? Have social relations changed? I hope you don't deceive yourself. You understand that you are a unique example of Officer Anti-Population that the government is facing coronary, fundamental phenomena because of the coronary, Turkey, and the opposition is dropping in public. There's never been such a precedent. You are a unique example. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So I say this: obviously you cannot refer to this change of social correspondence and, of course, do not assume that there is a question in the Chamber. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I was trying again, Mr. Kalafatis, to think about what is actually happening. But then what's going on? Is it an attempt to avoid exactly what is happening, that is, what? That all the time, instead of being governmental, the government is being strengthened and, on the contrary, opposition is weakened. Instead of having - and sometimes this happens - internal issues, we do not get to listen to Contonis, Tsakalotos, Polakis, Jeanette, I don't know who others, Skourletis, Bistis, are killing each other and reading good stories. This is the first time in parliamentary times that the motion of censure is being made to cover the deadlocks of the Anti-Population Officer. There has been no such historical precedent. Be well, continue like this! Every time we get stronger! Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Minister. Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece. If there are no frictions, there will be five Members speaking and then the Minister will speak. It is a proposal I heard in the morning and Mr Tsakalotos said so. There was a good distribution so that all the ministers would not fall on Sunday. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. The JRC voted against the New Democracy Government's face as a whole, as well as voted against those parties, such as SYRIZA, who foresees the crime against the people's housing and property, which the New Democracy Government is currently completing with the Banking Code. The workers, the popular strata that live because of your policy in a fire of problems and deadlocks cannot trust the governments trusted by business groups, now New Democracy, before SYRIZA, more ahead of PASOK - Change Movement or all together. With any differences, your policies meet in your single strategy, the creation of a friendly environment for capitalist development. This also serves this bill with changes in the Banking Code and comes to grab what's left, mobile and immovable property, homes, land, machinery and others, than those found and continue to be, because of the overthrow of the policy of all of you, incapable of paying for their loans, debts to tax and insurance funds, self-employed, farmers and others. What you leave him is the minimum survival income of 600 euros. New Democracy continues from where SYRIZA stopped, which has abolished the protection of the first home, which has done a private offence against the fight to prevent auctions, seizures and now you're grabbing what's left. SYRIZA had downgraded the workers' demands in the bankruptcy proceedings. The new Republic, with the bill in the event of bankruptcy, provides itself for workers' contracts to be terminated, made redundant without compensation. The aim is to deliver business nets of strategic importance to business groups, to facilitate entrepreneurs to implement any designs, as well as bankruptcy without any charge. The same policy is about redundancies, unemployment, the slaughter of wages and pensions, taxation and unbearable carpets. Poverty and impoverishment spread to a large part of the working people's families to recover the capitalist economy. There is no, gentlemen, aspect of the lives of our people living outside the anti-popular attack. Starting with the pandemic, the government makes the choices indicated by business groups and not by the scientific community. The health protocols are adapted to the needs of business groups, with the most critical, that of distance, according to the scientific community, not to be implemented with the demand of business groups, and workers, whether in the workplace, in education or in the public transport sector, are exposed to coronary exposure. The great shortage in ICU, the lack of medical and nursing staff, logistics infrastructure that SYRIZA also maintained, the conversion of clinical and hospitals to receptors only COVID is not the result of erroneous political inertia, but a choice to strengthen the business groups of health. This is why the SIT to private individuals from EUR 800 went to EUR 1,600. Therefore patients with other illnesses who cannot be hospitalised in public hospitals called ‘COVID Hospitals’ become forced customers in private hospitals and clinics. The responsibility of the great dispersion of the virus, the increase in impounded and death lies with the government. Why should the majority of the people at risk even have to trust you? The government's attitude to education is also characteristic. He dealt with students' struggles for health and safety and their parents with terrorism and repression, refusing to take the minimum measures to recruit the necessary cleanliness personnel, teachers, issues SYRIZA treated in the same way, for a reduction in the 15 students in the classroom. Why should the majority of the people trust you, even their lives? The government's attitude to education is also characteristic. He dealt with students' struggles for health and safety, their own and their parents, with terrorism and repression, refusing to take the basic measures to recruit the necessary cleanliness personnel, teachers, issues that SYRIZA treated in the same way, for a reduction in the 15 students in the classroom. Why should parents, students, teachers at risk trust you? In the protection of the unemployed, the attitude of the Government of New Democracy, like SYRIZA, is characteristic. They have earned the nightmare of workers' families, of unemployment, of transferring free money to business groups, on the argument of supporting employment rather than of unemployment. As a result of these conditions of increased unemployment, there are a million thirty thousand registered unemployed, with only 16% being subsidized with a disgrace and for a short time and a small number of long-term unemployed making use of employment programmes, with a disgrace that the New Democracy Government has reached 200 euros a month. Yes, Mr Stakoura, 200 euros per month, you are giving the programmes to the long-term unemployed who work for employers. Workers are experiencing all the overthrows of capital and all of you have realised, with work when and as much as the employer needs and with wages as he wants. Unpaid work is a characteristic of what we say. The wages of workers and pensions have been reduced by up to 50%. In the eighth hour, steady work with built-in rights, collective agreements, social security, collective freedoms and rights have been overturned by all of you. The laws, which have also taken the names of ministers, such as the Law of Loverdus, Koutrumani, Brutsi, Ahtsoglou, Katragalou, again Brutsis, have implemented requirements of BSE and other employers' organizations to eliminate all that is preventing capitalist growth and profitability. You've all examined the social security issue. One was completing the other by abolishing any social character. Your goal of converting insurance from social to individual responsibility. Increased age limits and reductions in pensions are the task of all of you. The Pinochet model, which wants capital, is being implemented - step by step by step by all of you. The New Democracy is preparing to complete the crime on the basis of the Pissaridis proposal for full privatisation of subsidiary insurance and not just. All of this was accompanied by the reduction of any trade union freedoms and rights granted under other conditions and other association of powers. The New Democracy, which boasts that it is a genuine representative of capital, continues from where SYRIZA stopped to intervene in the workers' organizations, to a lively functioning of the trade unions. SYRIZA, after continuing to dismantle the negotiation of the lowest wage, abolishing the collective agreements of the New Democracy, adopted measures that effectively abolish the right to strike, by electronic vote, with banning majorities, so that the trade unions' decisions can be legitimate. If so far we have had 90% illegal strikes by the courts, they are actually being abolished in this context. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The New Democracy is now preparing the new trade union law, which, according to the leaks made by trade union action, will in fact be a peculiar offence and will be prosecuted. The history of the class movement teaches that no one can stop the class struggle. Poverty and impoverishment are the work of all of you, such as the unblemished wealth that is concentrated in a handful of capitalists.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u109	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u110	In this barbarism, in this rotten system of exploitation, which can only be of hunger, pain and blood from the involvement in imperialist planning and wars, workers and people need to respond with harsh mass struggles to claim their own needs, to respond with strong alliance and struggle for the rupture and overthrow of this form of organization, capitalism, to build the new society of prosperity for all, socialism. He's got the power. She has to trust and turn the back on all those who want to grind him into a machine that produces wealth, mower, poor, hungry, and depraved. With confidence to co-operate with the JRC to build the great social alliance for labour power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Please, let us keep up with the time, because colleagues will be wronged tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. Don't have to shorten the time. Mr Charalambos Papadimitriou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. To relax a little, I don't really know - if anyone knows, to tell me, since he's not here - if the President of SYRIZA likes the work of the great Polish director. It is true that Mr. Tsipras was only three years old when Andrey Vinda sang us with "Man of Marble". Maybe he never saw it. Besides, it was kind of forbidden for the cannibals. Some of us also understood from this Step, after all, that something is wrong with the last empire of the existent - way of saying - socialism. But perhaps the former Prime Minister, the sequel, the "Man of Iron". Maybe they talked to him about this movie when he visited the Vatican. It was a cry of agony for liberation from the swollen propaganda, false promises, state-runism. It was 1981 and it was the complete denial of the young dreams of Mr. Tsipras. I say this because I am sure that, if we lived today, Vida would complete the trilogy with a tragic comedy by giving Mr. Tsipras the leading role: "Man for a Bowl". I imagine that in Koumoundouros, when a comrade fell, "to make them reproach, to hammer the parliamentary process, to drag Mitsotakis", there would be enthusiasm. When the game with your mess has come out without great punishment so many times, then you get used to it: Bahalo at the school of Panormos, TV star. Bowl in the coalition, president of the coalition. Bahalo in 2008 on the streets of Athens, a factor in the rebellion against power. The mess in the square with the atrocious of all kinds, color and ideas finally convinced the President of SYRIZA that populism is the sure way to power. I do not hide from you that I am among those who admire how well Mr. Tsipras took advantage of the mess that unfortunately has always been in the operation of the Greek state. Although I don't think Mr. Tsipras has ever seriously exercised the art of engineering, he's certainly done it as a chief engineer of hailing. And he found - and here's my surprise - the man who loves class so much, who pisses us sometimes, Christos Stakoura, to come here and make him reproach. You don't want, gentlemen, to operate under rules and the money mechanisms don't get messed up? Do you not want the citizen to know what he has to do to get out of the mess that the financial hardship once brings him? You are attacking the Treasury Minister because you are well aware that what he has brought to Parliament is correct, studied and the worst for you, they will get the world out of the debt trap, that is, the biggest mess that the crisis has created. It is true that you have put your hand in order to create this debt trap. Remember that you won votes, as your partner has indicated and guided you by promising to delete debts indiscriminately to everyone. I would like to know once: have you put Varoufakis in the most critical post at that moment, because everyone who knew Varoufakis had told Mr Tsipras or knew his views that he would make a mess of the banks? Did Mr. Varoufakis convince you that, to blow the system, you had to start with the payment systems? Did you get the idea of a portion of the interests involved that, if Greece were to flee and go to the drachma, would those who, by system, did not pay their gross loans? But when you saw who was holding the real money, especially what makes you win governments, the lenders are, you've changed. I congratulate you again on that attitude. I also made it public in May 2016. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, Adonis Georgiades had wondered and somehow worried because at that time I had congratulated him. You had closed the first evaluation of the memorandum, Mr. Tsakalotos, and once again we avoided the ham that would have been provoked, a ham that I assume will have a lot to reveal when Euklidis Tsalatos writes his own writing: "How was Greece inspired." So you've been around since, and you had to catch up with the objective of overtaxation. And you started divesting real estate and other civil and business assets. It's not just banks. Let's not forget the taxi. You did twenty-five thousand six hundred seventy two auctions. You've learned him from the outside, I suppose, now the number, so often we tell you. It was the only public procedure you managed to make it electronic. I read: “I would like to ask Alexis Tsipras: When did he remember the protection of the first home from the auctions? Now that he's been found in the Opposition? Why, as a government, were pacifist offices in the first place every Wednesday and after the notary with auctioning of houses of poor households? Why, as a government, did Alexis send without mercy, the MATs and the sinful department of state protection and civilization smuggling ruthlessly and illegally record your former comrades who were fighting to save first homes? I'm not talking about it. Panagiotis Lafazanis, Minister at the first government of Tsipras, says it, one of the special people, who supported Mr. Tsipras, who taught him his art of revolution. Just before the early 2019 elections a secret that only the former Prime Minister could know again to get money again to pay benefits in order to keep the deceived comrades - forgive me, voters - decided to abolish the first house from the auctions. We learned it mainly from the Eurogroup of April 2019, from the lips of the President of Eurogroup, Mr. Marios Stendos, who said: "The Greek government has pledged that the motto that will succeed the Katseli law will be temporary and will end at the end of the year. Mr Tsipras must have brought a new legislation, a new framework for protecting all those who are in a state of need." I would remind you, of course, that this has not been done because there is the worship of the bazaar, because otherwise the borrowers are left empty. Fortunately, Staruras has received an extension, four plus three, and he brings a comprehensive solution today. That's what made SYRIZA mad at him. One can understand it from the fact that you have immediately returned, ladies and gentlemen, to your favourite chips. "The world will lose its homes," you say. He won't miss it. You've got him so spoonful? He believed you once and for all, but now he's asking to know what his new choices are and when someone explains it to him, he's very much interested in it. You're trying to scare him, keep him in a hostage, and that's why you don't want to finish with the red loans. You don't want those who make up informational and serviceable loans. You don't want the situation to settle. I get it. You don't like housewives. He remembered Mr. Tsipras tricks. When you have nothing to say about the substance, put a point of order. And we gather here to speak generally and vaguely - unfortunately - sometimes between you and each other, to take off your repulsives - it looks like there's a lot in Kumundur right now - to listen to yourself and to enthusiasm. But the people, ladies and gentlemen, at least not our own voters who want solutions, solutions and solutions, are not disgraceful. I am sure your voters want the same and it would be good for democracy to represent 32% in Parliament and not to speak the 4% language. You were handed over a situation that was settled with the banks capitalised and viable, with the shares taken by the state from the banks worth about what the taxpayer had put in. You lost everything, playing an ideological casino. Where did the 33 billion euros really go that were worth the bank shares then? How did it become just 750 million euros in a few weeks? And how much easier the settings of thousands of loans would have been, if you hadn't thrown out the banks, with your imaginable speculative actions, as if we hadn't reached the big crisis. Now see how the borrowers are rushing to regulate - more than two hundred and fifty thousand cases - and to close the issue. But finally, let us look at today's debate positively. Every obstacle to good. You gave us a chance to talk about it. And in that sense it is not bad at all, but, Minister, let us do any work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Papadimitriou. Mr. Paul Paulakis has the floor from SYRIZA and then Mr. Hetas will be prepared from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Has Mr. Stavros gone? That's too bad. I am succeeding in the Stepma of the House by a colleague, a former journalist of SKAI, who considers the effort we have made for four years to put up a country bankrupt. He did not consider terrorism to be a mess, beatings, murders of the Golden Dawn at all. He was looking for the severe Golden Dawn that he would make with Samaras a government. It doesn't only matter what you say, but who are you to say it. What you were saying in the past, and what you were washing away in the past. Mr. Stavura and Mr. Besiropoulos, since your leader is not here, do you think we've been drinking the water of forgetting? Do you think that because the "fashioned" media are trying to make you a nice picture, doesn't people understand what's going on or does they don't know what's coming from? Was Mr. Stavros celebrating his speech about what exactly? Tell me about it. You borrowed 16 billion euros in a year at a low interest rate. Oh, no, no, Really? Why don't you say that you have reached the GDP debt of over 186% - 187%? GDP fell on the one hand, the loan went up on the other. Why don't you say that at the moment you're lending because we, the SYRIZA government, arranged the debt and left a 37 billion-dollar financial pillow? How do you achieve the low interest rate? Because you're handsome or because you're meracles? Or because right now with the pandemic abrupts around the planet, are the central banks cutting off a blanket of money? We cover bonds, they buy and they put money and liquidity on the market. Move here to us for handing over EUR 300 million of real money to the fund. You told the depositors "take the deposits from the banks". We gave you for the first time in Greek history 37 billion euros pillow. Who are you talking to? Who are you addressing? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Secondly, let's see what we said and what you said. What Mr Tsakalotos said, Mrs Ahtsoglou in relation to the protection of the first residence. You can call it the report. As Mr Papadimitriou and Mr Bogdanou are not saying this, it does not mean that this is the case. What did SYRIZA promise to do? To bring in a holistic framework for bankruptcy, debt arrangements, insolvency. Integrate into one of the different frameworks that were in place at the time, the extrajudicial to businesses, the hundred and twenty instalments, the debt arrangements, the Law 4605/2019 concerning the regulation of loans and a business mortgage on the first place. Legislation that was scattered, we committed ourselves to making one. That's what we committed to. Not to abolish the protection of first residence. You committed yourself to this. You, Mr. Besyropoulou. And you come out here and you have the nerve and you say that SYRIZA has abolished it. In the twenty-five thousand six hundred seventy two auctions of the SYRIZA government, how many were first home? Tell us about it. If you'd found one, you'd have made it a flag. In the fifteen thousand now yours, how many are there? In the fourteen months, you've made fifteen thousand auctions. In four and a half years, they became the ones you say but not the first home. So, what have you made a commitment to do? November 2019, memorial report, report - report we call it in Sfakia - says the following: In New Democracy "The authorities will extend the existing framework", the law of SYRIZA, "for four months and will cease it at the end of April 2020. The new framework will ensure the free enforcement against all collateral provided for the provision of loans, including first residence.’ That's what the report says. Have you read it or don't you read it like Mr. Chrysochide, who left the Pope and the Bunny? Have you read it? A few months later, February 2020, another report, another reference to memorial supervision. ‘The Greek authorities repeat’ – the Greek authorities are you, the Government of the New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis – ‘re-establish their commitment that the protection of the first residence will expire in April 2020’. Here's who you're committing. What are you working on here and Stairs coming out and moving and saying that "we've done away with it"? You have given no paper arguments and you all repeat the same shit! One month after the 2019 elections, when you took over the government, I said in a speech here in Parliament three things, that you took the government to do the following three things: Firstly, to pass subsidiary insurance on to individuals, the desire to call neoliberals from the 1980s, EUR 75 billion job for the next twenty years. You have been prevented by the coronary and the rest and you have been delayed, by Pissaridis, of course, in his report. Secondly, sell what's left of silver in the public sector by announcing and forging provisions that SYRIZA had passed to IPTO, HYDAP, ports, etc., which you now take to the hammer - and I learned something, Kavala wants Laurentiadis, another photomodel! - and make a huge redistribution from the middle layers to the richest 5% of our society, because that's what you represent, nothing more. The richest 5% you represent. And the third job you're going to do is eat the 37 billion that we left you with five, ten thousand best friends with the direct assignments. Fifteen months later this is the plan you implement up to the last antenna. You are not telling me, ladies and gentlemen, that you are or are not in the same direction as having made two TEMPUS programmes to assist small and medium-sized enterprises from the banks and that only the two out of ten have been taken. You now draw up a programme for assisting small and medium-sized enterprises through the regions, which, under the conditions laid down, will receive 2.5% of the tourism business. All the chambers are out and they're shouting about this story. Thirdly, aren't you the ones who brought the law out of plan construction, which you're actually doing? To householders - Papadimitriou - who had bought for their children, for themselves a plot of four acres in various areas of Greece to build or to have it for their children tomorrow morning, you forbid them from doing so. You underestimate the value of their property, they will buy it some real estate funds, where you allow them to build with two and a half times a factor of 0.2% to 0.5% if they get one and collect these properties.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u115	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u116	I'll be done. That's the support of the middle class that you've been in her name. You do not implement support, no middle-class support. And with the bankruptcy, you're completing a violent redistribution of property to a few and mighty. That's what you're doing. And you thought that because you had gone down to the media your "towels" that have received more than EUR 110 million advertising expenditure that they shouldn't have taken, you think it would have been that way or that society won't get it or that they won't react.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u117	Please finish, Mr. Polakis, you've reached nine and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u118	So this motion of censure has taken you out. What to do, of course, will support Stavura, but let's know exactly what we're talking about. You don't support any middle layers, you destroy it, those who supported you, and that's why the mountain that comes is too big. Unfortunately, I have spent the time because this is the 'black Bible' of direct assignments and the splitting up of public money, which you have done in fifteen months as government. The first one starts with Mr. Voridis, who came before. Let me say a word about him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u119	Please, finish it. You've been talking ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u120	I'm done. The trigger for direct awards was given by Mr. Voridis to his Ministry, who provided gloves with 9,5 euros the track when they did 0.80! Secondly, I should like to respond to this "bottle" which flew for me and Chakaloto, the following: Me and Euclid are united by the common effort for a society without exploitation. You, from the extreme right to the center right, that Mitsotakis wants to collect, all that unites you is the sum of money that we left to you. That's our difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u121	I'll say it for the last time. It is a question of respect for the Members who follow to keep the time. They won't be able to talk. It's not right to turn off the microphone. We're colleagues. I think we need understanding. Mr. Hetas has the floor from the Greek Solution and then Mr. Vlachos is prepared from the New Democracy. Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, thank you. We have all become wiser than Mr Voridis's speech, and we are badly discussing it. He convinced us all. Good! What did Mr. Vorides say? That the time has finally come for the private to get rid of everything: "Christmas? I'm bankrupt. We'll get you the house and what you don't have and what you're not fine." Greek citizens will feel light, Mr. Voridis. Incredible things! They'll feel a slightness. Put your hand in the pockets of the world and take the keys from their homes. That's what you're doing. Mr. Polakis, this "cushion" that you left and we have nightmares up there - because nightmares are seen by the Greeks at the "cushion" - from the 35 billion to the 15.7 billion is from the third memorandum, by the ESM. I'm sorry. That's unnecessarily what it was. Don't throw a firework, a number, 35 billion "cushion" and tall people. It is shameful within the Greek Parliament that the arguments of the parties of the Government and the Civilian Representation should be the fight for auctions: "Fourteen thousand auctions, both you and us in fourteen months, so many of us." Auctions, lost houses of Greeks and Greeks, which you, you and you, PASOK, have been bankrupt over the years. You bankrupt the Greeks and you now take their homes. That's what you're doing. Because this bill - from the very beginning we have said it - is infamous, it is a robbery, it is unacceptable. We said so from the committees. In plenary we said so. Today we say so. And as long as our voice comes out, we'll call it. As ten Members we used a right: an application for unconstitutionality! Yeah, because it's unconstitutional. A bill that takes the homes of the world and poorens the middle class is unconstitutional. You won't talk about the Constitution, which has been "littled" and you use it every time and it suits you. First of all, we tabled an application for unconstitutionality yesterday - and everyone was silent - for seven - eight articles in the Constitution. One or two put the Mera25 on. SYRIZA dragged behind. It's not a shame. After you agreed with us, why don't you come with us? It's not a shame. If it's unconstitutional, you say it too. Why drag behind there and be ashamed to say you're with us? This is for the good of the Greeks. It's not a small-party game. And since it's unconstitutional, why didn't you do it, who then said it was. In other words, you agree, but you do not agree. And you're doing half a job. The gentleman who was sitting there, the Minister of Finance, is working alone, that he's coming to his mind? Does the Prime Minister, the Government, not have a plan? Is Starios doing what comes to his head? Do all the work and submit a motion of censure against the government. What are you doing to him Stakora? So, what did Staruras do? And as much has been said about the time, the New Democracy says: "Inadmissibility that SYRIZA makes this move while Greece is being pushed, there are economic problems, krone, is 'Ante portas', the Turks. Yes, sir. But it's the reaction to your action. Why are you bringing this infamous bill and the rest of the opposition parties react? We owe it to the people who voted for us and have put their hopes on us. For God's sake! What don't you understand? And you're ruining the world. Let's go to SYRIZA for a while. They're ruining the world. Who? Your hands are the same stuffed with beams that have been demolished, like those of them here, by the houses of the demolished people have lost. You did twenty-seven thousand auctions. The radio I was working on is in Chimishi's extension. That's a nice place. On the sixth floor. On the third floor there are two notarial offices. Every Wednesday we couldn't go to work. MATs, police, group, chaos and above, they took the world's houses. And now you're coming to say what? I mean, it's outrageous! Do you think your confrontation is limited in here? People see us and they turn their backs. He hates us with what you're doing in here. Listen, auction fight, who made most and fewer auctions! Sure. ELSTAT says it. The scientific team of the Greek Solution does not say it, nor does Kyriakos Velopoulos. ELSTAT says it. 2018 has been an 185% increase compared to 2017 in the auctions. On SYRIZA. Increasing 54.7% in confiscations. Most of the world’s houses of what came out on the hammer were the first residence. You're as guilty as three! All three of you are as guilty as you are! And now he's coming here for a new bill from Monday - to welcome us - speeding up procedures for thirty-seven thousand trials in Katseli in thirteen days. Hurry up and get the houses of the world! Thirty-seven thousand trials in thirteen days! I'll testify for the Minutes when I finish my speech. Mr Stavoura, we do not say 'no' to everything. You came here today and told us what you've done in a year and a half. The Greek Solution has also said to some "yes". We weren't expecting you to give us an account today. Apologise for the bill and not give an account of your works. Apologise to the Greek people, or you will answer. You'll account for and hide you no communication game and no media bury. Yes, Mr New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, the media control them and the game is played in disequitable terms. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The alarms will ring when we get out! And there's the ERR and its president. Where's the PSE's offer? Where is this independent authority, which will come here and answer? Next month this independent authority will come and answer here! He doesn't have any employees to do his job, he gets thousands of euros every month, though. The R.R.A.'s awkwards. Because you either do your job and get paid or if you don't do it, you quit, sir. If you can't do your job, you quit. But time to chase the Greek Solution and the Lord Velopoulos you find. That you're dealing with regional channels all day to put 735 grand fines. Where? On the regional channels! It's a disgrace to what you're doing! Really embarrassing! And they're all coming here, and they're really gonna apologize. Because we want an ERR that does a real job and isn't on an orderly service. So have you people and time to see what is going on, Mr President of the PSE, that a party of parliament has not set foot on any channel and there is no pluralism? Nor Mera25, little KKE, no Greek Solution, less SYRIZA. Only New Democracy! Where are you, Mr. President of the PSE? Are you fined because the President of Greece commented that he writes "Macedonia" on the Skopje shirt? Yes, it was for us, it is and it will be Skopje! If you like it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u123	Mr Georgios Vlachos has the floor from the New Democracy. The Minister for Finance will then receive the floor, Mr. Besiropoulos. Here you go, Mr Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the tabling and then during the debate of the specific bill of the Ministry of Finance, the Qualifying Opposition is constantly trying to raise procedural obstacles to avoid taking a stand on the substance of the bill. He tries in every way to keep the confrontation at a level of cognition, in the hope that the citizens are forgetting quickly and that no one remembers that SYRIZA has managed power and that he has given his government's stigma. A climax of this tactic is the submission of a motion of censure to the person of the Minister of Finance. When did this happen? It was after several hours of meeting, during which no speaker raised such a matter. You see, the privilege of surprise, impressions about Mr. Tsipras had to be safeguarded. And indeed, it was just before the evening news releases to earn as much impression as possible. But can the lack of a well-documented opposition and politician many times hide, ladies and gentlemen, I say, for a long time? Can a policy be pursued in the light of internal problems, internal-party balances, with the attempt to create a climate of distraction, in order to achieve a temporary settlement of its Members? Can the Qualified Opposition pursue politics with the approach 'I do not recognize, I do not see, so there is no problem', leaving thousands of our fellow citizens in hostage? A motion of censure in fact raises the tone of confrontation, generalizes the debate. At other times this could be characterised as even normal. Today, however, when the country faces major external challenges, such as Turkey's arbitrary and illegal movements and the new wave of the coronary, it is an act of irresponsible irresponsibility. You know well and you might want to do so - Mr Tsakalotos missed something earlier - that the government was able to turn the proposal of distrust to the Minister into a vote of confidence in the government. But responsibleness does not allow for this, although - you have no doubt - that would benefit us in the light of party interest. So you chose the wrong way and the wrong time to bring the Prime Minister to the House, as Mr Tsipras said yesterday. There are other, more simple ways, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Just ask. This wrong move, however, enables us to talk about the bill more and about aspects that might have gone unnoticed, even if you are delaying the vote, Mr Secretary, and on the arrangements for suspending the appeals of the public to the detriment of owners and my region, where you have brought it, and I thank you for that. Ladies and gentlemen, "The government will fall if you do not vote on the auctions for the auctions," said SYRIZA MPs, Mr Chakalotos. "As long as there is SYRIZA, auctions will not take place in Greece unless they do the auctions in a foreign country," said Mr. Tsipras. How much value did these declarations have, this approach? Quite simply - it was heard earlier by the Minister, I will repeat it - we had twenty-five thousand sixty-two auctions in 2017, introducing electronic auctions, self-sufficient to those who prevent auctions. I must remind you again - even if some of these Steps do not understand - that protection in a horizontal way does not exist in the country since February 2019 by a SYRIZA government. With the signature of the SYRIZA government, there is therefore no effective protection of the first residence. That's why it's too late for tears, but also for lionisms. And don't put your responsibilities on Mr. Stakoura. Protection of the first residence - I must remind you - started for the first time in 2008 by the Karamanlis government and regulated the protection of citizens' homes in front of the crisis that was coming and which some people said is a crisis in the minds of the rulers. The laws followed by the other governments despite minor differences all had one thing in common. What was that? To protect the first residence, the debtor was called upon to pay for the rescue. If there is another way, why didn't you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? Didn't you get here? But you have legislated in the same spirit as previous governments, forgetting about earthquakes and about 'no house in the hands of a banker'. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the purpose of this bill? It's avoiding bankruptcy. And this is based on two axes, prevention by early warning and dealing with the out-of-court settlement mechanism. This bill deals with a problem for businesses and natural persons before it comes to a real dead end. It strengthens the world of work and to a maximum extent protects the country's productive tissue. In that regard, it is clear from the case-law of the Court of Justice that, in the absence of a provision of Community law, it is for the national court to determine whether or not it is for the national court to determine whether a provision of Community law is compatible with Community law. The businessman will have the opportunity to return to business, to have a second chance, to try and succeed. He is given the opportunity to make a reset from a new base without the weights of the past. Since a debtor regulates all debts with up to 240 instalments, it saves the entire property. But if a debtor fails to repay debts even by twenty years of regulation, then obviously this debtor has already been bankrupt. That's the reality. In this case, there is provision for discharge of all debts so that they receive a second chance. So the law seeks to enable the debtor to find a real and sustainable solution for his debts, so that they do not be transferred to the future, in other words to the next generations, which so far have been resorting to? To not accept a legacy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. That is why we support this bill. That's why we support Christos Stakoura. That is why we reject your proposal by SYRIZA colleagues, a proposal without content that reminds us of the substance of a bodyless shirt, which is always empty regardless of colour. You are now left to choose the color. And if you already want to celebrate, that's your right. So much the worse for you! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr. Vlavo. The reason is the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Vessiropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate was caused by the need for the Chief of Officership to resolve his inner-party issues. Their existential crisis transfers it to parliamentary procedures and, indeed, an issue for which not only are they, but they cannot appear as honourers. I am thinking of the management of red loans, but also of issues relating both to the economy and to the banking system. But the debate on these issues will take place. In depth and with substantiated evidence. Clearly, the motion of censure on the face of the Minister of Finance, Mr Stakoura, on the occasion of the draft law on debt arrangements and the framework of the second opportunity is unequivocally unequivocal. The aim - as I have said - of Mr Tsipras is to tackle his multiple internal problems, but also the biggest problem facing the political opposition party, which is the lack of a political account, credibility and proposals. The return of SYRIZA to the rhetoric of 2014 is not a step forward but backwards. But most of all, it's a real escape. Can SYRIZA today repeat the slogan “No house in the hands of a banker” without causing laughter and scoring comments? When SYRIZA as a government did over 25,000 auctions. You were the government of taxes, seizures and auctions. In fact, Mr. Tsakalotos, on November 30, 2017, had significantly described electronic auctions for social and development reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u127	And what did I say next?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u128	And when the government of SYRIZA brought an amendment to prosecute those who prevented auctioning, like your former partner Mr. Lafazanis, Mr. Tsakalotos what he did? He asked the SYRIZA MPs, who reacted, to vote for it because otherwise the government would fall. So when you have ruled this way you can no longer go back to the 2010-2014 period and say what you were saying at the time. Who can the Qualified Opposition today convince that he had established protection of the first home? Is the intelligence so challenging, but above all the memory of the Greek citizens, could it be so challenging? What is the truth and the reality, ladies and gentlemen? Protection of first residence began with Law 3869/2010. The government of SYRIZA - ANEL was the one in the proud negotiation of introductorys which, at the end of 2015, agreed to terminate the protection of the first residence with L.4346/2015. It was when the SYRIZA - ANEL government voted to sell red housing and business loans to funds. The funds which you yourself characterize as'market boys'. As of February 2019, there was no protection of first residence. Under the State of panic, you actually brought a law, Law No.4605/2019, which provided limited protection for first home and concerned a certain number of borrowers with strict criteria of income and property, but also with many problematic provisions. The small involvement and willingness of borrowers to join the law and to benefit from protection proves the failure of the law. In fact, the four and a half years that SYRIZA ruled did nothing for the management of red loans. It is characteristic that the first year of SYRIZA - ANEL governance we had an increase in red loans, according to the assumption of the then Minister, Mr Stathakis, of 43%. Apart from the other problems, which have worked cumulatively and have exacerbated the deadlock, I am referring to capital controls, the depreciation and the expropriation of the banking system. Why did you receive a banking system worth EUR 34 billion and valued at EUR 800 million by means of the recapitalisation in which you yourself led. What the SYRIZA government did when signing what they put in front of her was to transfer the big and explosive private debt problem to the future. The New Democracy Government has taken responsibility for dealing effectively with the private debt problem for the first time. If you've caused this conversation you'll get answers with substantiated evidence. Private debt moves to heights unthinkable. The SYRIZA government received debts of legal and natural persons to the public of EUR 71 billion and increased them to EUR 104 billion. In the events of the SYRIZA - ANEL government, all over four million debtors are involved at the expense of a million two hundred thousand seizures. The new framework of regulations of twenty-dollars, but also the policy of reducing taxes, followed by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has led to the upsurge of the upsurge in public debts when in your period of government it increased by one billion euros a month. In addition to the new regulation framework with the hundred and twenty instalments and the improvement of the framework for the new fixed tax debt arrangement, the increase in the number of instalments from twelve to twenty-four, which can reach even forty-eight instalments. The policy of reducing taxes has also contributed towards increasing the public's debts. In particular, it has been reduced by 22% in mid-term terms by ENPY. The tax rate for natural persons was reduced from 22% to 9% for incomes up to EUR 10,000. The tax rate for enterprises was reduced from 28% to 24%. The dividend tax was reduced from 10% to 5%. The first stage tax rate for start-ups was reduced by 50% for the first three years. All SMEs with a disability rate greater than 80% were exempted from the solidarity levy. These are only some of the permanent, now, tax reductions. And others will follow, since at the heart of our policy is the reduction of taxes, unlike your own government that had chosen overtax. Even within the pandemic, however, the government has made tax reductions of a temporary nature and a targeting nature. In particular, it has been reduced - and in some cases zeroed - the advance payment of tax to enterprises. The solidarity levy for private sector employees, free professionals, farmers and those who receive income from real estate was suspended. VAT was reduced from 24% to 13% in transport, non-alcoholic drinks, cinema tickets, theatre performances and concerts and the tourist package up to 30 April 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA Government received the debts to the insurance funds of EUR 13.7 billion and launched them at EUR 35.4 billion in early 2019 due to an increase in insurance contributions. The one hundred and twenty-dollar regulation, but also the first wave of reductions in insurance contributions, has cut off the rate of debt out of the insurance funds. It also contributed to measures such as: The insurance contributions of workers and employers to seasonal enterprises. The three percentage points reduction in private insurance contributions. Of course, it is also a serious question of red loans, which are more than EUR 92 billion. Some of them represent first - house housing loans. The New Democracy Government has faced a problem that the previous government hid under the carpet and transferred it to the future. And he dealt with it in terms of rationalization, with measurable results and, above all, with social sensitivity. The incomplete and falsified institutional framework for protecting the first residence voted by the SYRIZA - ANEL government and in which the borrowers themselves turned their backs was replaced by the "GEYRA" programme, a program that already produces measurable results. Within the first fifty eight days, thirty-one thousand and fifty-five applications were submitted, i.e. eighteen times more than those submitted under the previous institutional framework and at much less time. Citizens' responses render unavoidable and unpleasant comparisons for the Officerial Response Party. With the Law on debt arrangements and the provision of a second chance to households and businesses, we are creating a single and flexible framework of rules. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We are creating an effective framework for protecting the first home by creating an out-of-court settlement mechanism whereby citizens can regulate their debts to banks and public authorities in two hundred forty instalments. The previous government had limited the framework to twenty doses. By doubling the number of instalments, the dose to be paid by the borrower is reduced to half. At the same time, there is provision for subsidising first home loans to vulnerable households and the economically weak for five years. Also, in the agreement with banks and loan managers, the suspension of first home auctions for all vulnerable households by the end of the year is introduced until the new institutional framework is in place. Ladies and gentlemen, the measurements of public opinion, which SYRIZA even stopped questioning following the resounding results of the European elections and the national elections, reflect the dominant trends in Greek society. Pluralism is no longer a pretext, it has been rejected by a large majority of the citizens. Society supports the government, supports the Prime Minister, supports the Lord Mitsotakis. The reform work, the front of the problems that come from the past, cannot be interrupted. One would expect greater responsibility from Acoustic Opposition, especially at this time when we face the consequences of pandemic on health, economic and social levels. Especially at this juncture manifested by Turkish aggression. The government's moving forward. Along with the citizens and society.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u129	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u130	We are voting against the motion of censure tabled by SYRIZA. SYRIZA, however, has already been rejected and voted against by the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Minister. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, the fact that it took four hours in this Parliament to place Mera25 for the first time in this debate is a characteristic of democracy in this Parliament. However, I am obliged to begin with a response to the comments made by the President of Parliament and the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy concerning a skirt and a skirt by Mr Varoufakis. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] You obviously want to offend us. The only insult you can make us is to keep delaying justice at Zack/Zackie Kostopoulos. The fact that homophobic and unimportant comments were eroded by the President of Parliament in any country would be a reason for resignation. And he did well right after he said it and left the Chamber. It is not only good to delete from the Minutes. It is right that they should be deleted from thought, practice and public speech. I'm coming to our point. After we daily destroying our home, our common home, this planet, the earth, because we have put the profit above everything, since citizens are losing their homes, their land, their livelihood in Karditsa, Matty, and so many other places, this government does not want to wait for climate change, it has decided to take people's homes now. This is the essence of the bill that has the funny and ironic title: 'Second chance'. On the one hand, we have a government that wants to hide its proposals, wants to go as painlessly as possible, because this bankruptcy bill is something worse than previous memos. It recommends not only a bankruptcy, but a multiplier draft of the new memorandum, but much worse than the previous ones. The fact that he wants to hide it appears from the fact that the Prime Minister did not dare enter this Chamber during his debate. He wanted to lower it. In the channels controlled by the government, this was not the case, but it always remained in the "priced letters" in procedural descriptions. Those journalists wanted to write articles were cut off from the pensions. That's the reality. So, on the one hand, we have the government that is trying to get it through to the mosquito, because that is the reality. On the other hand, we have the Civic Opposition, which may not have tabled a proposal on unconstitutionality, not to consider it so important, but to this bill puts forward a proposal against the Minister of Finance. Why is this contradiction? We will explain all these reasons, describing what this bill describes, the six steps that the government is enacting to lose all their homes, because the aim of the bill is every citizen who has received a loan of more than EUR 30 000, every citizen who has guaranteed such a loan, who has inherited a borrower or has inherited a loan in the future, that is, everyone. The government first begins by legislating the whip, confiscation of the property of every citizen whose house, his property, is auctioned for three times and is an inappropriate auction. He's losing his property, without being compensated, without losing his debt at all. In his panic -- so he doesn't get that thing -- he'll do anything. And the 'carrots' begin. The government is starting to legislate on the early warning in order to strike the alarm bell on this citizen that the confiscation of his home is coming, that he will lose his property, to run the other one he legislated, the settlement, the electronic platform, where he will come to deliver all of his updates to his creditors, banks and other creditors. And what's the trick? What does the government legislate? They have no obligation to reply to him, they have no obligation to make a counter-proposal, and they have every right to come into consultation and cooperate with the creditors. So when he has given them all the updates, they come to the next step that the government legislates and what are they doing? They jointly apply for the bankruptcy of the citizen, the household electronically, on the electronic platform and the citizen learns it after it has been launched. And because it's on top of one, because it makes sure that the government can understand and be legitimate, it doesn't even have the right to arrest in practice. And after he does all this and loses the fortune, what does he do? They - and only those - who have an income of less than 7,000 euros can stay in their homes that no longer owns them in rent. And if they are consistent 12 months for twelve years, a hundred forty-four months, to pay the rent, then only can they do what? - to buy up their home on a zero basis in their commercial value, without falling into anything that they would pay from the rents - that is to say, the rents are not estimated, it is zero in their contribution to the redemption - without any instalment of their loan being counted, even if they had paid 95% of the loan. This is your bill. And this is the bill, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, which you refuse to commit to abolishing if you ever become a government again. And while you have refused twice at the committee level and at the plenary level to commit to answer our question, are you bringing a motion of distrust to the Minister of Finance for this bill, which - what? - will you accept with great grief, will you accept it as inevitable as a government, as you do for so many others? Because if that is the case, I see no longer your difference, and I'm talking about SYRIZA's MPs and MPs. I know you're people who have played games. I know this framework isn't worthy of you. I know you deserve better.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u133	Please complete, Mr Arseni.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u134	I shall conclude, Mr President. I call on the citizens who are listening to us being released from this two-party prison that one legislates, because that is what one believes, and the other accepts them with displeasure not being able to do what? To abolish it, to vote against, to take a position. What we are experiencing is a theater of irrationality, of the monumental irrationality. We denounce this theatre and what we are asking for is a simple one: that the Government now withdraws the Bankrupt code, this little one, the world's unprecedented bracelet against the citizens, against the property of all citizens, and the Civic Opposition to commit to abolishing it if it ever becomes a government. We as a PART25 are committed to abolishing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr Arseni. Evening from the night shift! And now I'm going to give Mrs. Theodora Jackris the floor from SYRIZA and beautiful Pella with her waterfalls. Then Mr. Voloudakis should be prepared. Here, Mrs. Jackie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, following the draft law on universal bankruptcy and the total impoverishment of all Greeks, one thing is certain: this bill is the worst, and in any case, legislative initiative in the legislative history of the Greek state, from its recommendation to today. With the exception of government failures in the management of the Greek-Turkish crisis, this bill will stagger historically and indelibly this government for its unnecessarily attack on our devastated society. This is literally out of place and time, barbaric and social analgesic, deceptively false and vengeful, as well as extremely malicious and clandestine bill, which criminalises the poverty created by those who currently propose it by casting sacrificial salt on the wounds. This bill throws salt in the wounds not only of our society, but also of our winter national market. With completely unreasonable, unreasonable anti-social and literally inhumane regulations, the whole society is becoming more and more impoverished and more productive. All of its arrangements are aimed at the undevelopment of society and the counterproductive integration of a general sense of extreme injustice, after committing poverty ten years after the Greek state's official bankruptcy and ten months after the prolonged and destructive lockdowns. The central appalling idea of this bill is this unprecedented, unprecedented and perverse injustice: The society - debtor through bankruptcy - will lose all its belongings, and its homes and wages, so that our country has been completely failed - creditor who has been bankrupt - to be refinanced by our people. This is the unsuccessful bank establishment that has bankrupt our country by creating red loans more than 52%, which has dried the pockets of taxpayers with three huge scale recapitalisations, which is still challenging even today the failed Golden Boys of bankruptcy, which "pays" the debts of hundreds of millions of euros to the true strategic poor payers, i.e. his "builds" and is begging for criminal immunity, judicial uninterrupted and general amnesty, in order to produce unhelpful loans and lead our country to bankruptcy. So this banking establishment is about to grab the homes, the existing lives, the livelihood and the lives of all the poor Greeks so that it will soon make red loans for its "friends", the strategic bad payers or fat payrolls for the well-paid Golden Boys. And while in all the legal classes of the European Union and the countries of the advanced Western world, more stringent legislation is currently being promoted in the pandemic to protect and strengthen debtors, this bill is in the opposite direction. It sharpens bankruptcy when the entire Western world into the pandemic introduces more urgent arrangements for economic insolvency and is chastising the criminalisation of poverty, as it threatens to penalise those who fail to go bankrupt as soon as their debt exceeds EUR 30,000. The bill under discussion is literally black on white, it is the "black" Greek tightening of insolvency law against the wave of the most urgent arrangements of insolvency internationally. Everywhere, in Germany, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Spain, Italy, the United Kingdom, everywhere, due to the prolonged economic crisis and the pandemic in the situation of bankruptcy, they introduce the resolution of businesses and the position of anti-fraud measures against debtors. We are the only ones in the world to go on the other hand, because bankruptcy is the liquidation and liquidation of the property of households and businesses, and it is not restructuring and restructuring. What we need are statutory programs for the resolution, restructuring and reconstruction of households and businesses. The resolution measures should certainly include the suspension of the anti-fighting measures and the granting of a period of grace to pay their debts and, in any case, a drastic write-down of the debts created by the long-term economic crisis and, of course, the pandemic, with the immediate assistance of the Recovery Fund. That's what you should do, Minister. The draft law, however, goes in exactly the opposite direction. Instead of granting a period of grace to the debtors, it accelerates the enforcement procedures against them. Instead of protecting the first home in this difficult situation, it is being seized without complying with the minimum constitutional rules for the protection of human rights. And at the same time, he mocks them, mocks them and mocks them, since by householders he will immediately make them tenants in their own home, for which they will have to pay an expensive rent, even until they lose it in a very short time. The illusion that they will stay at the house that houses their family for a while is the "colpo grosso" of this bill, in order to effectively abolish the ownership of the Greeks in their homes. Instead of protecting businessmen, grabbing them and giving them directly to creditors. Instead of improving and strengthening problem-solving mechanisms because of the business crisis, it tightens bankruptcy procedures and dismantles them, destroying the huge gains created with hard work and over time. Instead of limiting the number of bankruptcies and narrowing the cycle of bankrupt entrepreneurs, it distorts the commercial bankruptcy in an institutional universal social application, so that every natural and legal person is either a farmer, a civil servant, a worker, a student, a doctor or a lawyer, a fisherman or a barber, a contemptuous or brown person. Ladies and gentlemen, the law on universal bankruptcy and the impoverishment of all the Greeks we are debating today is supposed to be the bankruptcy code. If it were a code, however, it would have to be drafted by a legislator rather than by a lawyer "povertists". It is simply a clipboard complex of old outdated and contradictory arrangements that are unspeakably integrated and mainly falsified in order to hide the following arrangements: first, the universal bankruptcy of all Greek citizens regardless of their commercial status. This is what the title'second chance' means. After each Greek goes bankrupt and grabbed his house, his belongings and his life, he will have a second chance, that is, he will have a chance for life after death. Secondly, it hides the immediate snatching of businesses by creditors, mainly banks, without even asking businessmen. Thirdly, it conceals the abolition of the protection of the first housing of the winter Greek citizens, who will become a very little tenant and then look at it from a distance, since its owner will now be some fund from the Netherlands Antilles or some other exotic paradise of offshore. Fourthly, it conceals the abolition of legal protection for all those who have recourse to the beneficial provisions of the extrajudicial mechanism, namely, the total abolition of the extrajudicial compromise. Fifthly, it hides the rapid acceleration of execution procedures against the debtors of the crisis and the rapid removal of their underlying assets in favour of the banks. Sixthly, it conceals the criminalisation of poverty, since tens of thousands of businesses with debts of more than EUR 30 000 will have to go bankrupt immediately, or they will treat the prosecutor with heavy categories of fraudulent bankruptcy and fraudulent lending. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the universal bankruptcy of society, in order to refinance the failed and bankrupt establishment, ignores the fact that our country's bankruptcy came from the squeezes of red loans and the long-standing collapse of any banking system there. Therefore, the sacrifice of the Greek society, in order to refinance the same banks with the same supervisors and governors, with the same service logic as mocking the loans to their patrons for a patron, even once, is not just extreme barbarism and injustice. It's an inefficient financial measure. It is incomprehensible to break down valuable national, economic and social wealth. It is extreme counterproductive and anti-developmental repetition of the failed ongoing recapitalisation of banks bank bankruptcy from our society's blood. The universal bankruptcy of the Greeks, which is being attempted by the bill under discussion, is worse than a serious crime and economic felony. It's a disastrous mistake. Mr Stagiras, who is sure to listen to us, if he does not want to go into the economic history of the country as an ulterior - clearer of the property of the Greeks, will have to abandon and take back this disgraceful legislative initiative and put another one in place, moving in exactly a different direction, which will suspend the persecution, grant a period of grace to debtors and businesses, and give birth to write-offs of debts which have been incurred by the crisis and pandemic and will finally call upon your friends, the strategic poor payers, these known ones, to pay the broken-offs instead of the Greek people. Otherwise, it will remain in history as an exterminator - clearer of the property of all Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jackie. Haniotis Manosos - Konstantinos Voloudakis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone is trying to understand why this motion of censure. I have heard it from many colleagues, and I hear it outside. Why is a motion of censure condemned to failure? Why a motion of censure against a particular minister? Because a motion of censure, which in the end does not detract from anything personal to the Minister, as anyone would have expected, but, more generally, from our policy. I think I understand you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, why you are making this motion of censure. You have built your political position - many have built careers - on a specific account, in a particular myth, the myth that the Left is the culmination of the poor and the Right the culmination of the rich. So a piece of legislation called "Government Code" gives you so much that you can't do more about it. Of course, you have fallen into a series of very big mistakes that make you more difficult than the one you were when you started. To say a few words about this general account about the poor and the rich, before we see the motion of censure. The repetitive neoliberal Right would come and break the social state of SYRIZA. He would have persecuted the poor, put them in the corner, made them poorer. And what happened? The New Democracy has been implementing its programme, reducing taxes, as it had promised, and the pandemic that manages it - we will also say that - but at the same time it does something else, it does not abolish any of the benefits with which you have exercised, supposedly economic policy. And not only that, but it brings more. We have the birth allowance, which was not there, and we have today in consultation with a bill extending the minimum guaranteed income. We also have the management of the pandemic, for which the world is making its cross, which was in the government a serious faction, that the government was seriously responsible for managing this situation. What's the result so far? The result is today that the European Commission will appreciate a recession for 2020 in Greece of 9%, that is, almost all of the Eurozone, which is 8.7%. Watch what that means. Greece, the country most dependent on tourism, tourism, which is the main victim of the pandemic, manages to stand financially next to the Eurozone steam engines, alongside economies such as Italy, France and so on. 9% in Greece and 8.7% in the Eurozone. Against the Finance Minister who has secured these results, you are bringing a motion of censure. He said the Minister for Rural Development, who has just come, that he thinks that the motion of censure may be against Mr Tsakalotou. I thought about it, too. And I thought about it for a certain reason. A statement by the Eurogroup of April 2019 with Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos there. It states the Eurogroup of Members, I would say, after the meeting: "The Greek authorities have legislated a procedure for the protection of the first residence. We note the Greek authorities' commitment to ensure that this scheme is temporary and will be terminated by the end of 2019.’ In other words, they have not simply abolished the protection of the first residence, they have also made a statement of intent that they have no intention of reintroducing such protection. Who did it? Mr. Chakalotos. Of course Mr Tsipras is conducting politically males here, if he really wants to hurt Mr Tsakaloto. Because when Mr. Tsakalotos was Minister of Finance and co-signed this statement, the Prime Minister was Mr. Tsipras. Mr. Chakalotos didn't do them in his absence. When we had a confrontation with Mr Tsakalotos in the Committee on Economic Affairs at this very point, Mr Tsakalotos is not here now, but I will say what he said - to say: 'But, you know, we are saying something else'. What else does that say? What's Mr. Tsakalotou's apology? I'm going back to the April 2019 Eurogroup statement. It says: "We welcome the Greek authorities' commitment to harmonise and improve in the coming months the bankruptcy and insolvency regimes". They have made a commitment, namely, that they will not bring back first home protection, but that they will also bring a holistic framework then. Mr Chakalotos also believes that this commitment is being abolished. He seems to have been asked by his colleagues at the Eurogroup in 2019 to abolish the law he had brought, because he did not protect the first residence enough. It would bring stronger protection, that is what the Europeans, Mr Sedenano and the others were asking him to do. These are not serious things, of course, but we have this opposition. The misunderstanding continues in general with the issue of bankruptcy. The opposition is trying to give the impression that now people are going to go bankrupt, that so far they are not going to go bankrupt. The law gives a process. The actual event of bankruptcy existed, there is, and there will be, unfortunately. What's going on now? Now it is ensured that if anyone goes bankrupt, they cannot be in the category of these people, the entrepreneurs who went bankrupt and they were rich. That's the first. Secondly, it is ensured that the process is quicker. And that's good, you know why? Today, when one enters the bankruptcy process, it does not mean that because it lasts for many years, it holds his fortune and rejoices with it. He's bound to be his property. The fact that it will end faster means that it can really make a new start. And it will not be necessary, as today, even after his property has been liquidated, to inherit debts to the children, because he will be given the opportunity to close his accounts. These are not pleasant things, the bankruptcy procedures, but that is the reality. Free accommodation - to come to the first home too - no status has been able to offer its citizens, nor have you. And there in the regime, where there was really a free house for some time in Eastern Europe, you know, some other microproblems have been created and, finally, the regime has collapsed. You couldn't bring it back. We are now actually bringing in some provisions whereby the most important person, who is in need of leaving his home, may have a relief, has a grant for five years in the bankruptcy proceedings. He has then, if he eventually go bankrupt and loses his home, the possibility of staying in this house with a rent and has the opportunity to buy it back if things go better. All this is progress. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I'm closing with this. The conditions that have brought you to power will not come again with the image you have given and you are giving us as a parliamentary party. The citizens today require something more serious than the functioning of a 15-member or student party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u139	Thank you too, Mr Voloudakis. Mr. Chakalotos heard his name. He came right over. We'll give him the floor. But until the space is cleaned up. Mr. Chaakalot, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, I am making a lasting effort to have a serious debate. What Mr Voloudakis said and said in committee, exactly the same. We have replied to him that neither he nor Mr Stakoras have brought either a document that says about our own commitment to abolishing first residence. The Eurogroup itself in its report explains very clearly that we are awaiting our new proposals, which in these new proposals nowhere says about the abolition of first residence. I am making one last attempt, because if you cannot, Mr Voloudakis, follow a debate, follow the arguments, then I will conclude that you are doing so on purpose, because you want to lower the level of the debate, you want to lower our level of democracy. I told you in committee too. You say the same arguments again and again, without a change, without an attempt to listen to what the other one says, and that leads you, who do not care at all, but your party, which I care less, to lower our level of democracy. You should go back to Crete and say that you are no longer a politician, but a mere politician.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u142	You have the floor, Mr Voloudakis, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u143	Mercy! Mercy with lies and inability to deal with arguments!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Chakatte, please! I don't want a nerve.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u145	I, Mr. Chakaloto, asked why...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u146	No, Mr. Voloudakis! This is where you'll address, please. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u147	Yes, sir. I, Mr President, read the statement which...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u148	What Mr Chakalotos said in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u149	And not only that, but I mentioned what his counter-project was in Europe. He says I'm not adding anything. I'm adding to this. I'm saying his counterproject is funny, it's for the fairs. How else can I say, when you say that, because we said we'd bring a holistic solution, it means we're going to bring back first home protection? Uh, only for young children is this conversation, as is generally...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u151	Where does that come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u152	...because you made a commitment in particular...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u153	What don't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u154	No dialogue! Please! Mr. Voloudakis, finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u155	I'm speaking to you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u156	Yeah, but finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u157	So SYRIZA specifically pledged, by Mr Tsakalotou, that it would end the protection of first residence and, at the same time, bring about a holistic plan for bankruptcy legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u158	Where does he say that? Why are you lying? That's not what the statement says. Read it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u159	I read the exact statement. I understand his turmoil...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u160	I said it myself, Mr. Voloudakis. Read the statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u161	I don't want salt on the wounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u162	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u163	Because I realize we're here, because Mr. Tsipras might want to expose Mr. Tsakalotos...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u164	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u165	...and I'm responsible for that, Mr. Tsipras and not Mr. Tsakalotos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u166	Good. You said it from the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u167	He's behind his then minister and what he said...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u168	Thank you very much, Mr Voloudakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u169	We agree she's a politician. You are the example of a politician. You don't care about the argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Chakatte, please! Proceed! Please! Mrs. Vuldesis has the floor and the Halkidikiotissa, Mrs. Sunday Malama, should be prepared. Let's start, Mrs. Vulture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, all over the world, in all the European countries, governments and opposition, despite their disagreements, very often conflicting, have recognised the real danger that threatens their citizens and they do everything they can to focus on the great problem of pandemic, which is globally resurrected. They did not come up with a political crisis and a division among their peoples or any kind of political diversion. Everyone except two, the SYRIZA in Greece and the far-right VOX in Spain, third to a party that submitted a motion of censure against the minority government of Sandeth-Inglesia. Despite a motion of censure, the Spanish Government would fall to Spain yesterday - and I say this to the other parties of domestic opposition - all Spanish parties voted against the motion of censure. The Qualified Opposition, the People's Party with its leader Pablo Casado, voted against the motion of censure, to make it clear that his party is voting not on the rupture and polarisation, respecting the fight against the coronary. Greece has been giving the hardest fight for eight months on many parallel, heavy migration - with many invitings in the past - an attempt to invade Evros, a coronary crisis and a general threat of war. While Greece has put all the state apparatus on standby for eight months, which has had to happen since the last century, Armed Forces, Security Bodies, Port, Health Staff, the entire state and private sector, at this time of the unprecedented global crisis, SYRIZA is sitting outside and stone, indulging in fireworks. Hypocrisy and enthusiasm! Hypocrisy, because SYRIZA is now a Memorandum Party that has ruled and knows that in a country with 300 billion public debt, so much private, 134 billion public and insurance debts, there is no one who sleeps in peace. Five years, just, SYRIZA was kicking over the can, as he does on all matters. SYRIZA represents the memorial, while half of the ten memorial years are his. He portrays the protector of the poor and the weak, while he has cut off the ESS and the pensions from the widows. He has voted for no measure of relief from the blow caused by the pandemic, none of the legislative acts that Stagiras, against which SYRIZA now turns, has brought to the vote in Parliament. SYRIZA has not voted for either the allowance to doctors or the relief measures from the premise of 'January' or the compensation for farmers. I'm sorry to ask my political colleagues, who are in a panel and say that SYRIZA and my journalists are backed up on the other hand, where did he put his back on? He hasn't voted for anything. Smile from the first moment when to the mask, when to the schools, all nagging. Two COVID programmes in Thessaloniki, before we know where the pandemic and its depth lies. So, what was he supposed to do if SYRIZA didn't put his back on what he'd do? Would he preach an adventurous and say to the world: “Get out and defy bans on the coronary”? I can't understand that logic that SYRIZA put back on. He didn't put his back on anywhere. She didn't vote for anything and she's been muttering from the start. Why are they all trying to look good, like they're afraid of something? The truth is that, SYRIZA is the party, which, when it is in the opposition, proclaims that he will place the banks under public control and when he comes to the government he leaves the banks, wings the deposits, closes them with five acts of legislation, depletes their stock exchange value and when he is again in the opposition, starts to shout out for the banks, who he despised them, not to have a bank that is under state control. It is the party, SYRIZA, who, when it is in the Anti-Population, says that the funds are the crows of destruction, and then brings the funds, by law, allowing them to have a seat outside Greece, delivers them the loans of all Greeks and their service, votes for the laws - so were colleagues - for electronic auctions and not only those laws, but also a law on speeding up the repetition of the auctions, voting for a law by which the bank is selling the loan to a fund to be able to notify not in twelve months, as it was on the eve, but with a sms or a mail and otherwise is the protector of the first home! But, of course, when SYRIZA fought anti-racist law in 2011 and also wrote "AUGI", in 2013, he pushed for his vote and in 2014 did not vote for it, what can anyone expect? That's typical. In 2011 he shouted in favour, in 2013 he shouted against, in 2014 he did not vote for him. As long as he was in Anti-Policy, he never dealt with national issues. Suddenly they all became over-patriots and struggling, while we knew what happened all these years in the Aegean and in the Eastern Mediterranean, because I saw Mr. Tsipras dealing with and consumed much of his speech on national issues. But of course, there are no national borders for you, there are only class. That's what he said. I don't know where you were then, in another party.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u172	You don't remember them well, Mrs. Vulture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u173	I remember them very well. National themes SYRIZA called them "so-called national themes" and its founding declaration in 2013 -- not in 1823 -- said that we would restore the national and patriotic to the genuine people. I did not understand when you became such great patriots that you dealt with the national issues, which also NAVTEX were rockets coming out on land and undiminished people were vacating port ships, but all under the carpet. Underneath the carpet the national issues, under the carpet the problem of first home, everything under the carpet and it was very nice and quiet in the country and we learned nothing. Now you're saying the media doesn't mention it. When did the media report these happening in the Aegean Sea on SYRIZA? I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: many words, thick words, myaloplasts, all countries have a problem with the coronary, SYRIZA gives advice. Then take you for government advisers, don't lose your mind. Go to "Borrow My Brain" to rent your minds in other countries that have a problem and cannot solve it. Otherwise, you go lost, I honestly tell you. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u174	And we thank Mrs. Vultusis. Mrs Malama has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure to the Minister of Finance is all about the policies it has implemented before the pandemic and during the first wave of the pandemic, but also now. Government economic policies have led to an absolute dead end to millions of our fellow citizens, workers, professionals, pensioners and have plunged the country into an unprecedented recession. Whole branches of the economy are literally permeated. The poorness of the citizens is rapid and in this climate the Ministry of Finance chooses to bring a bill that dismantles the backbone of the real economy and literally flies the way for those who are under these economic difficulties. Today the Ministry of Finance restores the threat of auctions and seizures for citizens and businesses in a way that would actually envy him and the well-known "archs of austerity", Tomsen, Disenblum, Shoeble. You do not hesitate to abolish all protection to the highly indebted citizens and to businesses in the middle of a pandemic. You threaten to take them all literally, indifferent to the enormous dimensions of the economic crisis that the world is currently experiencing after this pandemic. So the notorious "We stay Home", which you repeat over and over and over and where it is paid to your channels, will be meaningless soon, because very simply the house will not exist, the bank will have taken it. So the Treasury works challengingly for society, not only because it abolishes all protection of the first home, but because it makes the indebted person of the banks forever, for the rest of his life. And that's not only because the bank will be able to auction its home with express procedures, but because it condemns citizens who cannot pay their housing loan in eternal bank bonds. The citizen who loses his home, then loses all of his property in addition to the sum of EUR 611 per month, the so-called 'fair living costs'. As above this amount, it goes directly to creditors, whether in the case of pensions or in the case of immovable property, excluding mortgages, or other assets. All this is going to the bank. And, unfortunately, the drama you cause doesn't end here. For the citizen who does not want to lose his home, the Ministry of Finance proposes this incomprehensible: he proposes to rent his house at a price to be fixed by the bank and if after twelve years he cannot buy it from the beginning, he will be forced to leave. I mean, he's gonna pay rent at his house for twelve years, the loan instalments he's paid for, they're going to be lost anyway, and he's gonna pay the house back from the beginning, without even subtracting the rents. If that's not the definition of wellbeing, if that's not the definition of plastic, then what is it? However, your designs also have a second dimension equally destructive and threatening for society. The framework for the bankruptcy of the companies you want to implement would be jealous even of Michael Douglas, as my colleague mentioned earlier in movies. Michael Douglas was playing the stock exchange in Wall Street, Wall Street's "shell street." What did this guy do? He was engaged in a vicious, aggressive, speculative business restructuring hunt in difficulty to pay, dismantle their businesses and liquidate their assets, leaving the workers on the road. With your plans for mass bankruptcy, you copy exactly this Oliver Stone script. And that, of course, not in the sphere of the illusion of reality, but as a real nightmare for society that is confronted with it. Any company that is now in difficulty in paying will be ordered by its main creditor, i.e. the bank, in liquidation and liquidation, by all employees without compensation and by all their assets. Minister, you are not here, but, unfortunately, you and your state have overcome cynicism, a cynicism that really shocks. In the bankrupt business, you expropriate everything and the bankrupt person is brought to court. From this point on, after losing everything, the bankrupt person is convicted of living forever in the grey zone of the economy. What he will do, if he finds work somewhere, will be a expropriated income - by the lenders always - while he will never be able to start another job, having lost all ability to work, along with, of course, his home and all his belongings. The government should say whether these initiatives are its own inspiration, or whether creditors are dictated, that is to say, if it wants to destroy the real economy or ask for it. We warn citizens and small businessmen that the snatching of the property and the break-up of a business after the coronary recession will be a small game in the hands of bankers if this economic policy continues. 90% of small and medium-sized enterprises in this country, all of the rural businesses and cooperatives, the rural land and the means of production in general, are threatened by the madness of your government's economic policies, which come to destroy what the Krone crisis leaves behind. In conclusion, I would like to repeat again and again to hear the following: the bank will have the right to dismantle any business for six months or owes more than EUR 30 000, workers will be made redundant and means of production, buildings, machinery, will also be auctioned. At the same time, this citizen, apart from his business, will lose his home, and he will rid himself of all his assets from the bank. If this isn't financial cannibalism, then what is it? That is why, and above all for the protection of society itself, we ask Parliament to vote against the motion of censure on the economic policy of the government and the leadership of the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much, Mrs Malama. Mrs Lina Mendoni, the Minister for Culture and Sport, is now called at Step. Here, Mrs. Mendoni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance decided yesterday to assemble its forces and exert opposition, by pressing on the well-known practices of 2012, 2013, 2014. He forgets that they spent about five years of his own rule, tested and failed, ruled and judged. However, he returns to the same practices. By tabling the motion of censure, he asks that we withdraw our confidence by the Minister of Finance Christos Stakoura, because, as SYRIZA claims, instead of the Minister supporting the employees, the professionals, the households and having a plan to address the needs of the pandemic, he recommends and implements policies that have brought down the recession in the country before the pandemic even engulfs. SYRIZA, who also conceptually ignores the phrase "project to deal with problems and crises" and exhausts his social sensitivity to self-determining as the country's only socially sensitive body, calls on the Finance Minister that his policies are socially analgesable and do not serve society. I am before you today not by a governmental obligation, but because I want this Step forward to declare my confidence in the Minister of Finance and to tell you the contribution of the Ministry of Finance in the exercise and implementation of policies in the field of culture and especially in the professionals of culture. I am here to talk to you about some of the events of the fifteen months relating to the cultural portfolio and to remind SYRIZA that this government is implementing public policies of an unprecedented pandemic, which it does not use as an alibi, when, in fact, SYRIZA has agreed during its government service, that it ignored basic rules of governance, domestic and European. In other words, Greece lost four and a half years without SYRIZA finally learning to rule or solve problems. To come to our meetings, I have presented in detail the main pillars of the development of public cultural policies. The plan that I have then developed is day after day in progress. All actions developed by the Ministry of Culture and Sport aim to have tangible and measurable results in the quality of life of citizens, to promote contemporary creation, to cultural entrepreneurship, to regional and national economic development. Specific examples: European co-financed programmes have been integrated and continuously incorporated new cultural projects across the territory. The effective use of the co-financed resources of the NRP 2014-2020 is a priority of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. We are developing a strong mobility with the thirteen regions, working perfectly with their regional and service directors, drawing up and depleting the resources available for cultural infrastructures and actions. This huge effort of fifteen months is yielding. By 22 September 2020, a total of two hundred sixty-nine cultural heritage projects and a modern budget culture amounted to 294 million. Of these ninety-one joined in the last 12 months, and all is going on. In other words, we have increased in fifteen months compared with about five years of governance SYRIZA by 51.1% and public resources for culture projects by 35.1%. We have increased the legal commitments by 51.3% of the total budget, we have increased expenditure by 80.4%. Only the projects that we incorporated from September 2019 until today, create more than a thousand jobs. From the outset, we have given priority to cooperation with the first and second degrees of self-government and with many other institutions, ministries, universities, metropolitan institutions to develop cultural development projects through the conclusion of programming contracts. Seventy-seven-six budget contracts have been signed during the fifteen-month period, and they are undergoing a dynamic increase of eighty-six new contracts throughout the territory, the budget of which amounts to 56 million, creating hundreds of jobs. We have proved and demonstrated in practice that there is an integrated plan which leads to the full strengthening of the cultural landscape, the cultural map of the country and the capitalisation of all the possibilities that the sector offers us. In the field of contemporary culture, the fact is that the unprecedented international health crisis has but not stirred up our plan to strengthen modern creation. We were concerned and were absolutely interested in strengthening the industry's authenticity and strengthening its employees. Our pandemic and accumulated problems strengthened our conviction that only through structural reforms and addressing the real issues of the area, labour, tax, education, training, access to financial tools, intellectual property protection, the cultural and creative sector will be a force for cohesion and growth lever. These problems were raised by pandemics. But the problems existed, they were known, but nobody did. The people of culture were invisible to SYRIZA. Today we are working systematically all the co-operating ministries together to find clean solutions to problems of decades. Significant reform is the establishment of a register of cultural professions that, beyond the necessary mapping of the sector, today provides a way out of strengthening the EUR 534 allowance to workers who are not located in other archives. Our aim is to demonstrate and demonstrate that culture can offer an alternative sustainable model that promotes social cohesion and at the same time operates multiplierly not only as an economic investment but also as a social educational investment in the country and the future generations. A hub in this context is the partnership and conversation of the cultural stock with modern creation. Given the pandemic and the immediate problems that have arisen, in addition to the horizontal measures taken by the Government and in particular the Ministry of Finance in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour for all workers and obviously for the professionals of culture - which SYRIZA insists that the Government had forgotten - and the Ministry of Culture and Sport was associated with the political and administrative hierarchy of the Ministry of Finance designed and implemented development measures totalling more than 25 million euros. With Law 4708/2020, we founded "AKROPOL", which is expected to have a catalytic effect on modern Greek creation, on the conditions prevailing in the cultural and creative sectors, on the support and strengthening of the professionals of the industry, on the national economy and on the promotion of the modern face of Greece in the world. It maximizes through its actions the benefit of the cultural resources invested, while supporting its cultural industry and professionals. Creators are supported in order to make use of economic tools, opportunities and opportunities for programmes and international networks. With the draft law which is expected to be put into public consultation in the next two days, the Archaeological Resources Fund is renamed to the Agency for the Development and Management of Cultural Resources. It is reorganised and modernised by having clear developmental features. Its aim is to upgrade the quality of services provided to visitors of archaeological sites and museums with extensive use of new digital technologies, to take active initiatives for a modern sales policy, to exploit the property for the benefit of healthy production forces in the country. These actions should achieve the necessary digital transformation in the functioning of the organisation, enhance the functioning of cultural infrastructures, make them more attractive, contribute to the enrichment of the country's tourism product, as well as increasing incomes and employment, and ultimately increase the state's resources to support policies to promote the promotion and exploitation of cultural heritage, as well as the implementation of common policies and actions with modern culture. In the fifteen months of governance, we redefined and reactivated spaces and construction sites, which last year sprung into absolute inertia and hypnosis. A characteristic example of the National Gallery rendered bright and renewed on 25 March 2021 and Tatoi, which is also one of the government's flagship works. Today the farm is a construction site, while the viability study is being consulted the next month. The studies are being carried out, public utility networks are being launched, rebuilding and maintenance projects are being fully guaranteed by the NSRP and the public investment programme by 2023. Attiki gradually acquires an extremely important cultural and development resource, a special destination for Greek and foreign visitors with tangible results in the local and national economy. The second example is the National Museum of Contemporary Art. In July 2019, we committed that the building of “PHIX” will operate in the first half of 2020 as a museum of contemporary art, which Athens needed, as it was one of the few metropolitan museums that had no similar museum and not as a cultural multi-country as it had been operating in recent years. We completed the procedures, absorbed the 3 million euros of the sponsorship of the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation, which the inertia of SYRIZA led to loss. On February 24, 2020, we awarded the National Museum of Contemporary Art to the Athenians. In the grief of some, this government can also plan and implement cultural works. It can establish and implement with a specific project public policies for culture as well. The curse of the Atreids did not strike in 2020. Just some ignore or do not want or accept that the Lions Gate did not grey from the fire that never passed from there, but that this is the color of its stones due to aging and fungus. Unlike others, this government operates as a whole under the presidency and guidance of Mr.Mitsotakis. It works single, produces measurable work, improves citizens' quality of life. For this reason and for all the above, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to vote against SYRIZA's motion of distrust and to vote for a vote of confidence in the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Mendoni. Mr.Ioannis Andrianos from Argolida and Mycenas and New Democracy, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the motion of censure tabled by SYRIZA obviously because of the inner-party issues he has and, of course, because of his political impasses. Because it does so in a political and social climate with particular and critical features. A climate mainly characterised by the extraordinary need to manage the pandemic and its effects on public health and the economy, as well as the need to manage the Turkish challenge in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean. In this critical juncture, therefore, the Qualified Opposition considered it appropriate to table a motion of censure on this issue of the new bankruptcy code against this political person, the Minister of Finance. Of course, this is an institutional right of opposition, but at the same time the right and the prerogative of politicians is to judge the initiatives of the political forces both in terms of their internal consistency and the extent to which they actually serve collective good and, in particular, the good of the most vulnerable groups. So ask yourself, ladies and gentlemen, how the Greeks and Greeks today judge this initiative. Because society, the Greeks and the Greeks in their overwhelming majority, and even regardless of ideological origins and electoral behaviours, they are glad to say that with all these challenges we have to face at the wheel of the country it is the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the New Democracy. In particular, in the field of the national economy led by Christos Stakoras, the difference between the results of the current government's policy from the previous one is obvious. In a few months' time after the elections, therefore, the economy was stabilised and introduced into a positive developmental orbit. On the basis of the reduction of taxation, the implementation of the necessary reforms and the dynamic promotion of investment, the positive economic climate has been restored, as shown in the agreements on the implementation of major investment projects in our country, but also in the particularly low interest rates that Greece can now borrow. But once the pandemic has come to pass, the effectiveness of today's government has proved beyond question with targeted measures limiting the effects of the crisis, especially on the most affected households and setting the foundations for a dynamic recovery and development as soon as the health emergency is stabilised. In an unprecedented world treaty, therefore, the Government and in particular the financial staff in order to move to uncharted waters not only have they ensured significant resources to deal with the consequences of the pandemic, but they have shown their full readiness to keep these and targeted support measures of the affected social and professional groups permanently up-to-date. The citizens, therefore, are able to know very well what would happen if the officials of the former government were called on to manage this unprecedented crisis. Why should we not forget that in 2017, on SYRIZA, electronic auctions were imposed, and indeed the then Minister of Finance pointed out that the procedures were accelerated and that more than twenty-five thousand auctions were made. As also, they are able to know very well the ear and micro-party character of the objections of Antipolistism when, to mention just one example, the protection of the first residence was abolished in February 2019 by the then government of SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, in a double-critical climate for the country and society, which is marked by the pandemic crisis and Turkish aggression, Accuracy Opposition has chosen to strengthen the political climate, and has even chosen as the basis for an issue on which the works and days of its own annulled it and the citizens are not prepared, of course, to follow it. The government will, of course, continue to do its job seriously, responsibly and effectively to permanently close the wounds that the ten-year crisis has opened in our society and to ensure that all Greeks and all Greeks have a future of growth and prosperity. I conclude with this wish that the multitude of unfavourable initiatives by the Officerate should not signal the beginning of a wider micro-group strategy of acidification and polarisation, especially in those areas, such as the foreign policy, which is particularly necessary at this juncture, for the country's democratic political order to show maturity and, if not, at least a unity of sincere national understanding. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr. Adriane. We're not going far. We're staying in the Peloponnese. Mr Katrinis has the floor from the Prefecture of Elias and the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the motion of censure against the Minister of Finance of a government that, while scanning in communication, has not succeeded in giving answers to the serious issues that concern both the country and the citizens. Does he have a processed strategy on major national issues? Does he have a realistic plan for managing the pandemic? Does it have a specific plan to support workers and stimulate the market? These critical questions, which unfortunately remain unanswered. And they remain unanswered, ladies and gentlemen, because the government believes that it can manage reality on communal terms alone, but at the same time it has no plan, it has a substance deficit, but it has a surplus of arrogance and complacentness. And all this is not just happening at the same time, but it is inextricably linked to each other. You will, however, allow me to begin putting forward the reason why we are here today and it is none other than the motion of censure of the SYRIZA on the bankruptcy framework brought by the government. But let's see how true SYRIZA disagrees with the main pillars of the new bankruptcy, which makes him even in a motion of censure, the extrajudicial compromise, the assimilation of natural and legal persons in the process of bankruptcy and the protection of the main residence. I have here the request for a roll-call vote tabled by SYRIZA colleagues. I am particularly surprised that in the articles in which the roll call for a roll-call vote there is none of the articles in the extrajudicial compromise nor of the possibility that Mr Stakoura's law will allow banks not even apply for regulation to borrowers. Lucky? Probably not, since the extrajudicial of the New Democracy follows the same philosophy of the SYRIZA extrajudicial with the only two thousand two thousand two hundred regulations in two and a half years. However, all the productive operators stressed the importance of extrajudicial in the whole process and its failure to blame professionals because of the dominant and often uncooperative position of banks. Also, the party of the Officerial Representation swears in the name of the protection of the first residence, and we are talking about the party that did not vote for Law 3869 and abolished it and brought Law 4605 with three and a half thousand regulations within eighteen - nineteen months of operation. In fact, despite the enormous failure of Law 4605, SYRIZA defended him until the last moment in writing by tabling such an amendment - I will table it in the Minutes on 8 April 2020, where it merely requested a time-limit for extension of the framework, which at that time had not even five hundred regulations and on 28 July will be tabling a new amendment - which I will table in the Minutes - to which the criteria of the law that he voted for - thirty-two changes to Syriza, two days before it expires - state, among other things, that it is faced with a very large gap in PASOK's Law 3869 which did not cover persons with bankruptcy, but only natural persons without bankruptcy, so that the problem is not tackled as a whole. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Group is almost all signatories. Does that remind you of something I just mentioned? If not, look into the explanatory statement to Mr Stakoura's draft bill, which SYRIZA blames, to find exactly the same wording. Now, since we have also seen the sincerity of SYRIZA's intentions for today's debate, we must also go to the sincerity of Mr Gerapititi, who described the motion of censure by Mr Stakoura as a "drug for the country" because of the critical national issues, manipulated by the majority Members. They are the same Members who applauded Mr Mitsotakis in this Chamber on 26 August when he said that he raised the country by extending the territorial waters to twelve nautical miles to the west only. Why just to the west? Since Mr. Gerapitris recently made it clear that a red line for the country is the six nautical miles and not the EOZ or the continental shelf. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is not an unfortunate statement. It is a huge national slip for which, at some point, the government will have to take a clear position and, of course, put Mr Gerapetititos before his responsibilities. Did anyone say to Mr. Gerapetiti that in August the Greek fleet defended our sovereign rights and the AEZ and the continental continent and not just our territorial waters? Is it worth applauding the Prime Minister's statement that he called for sanctions for the 'ORUC REIS' and the violation of the Cypriot EEZ, instead of sanctions, as he did two months ago for Agia Sophia? The policy of resentment that you are adopting leads to disastrous and further claims. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is not only the person of the Minister of Finance but the overall function and ineffectiveness - unfortunately, I say it again - of the government, but also of the policy pursued. We talked about the Bankruptcy Code and the juncture yesterday. It is a law that does not give a second chance or protect the first residence. At the same time yesterday there was a working survey - and I will put it in the Minutes - of the Institute of GSE and a hundred and eighty thousand workers on a job suspension are between Scylla and Harybdis, that is, between unemployment and underemployment, and during the crisis the number of people who receive a monthly salary of up to EUR 200 has increased 12 times. Tell me, Lords of the Government, the 200 euro worker per month in what article of the New Banking Code fits in so that he can regulate his loans? Do you have an answer to that? How will the EUR 200 per month be the instalment that will be paid thanks to the beneficial provisions of Mr Stavoura? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. While the government is talking about 7.5% in 2021 with a basic scenario of the retreat of the pandemic, IOBE yesterday predicted in the optimistic scenario of 4.5% growth, while in the unfavourable scenario there is a recession of up to 4%. The Minister of Tourism, of course, said yesterday in Parliament that he won the tourism bet with 80% reduced revenues for this year. Mr. Consola, when you do the treat, you can also invite us to see who you put the bet on. Small and medium-sized enterprises see the banks' loans in chalk, the self-employed, joint ventures are excluded from regional aid, while large firms receive all loans and small businesses 2.5% of the money. Red loans increase eight to ten billion. Negatives are multiplying, unemployment exceeds 20%, the fall in the turnover of 50 billion euros. Of course, at the same time, the government thinks it should celebrate - it says - for the fifteen-year bond and the strong economy, for the money you can raise as available, but this money at the same time is depriving small and medium-sized enterprises, even the liquidity of the repayable advance and, of course, of the 1.4 billion that it gave for a job suspension in 2020, will give EUR 72 million in 2021. So this money for whom are you borrowing, gentlemen of the government? You are preparing inflated cleansing for next year on the basis of the goal and, of course, you are leading to fast track bankruptcys. Ladies and gentlemen, a citizen conspiring on the subway or on the bus is listening to a pandemic plan, but is not convinced. A professional who sees his turnover falling, carrying weight after ten years of crisis, listens to a stimulus of liquidity but is not convinced.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u182	Finish, Mr. Catarini.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u183	I shall conclude, Mr President. A worker who has been unemployed or on a job suspension hears of a work shield, but he is not convinced either. The Government of New Democracy very nicely describes a very difficult reality, a reality that cannot be changed and I fear very much that it does not think it needs to be changed. The Movement of Change with Responsibility and Fighting continues to fight for all those who fight for the future, for their work, for their own lives. Of course, in the light of social law and respect for the citizens, we cannot give a vote of confidence neither to the government nor, of course, to Mr Staikora. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Mr Catherine. Let me inform the ladies and gentlemen that by the third cycle we will go, i.e. until the thirty-sixth speaker. As soon as the third cycle is closed, the other colleagues if you want to stay, if you want to leave. Mrs. Dunya, you're the thirty-third. We continue with Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis from Achaia and New Democracy. Get Mr. Moraite ready. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the question I think needs to be answered is a question which we all have in mind is why now. Why now did SYRIZA choose to table the motion of censure? Why now did Mr Tsipras choose to table a motion of censure that will certainly be voted against? Because I will remind you that since 1975 no motion of censure has been voted in favour, not even the one you had tabled in 2013 against Mr Stournaras and you voted together with the Golden Dawn, let alone today that the government is strong, while the Civic Opposition is in a difficult position: internal arrays, disagreements, complaints from former Ministers is on the agenda. But that answers why now. Because Mr. Tsipras has now chosen, he now needs to use Parliament as a tool to set up his party. The country's on a red alert. He faces multiple crises, and Mr. Tsipras only cares about his political rescue. He's using the bill for the second chance as a pretext. He doesn't care about the toilers, it's not about our fellow citizens who are in danger of losing their home. After all, he voted for the law that today loses their homes. He doesn't care about the narrow-minded business. Besides, he banished them taxly. All he cares about is controlling his party, his shop. He divides society to unite SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, after you have legislated to abolish the protection of first residence, you are coming today and you are asking for the change. Use the word "prudence" that in itself has negative times to create false impressions. You hide reality from the Greek people. You hide what is happening today, what has happened since you abolished first home protection by your own law. Today a citizen who owes is losing all his fortune in auction. And he's not just losing all his fortune, but he still owes his creditors. He cannot obtain any new property as long as he lives and after his death his burdens are inherited to his children. That's what you did. On the contrary, the bill that the New Democracy brings today automatically provides for the debt relief of its debts by the end of a certain period of time from the declaration of bankruptcy, which I am sure is happening today, but at the same time no exemption. Just with your choice, while people lose everything, they also owe their grandchildren, while with our choice after a while they will be able to try again. You're the one who's been humiliated, and you've forgotten about it. We provide for even a debt haircut so that we can give a second chance. The Government of New Democracy today manages three major crises: the escalation of Turkish aggression in the Aegean Sea, the escalation of the coronary pandemic around the world and the danger of a global protracted economic crisis and manages it successfully. At the same time as our homeland is trying to meet the challenges of the times, the Civic Opposition plays dangerous communication games on the backs of the Greek people. By the time the country had the battles, what are you asking for? Elections? Say it. Is that a solution? Say it. We expected something better than you, not, of course, to put back on it, but at least not to sabotage the efforts to get the country ahead. Gentlemen of counterpopulation, think in patriotic terms. Put Greece forward. Don't thicken the climate. Do not turn the country into the era of the great conflicts that have dissolved Greece. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, take a second chance, as the bill shows, and withdraw your own motion of censure against the Minister of Finance. It will, after all, be voted against on Sunday. Do you have any disagreements with the bill? To discuss them, to find solutions, to claim even better choices for those who are anxiously awaiting outlets from us. But don't turn your back on the businessmen and the houses that are narrow. Let us give the opportunity to those who had an economic failure to get up again, to stand on their feet at the least cost, to try again. That is what entrepreneurship requires. Ladies and gentlemen, patriotism is to disguise the problems of the country and give solutions, solutions for many, solutions with prospects and courage. Five years you've only been talking. You looked at the problem while you knew that while it's not solved, it's growing. In words, you put them with the banks, and you actually gave them everything from the back door with a lot of privileged arrangements that you've been through. You were their obedient friends. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that you will return to your introvert. We have a lot of work to do to get the country to the front. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr Katsaniotis, and, of course, respect for time. Mr Athanasios (Greens/EFA, D) Mr Moraite. Let's go a little norther in Ietolokarnania, near Achaia, and get Mr. Pilaris ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now clear that you have been taking the steps of an extreme neoliberal agenda for 15 months. You are loyal to your service policy to friends, friends, people and enjoyable. With the suffering of the drop, you devastate the Greek economy. You sold growth and brought the padlocks. You've sold hope and led the country to the collapse. You've turned your back on small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, and that's what you've done consciously with your policies, the decisions, the laws you've brought all the time. You have, of course, also sent to the bells all your great words and commitments to support the middle-class that we have been listening to in the election. Just keep your mouth shut and you make deals underneath the table. Direct assignments to you are a big party on the occasion of the pandemic that is under way and, unfortunately, right now. To understand your statusal logic you have still set this period of aim to manipulate and quantify even sport in the country. While the amateur unions in the country are waiting for Mr. Aughaki's infamous 12 million, you are directly outsourced by 500 million by deporting ERT, working on the athletes and the Olympics, in order to control the elections of the federation that are coming. It's time for things to be clear. The motion of censure tabled because your destructive work in progress must be stopped, citizens must see and know what the script is, who the director is and who his protagonists are. First and foremost, however, we must put a brake on the bill - looting - which you have the courage, indeed, to call it a'second chance'. However, ladies and gentlemen, the real objective of the Banking Code must finally be revealed. The government methodically and surgically attempts to give the country's keys to the bankers, to the loan sharks, to the creditors and to the masks, I think they have now fallen, to the wardrobe and within 15 months you supposedly patriots have turned the country into a Europe and Eastern Mediterranean. Today's results of Turkish provoking without limits led your doctrine, the doctrine of predictable and given ally, which in these hours causes a great deal of damage to our national interests. The same catastrophic policy is being pursued in the health crisis. In May you said that you defeated the coronary and at the same time left the society unprepared and unprepared in view of the second wave that we had before us. The tragic images in public transport, the alalum with the opening of schools are the result of your own choices. All you care about, of course, is how you manage the mess you create. Your ally on this, of course, are your chosen media, which are savage to you from morning till night. From now on, however, you can be sure that these may have them with you, but instead you will have most of the Greek society. Ladies and gentlemen, you do not leave anything up with your policy. You are building a terrible future for households, businesses, freelance professionals and pensioners, with violent realisation of their property. The first residence comes out in the hammer. What is your only and alleged care? Renting the debtor's house for twelve years. Here too, listen to the irrationality you are setting up. The borrower will buy his home after a 12-year period at the then trade price and value without counting the loan instalments given before entering this great adventure and with the obligation - listen to this, it matters - if he buys his home, if he wants to buy it back before the 12th year, pay all the rents he is missing. And that's what you call a second chance. What I want to say to you is that you fill the country with tenants, leasing, newly-poor and sworn debtors. Ladies and gentlemen, your plans are specific. They may not play in the first titles of the media, but they have a framework and the interests you serve have a name. They have shown themselves with the scandalous haircuts of loans to your friends, shipowners, big businessmen and friends, they have shown with the example of the six companies that received the eight-month January - August 2020 50% of financing from the banks. And indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I do not know if you have been concerned about the statement made by the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Greece, Mr Mitrakou, that the financial flow towards large businesses has increased by 9.2%, while small and medium-sized enterprises do not even see in our country the color of money. I do not know if you have been truly concerned about whether the central banker with all this haircut party, which is being held on batters - in real batters - has convened a meeting with the Bank of Greece to see and control. And I bring it as an example to remind you that he convened a whole meeting with the channels from the outside and the first theme at night on the news of Paul's loan of 100,000 euros. This to understand a little how dirty the game is. And to be clear, you give the keys to the bankers, after you have washed them out first. You give the keys of the country to a small group of strong transients and jets that do your job. Historically, I want to remind you - and I keep doing so - that you have always been against the healthy productive and innovative forces of this place. So cut the job! Your aim and goal is to build and form the banks by car the new business map of the country, by strengthening specific groups, weakening their competitors, creating new stronger shapes through takeovers, absorptions and mergers. The result of your policy is the most violent restructuring the Greek economy has ever seen since the Second World War until today and in the worst terms. You are the government that impoverishes the backbone of the Greek economy, which condemns the middle-class in bankruptcy. You're the government who only sees opportunities for biscuits on the one hand and zombies on the other. Allow me to say, you're a fictitious government, a government dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u188	Thank you too, Mr Moraite. Parliamentary I of Athens Mr Athanasios Plearis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, it really is a great deal of courage when you hear the SYRIZA Members referring to the middle-class, and I am addressing, in particular, those colleagues here who are professionals who have come to politics and not those who are professional politicians. Because we experienced Mr Tsakalotou's economic policy while we were not MPs and were working in the free profession. And you gave a huge opportunity today to the government, which should probably have caused a prior-day provision on matters, to see what it has done in economic policy, with reference to what we call'medium-class', what we have done and what you have done. For you four and a half years in your governance with a specific policy that fits the philosophy of the Left, which was of interest to punish anyone who can make money in this place. You arrived in combination with taxation and insurance contributions for a minimum of 55% to 75% and 80%, without calculating the advance tax. It was you who increased the insurance contributions to the free professions up to 45% and you were the ones who put 30% insurance contributions into income. And you know why that was unfair? Because hypocrisy on the Left is great. If it were right, why didn't you do that to the Members, to the Members' payroll? If it was right what you did to free professionals as taxation and insurance contributions, why didn't you do it for yourself? Because it is not possible at the moment for a lawyer, a doctor, a political engineer with Mr Tsakalotou's tax system and Mr Katrugalos' insurance system to pay EUR 100,000 to pay EUR 70,000 and consider it fair, but the MP to EUR 100,000 to pay EUR 40,000. Do you understand what your hypocrisy is? Your hypocrisy is that when it's about getting people's money, you take off your social logic. But when you're gonna put your own money, you're having trouble. As I told you yesterday, the difference between the New Democracy MPs and the SYRIZA Members is that we paid two wages, one in every month for the COVID crisis, while you put down an amendment. That was the difference, you put down an amendment to give the Members money, and we gave them money. And you say that you give a sum to the party, that is your right to give it, but you cannot say that it is a framework related to taxation. 22%, which was up to EUR 10,000 - why you cannot tell me that EUR 10,000 was a high income - we went to 9%. What do you think? 'We did not have time to finish it'. You said you wanted to cut him down, but what happened? You didn't have time to finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u190	We had gone through the bill, you don't know that well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u191	You didn't have time to finish it. What have you been through?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u192	No, we passed the bill!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u193	Generally speaking, Mr Chakaloto, you know, it's a big problem not to end things that he wants to end. That's a problem. It's good for the man to finish what he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u194	We passed the bill. Didn't we pass it? You know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u195	He didn't go to HISBIA...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u196	No dialogue, please! Mr. Pluri, go on!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u197	Did we get through the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u198	You didn't go through anything! And then why are we here to vote for a reduction in HISBIA?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Floris, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u200	Will you apologize if I bring you the law adopted?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u201	Mr. Florie, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u202	Since you are causing me, Mr Chakaloto, I heard you say here earlier that the New Democracy is a little too much responsibility because it had called for the money to be made by the world outside. You when you invested in "BLACKROCK" your "outside"... In 2015 you invested in ‘BLACKROCK’?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u203	We invested in BLACKROCK? I'm gonna sue you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u204	This is what they write in 2015. No, you're not telling me, did you not make an investment portfolio?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u205	You've got mutual funds!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u206	Mutual funds, we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u207	Please, we won't talk about investment, the bill, the reproach!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u208	Mutual funds you had!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u209	You have funds, you don't get into "BLACKROCK" for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u210	Mr. Plori, please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u211	Did you have any funds? Was your connection with foreign funds? Were these funds at risk? Were they at risk or not, Mr. Chakaloto?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u212	Do you know financially? You don't know financially!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u213	Don't hold a dialogue, Mr. Plearis!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Chaakato!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u215	Why are you talking about a bill you don't know he's been through?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u216	Mr. Chakalotto, please put me in a difficult position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u217	Yeah, but what am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u218	Let go, people will be judged! Keep going, Mr. Pleari!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u219	He's coming over here to speak in my place! Mr. Chakalato, do you want to have a dialogue? I'm telling you that you also had investment funds and that's your right. Investment funds were not money within the Greek banks committed, they were in a foreign bond. What don't I understand from economics? If the banking system collapsed, your counterpart was abroad!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u220	You don't understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u221	Is what I tell you or isn't true?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u222	We're not going to solve the financial problem here!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u223	Is it true or is it not that since your investment fund was linked to a product abroad, if the banking system collapsed in Greece, would you not have any damage? Tell me "I give you my word", is it true or is it not? If right now the banking system collapsed, would you lose your money?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u224	I suggest you go to Wikipedia, see what it says about mutual funds. It's for small and medium-sized investors.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u225	We solved it, let's go to reproach, Mr. Pleari.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u226	Read Wikipedia. I know you don't read in general, but read Wikipedia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u227	On the subject, Mr. Pleari.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u228	Did you see when a minister doesn't want to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u229	And then Wikipedia will give you a little more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u230	If your briefing is on Wikipedia...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u231	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u232	But he gave me time!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u233	He didn't give up anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u234	I gave it to you, but you didn't answer. So I'm telling you, if the Greek banking system collapsed, what you had invested in foreign investment...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u235	Mr. Flouris, answer you. Why don't you talk about our subject? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u236	Ah, in a foreign investment fund?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u237	After the Greek banks handled it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u238	And what would he say "managed"? He managed the investment fund abroad.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Floris, you won't get a minute more than that, know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u240	We know that, anyway. So here comes a bill that has the following characteristics. Now you're going to give me time. I didn't want to misuse time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u241	But you gave him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u242	After he interrupted me for a second and a half!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u243	You gave me the time!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u244	One and a half minutes, not more!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u245	I would like to give him the floor, because Mr Tsakaloto has the following effect, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u246	Mr. Florie, keep going, and then you'll ask me for another minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u247	I give him, Mr President, because you should know what we lawyers say: the defendant's greatest enemy is himself. So when you let the man responsible for what he's done speaks, he's still being exposed. At the moment, we have a government that has reduced taxes, reduced VAT, reduced insurance contributions, came and reduced HISFICA in a clear way and is coming now and doing the most important thing, gives the possibility of bankruptcy to natural persons. For those who are on the market, ladies and gentlemen, you know very well what has happened so far. If all someone's property were sold out, he was left with the debts he's got. Leave first residence. We'll come to her, too. Can't everything else be sold out? The bank accounts don't bind them? The second house won't take it out in the auction? So since he loses all this and owes it, he still owes it. It is therefore possible for the person to be bankrupt, i.e. voluntarily, to give what he has, to be deleted after all else and to be able to start from the beginning. Since February 2019 there has been no protection from you of first residence. But we're going to the law of Katseli that was a good law. What would actually happen when all these decisions were tried? Because in the Katselis law, everyone was taking a parole so that the house would not come out in the auction and paid for a dose that was set. But a man would come in. So, what happened to these righteous ones? So, at the moment, the government is coming to give a solution to the model that has already been heard whether it is an Anglo-Saxon or not. It's a solution. Because with this solution one can stay at home and be able to get his home back to the value he has. It is also possible for legal persons to have appropriate tools. It is no accident that the banks denounced the extrajudicial compromise and consider it to cause them too many problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u248	And conclude with this, Mr Ploiros, to allow other colleagues to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u249	The 'left' or 'right' is often theoretical. What we need to see is practicality and realism. What is happening now is that, for the first time, a Minister and a government - and we support this Minister - comes to give sufficient solutions to a problem that you did not dare face, and all you did was lose the first place in February 2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. Pleari. Ms Maria Konnaka has the floor now from the beautiful Lesvos and the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr President. The JRC in the person of the Minister of Finance is against the policy of the Government of New Democracy, which does not hesitate to lead the workers, the self-employed and the people as a whole to bankruptcy. We wholeheartedly vote against the policy of the New Democracy Government, which has shown us with great vigour that it is a solution for workers to be bankrupt, instead of their relatives dying bankrupt and inherited in this situation. We are voting against the policy which not only puts permanent tombstones in which the protection of the people's housing is protected, but with a vehicle to bind incomes to the level of minimum living costs it actually consolidates the minimum life they hold in the popular layers. We are, however, also voting against the policy of those parties, such as SYRIZA, who set the road and planned crime against people's housing and property and gave New Democracy more effective mechanisms and tools to complete crime today in the most cruel way. However, this is a crime that has been planned and executed at the expense of the people for many years by all governments, Memorandum and Memorandum, the New Democracy, the revolutionary PASOK and SYRIZA today, with their necessary supplements every time, which have loaded the brokens of the crisis, but also capitalist development on the backs of workers, free trades and bio-opportunities. The JRC calls on the people themselves to vote against the policy of the New Democracy and also the policy of the SYRIZA and the other parties that, with few differentiations, have, but with the same gratitude, served and serve this anti-population policy, this development path that has been confronted with the great deadlocks of overcompensation. It is the inability to meet the basic needs that led to over-lapping and smashing wages and pensions, the unemployment and the dismantling of incomes which made their repayment impossible. However, it is also a tax raid against the people's layers, the carpeting of ENPIA, the trade fee and the solidarity levy that remain in force with all governments and the evacuation of the insurance contributions of professionals and farmers are the causes of unmanageable debts to public and insurance funds. The JRC calls on the people to vote against the entire New Democracy policy which, for the sake of the viability of banking and business groups, does not hesitate to massage the hammer even the people's homes and sees protection for the particularly vulnerable to renting their homes and paying again for their purchase. However, the JRC calls on the people to vote against SYRIZA's policy, which has passed the protection of the first residence, which has set the ground with electronic auctions and has introduced a peculiar offence to ensure their implementation. It is this same policy, which itself dictates the development of capitalism, which brings together property, land and professional activity in the hands of a few more and more. This same logic is the non-negotiable principle which governed all the legislative arrangements which attempted to resolve the question of overcompensation for the people. From Katseli to its worst version each time, the criterion was the sustainability of the banks, the protection of banking and risk capital, and not the rescue of the highly indebted people's households. That is why they eventually recycle rather than solve the problem of private overcompensation. In the opposite direction is the proposal from the JRC, a proposal for a law which it has tabled to it, but also to the previous government, which you refuse and you do not even bring to the debate in the name of the retreats of the economy which you are all defending. This is because it is talking about the substantial relief of the people's strata from accumulated and unmanageable debts to banks, tax and insurance funds, that is, what you charged them with, what the attack that has been on them all these years by all the governments. The main logic of our proposal is the drastic reduction in the debts of the people's households to banks, those with an annual income of EUR 40,000 plus EUR 5 000 for every child, with a reduction in interest and a cut in half of the capital for housing loans up to EUR 200,000 and up to EUR 30,000 for consumers, but also part of the debts to the public and the funds, a reduction in the professional loans of the poor farmers and small EEB to 30% if they keep their business and 50% for those who have closed and are currently unemployed. Our proposal also includes a number of measures that remove some of the burdens so that they can actually meet their debts and not drag them into this permanent hostage. It is the proposal that focuses on saving the people and not capitalist profits. Such moves, therefore, such as those that are evolving in today's process, are attempting to acquit the policy being pursued. They are still attempting to make delusion that it is a bad Timing issue, as the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman told us yesterday, or that with a better recipe, with another management mix, they can also earn capital and popular strata. But they sum up the real guilty man, who is the same capitalist development path, the sacrifices he imposes in the name of competitiveness and the preservation of capitalist profits. The JRC invites the people to fight with all its means this policy that remains as unspeakable as any civil management government has passed and with whomever next it will come. His own experience is undeniable proof of this conclusion. The thread of this policy also catches the management of pandemic within the limits of the resilience of the economy, the policy of devaluing vital people's needs, the merchandise of health and education, the disgraceful conditions in the workplaces that endanger every day thousands of workers' lives. The only realistic solution, therefore, is to collide with urban policy in all its versions. Workers must meet in their struggle with self-employed professionals and farmers, because only through these roads will they take real breaths, pass through the flagship of their own needs. This will be theirs, the real second and final opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. Mr. Ioannis - Michael (Yiannis) Loverdes from New Democracy and the B2' Sector of Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that today I envy Christos Stakoura. What happened to him rarely in the political career of a politician, namely that the opposition should turn against him, give him such a gift and assemble in his face as a fist of fifty-eight New Democracy MPs and much more the millions of people who today support with their behaviour, their opinions and their votes with the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. It is characteristic that, if my memory is not cheating on me, it is only the fourth time that a motion of distrust has been tabled against a minister. Since 1974 no other proposals of distrust against Ministers have been tabled individually. A number of times have been tabled against governments, but against Ministers most rarely. If I'm not mistaken, if I remember correctly, the first time that the motion of distrust against the Minister was tabled was under the Minister of Gerasimos Arsenis at the Ministry of Education, when Mr. Tsipras was in charge of the demonstrations "Catch well, Gerasimas", and so on. Then, if I remember correctly, it was the first time that a motion of censure against a minister was tabled. This is because it makes no sense to table a motion of censure against a minister. The bill Stavros brought was not his bill. It was a government bill. If SYRIZA had the guts, he might have tabled a motion of distrust against the government as a whole. Stakoras introduced it, but it was an overall proposal and a attitude of the government and of the New Democracy. That is why the hundred and fifty-eight - I repeat - united as a fist will support both Stakoura and this bill. You know, I've been thinking about why this whole story took place, which, in my opinion, is an indirect undermine of the own parliamentary procedures. It could have been avoided this three-day day. Why has Mr Tsipras tabled a motion of censure against the Minister of Finance? Obviously, he didn't because he wanted to present Mr. Stakoura. They don't have any special relationships, as far as I know. He only did it for his own reasons. We have heard from SYRIZA officials - Mr Kyritsis, Mr Karanikas, has written it here - that Mr Tsakalotos has done so, he says, to ruin the Prime Minister's three-day day. That's funny, and that's obviously not why. The reason is not even the economic policy of the government, which is currently accepted by the large majority of the Greek people. Your problem, SYRIZA's comrades, is you don't have a strategy. You don't have direction. Mr. Tsipras felt at some point that he was losing the ground under his feet and was losing his party under his feet. That's why they usually in opposition make a motion of distrust to rally the party again. That is what Mr Tsipras sought to do with his own motion of censure. There's a lot of problems with SYRIZA. It's a strategic problem, a problem of identity, a problem of direction. It is even a problem of internal-party balances. It also appeared from the irritation shown by the beginning of the debate today by the parliamentary representative, Mr Tsakalotos, a man I personally appreciated but who, with his behaviour today, was particularly irritated and is not justified. It is because - I repeat - of the lack of a SYRIZA strategy. SYRIZA has no direction, has no content today within the House and outside the House. This is his problem that de facto exposes him to the eyes of the public. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] One argument we heard from many SYRIZA Members - they keep saying it, they ask questions, they incur the president of the National Broadcasting Council - is that SYRIZA is not covered by the media and that the media are challengingly playing New Democracy and the Government. Isn't that what they're telling us? I assure you, because next year I am closing thirty-five years of professional journalist, that the media always plays the one who is powerful, not because they get advertising from the government. At the moment, the New Democracy Government is strong, very strong. Kyriakos Mitsotakis' personal prestige is high. I never remember a year and a half after the elections to be so strong that the position of a government and a prime minister is so strong. And why is that? It's because we don't exist on the part of SYRIZA. Besides the government's doing well, SYRIZA's nonexistence further strengthens the New Democracy. You spasmistically are looking to find a way to deal with this unprecedented situation. In fact you need to find a way to solve your problem with the inner - party and not to solve it here in the House. You have a serious problem. I understand that, and I can tell you that I am so sad, because we are all serving the democratic parliamentary system. And the democratic parliamentary state that we must serve is needed apart from strong government and strong opposition, because if the opposition is not strong to control the government, then the government either rides the reed or relaxes. That is why my personal opinion is - and I think any healthy person involved in politics - that SYRIZA should have its role as a Dedicated Opposition. And his role is that of SYRIZA himself and he has proved it with this motion of distrust, which will also be rejected with praise in the vote on Sunday, when all of us, and the hundred and fifty-eight, united as a fist, will reject it because this is the best for both our country and for our democratic culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, too, for keeping time. I would like to invite Mr. Konstantinos Zachariadis from SYRIZA to take the floor. Here, Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I want us to start with the self-evident. After yesterday's reaction, I don't know if Mr. Gerapetritis feels something like a prince or a duke. However, it must not forget that it is Minister in the Hellenic Republic and it is not a concession, but it is an obligation that he does not have a free weekend, that he does not have a free evening. The work of the Prime Minister himself is not to look high at the House and with arrogance and arrogance to judge the initiatives of counter-population, but to be here and to speak to the House and to the people. And we bring them here, they lose weekends, they hear criticism and they give answers. Mr Besiropoulos, I was very impressed by Mr Stakoura's reference to the performance of the economy in 2019. Let's just go see what happened in 2019. First quarter with government SYRIZA: growth +1.3%. Second quarter with SYRIZA government: growth + 2.8%. Third quarter to seven days government SYRIZA and eighty three days government of New Democracy, with a climate apparently influenced by the rule of SYRIZA: + 2.3%. Fourth quarter with the Government of New Democracy: -1%. So, Mr. Besyropoulou, it came 1.9% growth, so the country's recovery began! You brought the recession from the fourth quarter of 2019. They were always: recession, unemployment, social equality, social analgesia. And the Minister comes here and moves the evidence as a success in 2019. Good thing you recognize it. Let's go see where today's story begins with the bill and the motion of censure. Adonis Georgiadis, 2 February 2020: “Protecting absolute the first residence is not in any advanced economy nor should there be any. It is damage to the economy to exist." A few days ago Mr. Georgiadis again said: "We will break our hearts with those who do not enter into regulation until April 2020". So here's why we make a proposal of distrust, to unravel you, so that the Greek people know everything that happens to him with your miserable policy. This bill had not even imagined the most ruthless memorial. Of course for you that the Memorandum is a blessing and you say that, even if we had not been imposed, we had to invent it on our own, that does not say anything. But the people must know that you deceived him, they must know that the middle class, in whose name you won the elections, that in the 'citizens' or bank dilemma', 'communities or bank','medium or bank','medium-sized entrepreneurship or bank', you replied: Bank, bank, bank. You chose the banks. And then you come here and you lie. How many auctions, he says, became on SYRIZA and how many on New Democracy. Apart from the fact that many of the numbers you say are fake, you confuse auctions of a second, third, fourth home or other assets with first home auctions. Two days we have a conversation. Bring here first home auctions made on SYRIZA, with debt identification. If you have the guts, read them at the National Representation, let the Greek people hear it. You don't bring them, you won't bring them, because you were just saying and lying. What's the truth? That the Tsipras government battled, negotiated, protected the first residence of the small and medium-sized to 240 000 euros. Katseli - Statatiki is the proof. You give it all to the funds without any protection. People are watching, they know, and they're watching, and they understand you. As he has unfortunately understood, with fear, anxiety and anger, the absolute failure to manage the pandemic. Where did the Prime Minister's compost finally go on 20 April, which from this Stepma said: What would happen to the pandemic if I did not govern? What happened to that statement? You've vented the health advantage that we all built together in a few months. The explosion of the incidents from mid-August to the current negative record was not legality and unfortunately is not random. The government failed to manage the second wave of pandemic. The contradictions and revolts in its decisions, its criminal indifference in the openness of tourism, third-world images in public transport, school classes and the deterioration of the scientific committee's proposals with purely political criteria cannot be concealed behind the targeting of citizens, as the government cannot hide that the second wave finds the country unprepared despite the sacrifices of the citizens and the two-month lockdown. All these months, Mr. Mitsotakis has denied permanent recruitment to the ESS and free mass tests. Mr Petsas did not come to state a few days ago that "if we had heard SYRIZA about the ICM, we would have thrown tens of millions of euros". So the government has to stop playing with public health and deal only with the communication management of the ball that it has created, every day looking for a small minority irresponsible to move the finger to all citizens. The government's responsibilities are not hidden. Finally, we are very concerned about what is happening in Euro-Turkish and Greek-Turkish. Turkey is unscrupulously involved in every fuss made in the wider neighborhood: Libya, Syria, Azerbaijan - Armenia, Eastern Mediterranean. Nobody sets terms, limits and rules. International law is also rampant with it and the prospect of stability and peace in our region. Unfortunately, we have probably entered a new period when calm and smoothness will be the exception and challenges and aggression will be the norm. We want International Law to win in the area. We want peace. That is why we have tried to contribute positively to foreign policy issues, without screaming, without populism, without micro-group micro-practices that we have claimed as government in foreign policy. The government now needs to change its tactics, it must now change its strategy, immediately convene a Council of Political Heads, in order to form a single national line that supports both Greece and Greece without civilisations, and above all internationally. National is the truth. National is to recognise the country's potential, its risks and its alliances. National is to understand that our neighborhood is constantly changing, becoming more difficult, more fluid, more nervous. For all these reasons, therefore, we have tabled a motion of censure, because you are bringing barbarism, because you are bringing hard poverty and a great redistribution of wealth in favour of the very powerful, because it is a sign that you are beginning to lose the confidence of society. As much as you don't see it here the moment is the beginning of your political ending.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr. Zachariadis. I call to Stepma the MEP of the Greek Solution, Mr. Antonio Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, while following colleagues' speeches today, I really am ashamed to tell you that I am ashamed. I am ashamed to be in a room where SYRIZA and New Democracy are trying to justify unjustified. You've led to society going bankrupt. Minister, I tell you where you are a man who you are working, you have worked in your life: You know, coming here and talking about New Democracy, the Change Movement - PASOK and SYRIZA about who has made more or less auctions in the property of the Greeks at least is shameful. You have tabled a motion of censure to the Minister for Finance, Mr Stakoura. Didn't you know that motion of censure would fall into the void? Didn't you know Mr. Stavros didn't do anything alone? Don't you know that the financial staff belong to a government hard neoliberal, which follows your footsteps, the hard neoliberal, as we've lived in your day? We need to put things down and talk to the Greek people as the people want and as they should. You know, I think of our grandparents, our fathers, who built this country after World War II, with sweat, pain and blood, raised their families, built their homes, made their tiles. And you come all of a sudden, after you have made the Greek society poor, now put the coffin in, close the lid and bury it. Because, Minister, you know very well that he will not stay after Monday's debate that will enter the bill, the bankruptcy code - Second chance and fairy tales of Chalima, a housewife, yesterday's housewife who will not lose his property. He'll lose his house, owe and be from the owner of the house a man who won't have a bed head. You know that very well. Mr. Stavros came and made an account. What's that account? Is that what we're talking about today? Is that what the bankruptcy code says? Does it have anything to do with reducing HISBIA? Is that the problem? The problem is the overdue households. I'll tell you something, Minister. Today my partner went to get from a bank - in particular from Eurobank - after a customer completed his loan and paid it, ownership. Do you know where this ownership was found? In a fund that is in the Cayman Islands and the bank of course with an e-mail brings it back. And the loan wasn't red. Now think about how many people there are who don't know where his loan is. The loans have now left Greece and you know that very well. They have gone to funds, which were found either in England with English law or in the Cayman Islands to offshore companies. That's the situation today. Let's see what we had. We had a law of Katselis, which from 2010 until today kept all households. We are not talking about small and medium-sized enterprises. Let's leave them because I don't have the time. But let's get the simple yesterday's housewife. The Katseli Act covered all types of housing loans, plus credit cards. This law, what was it like-- let's say that-- good? First, there were cases where this loan was ‘done’ by the court. The bankruptcy code contains no court. It's all done electronically. Monday enters the new bill. How are the trials going to be electronically now? I mean, a peacekeeper will sit in his office, take a man's file, see him in front of him knowing if he's poor, if he really tells him truth, he won't have any witnesses and make a decision. This man, who has paid a sum up to that day in his loan, will automatically be a tenant for twelve years, will pay rent and all that money he has paid for so many years will not be counted after twelve years that he will be a tenant, rather than he says he will find the money to buy his residence again. Who are you kidding? How is that going to happen? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me tell you something else, and I want to say it manually to the heart. The New Democracy, gentlemen, owes EUR 320 million in loans. Don't tell me they're being served. Last year, $32 million of interest was served by 10 million. The 22 were entered in the chapter, which is why they went to 320 million. Can you tell me, Minister, how many years will New Democracy cover the loan? And if it is after fifty years New Democracy with the same VET! And if he's in first place! How will the loan cover? So has PASOK, which has changed VET. You know that well. PASOK's 210 million, who's covering it? So many businessmen, Mr. Piladakis, from 140 million will pay 11 million. The simple Greek citizen, the Greek woman, this yesterday's housewife, why can't he do the same thing? I ask, and I say this to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Why should the New Democracy be able to pay off its loan in a hundred years and not do so by the ordinary Greek citizen? If he can't do the same, his child and his grandchildren, just like you do. What guarantee did the New Democracy and the parties in general make? So we see that we are bankrupt the world and SYRIZA submits a motion of censure, he says, that Staikoras should leave. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Don't leave Staruras, gentlemen of SYRIZA! You're making fun of the world. For the law of Katseli, the protection of the first residence you destroyed it in 2019 with the law that would apply, protect, and then, nothing. So, from you, the crime started, New Democracy took it, and it bankrupt the whole society now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u258	Finish, Mr. Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u259	Yes, Mr. President. I come to the last, which is very serious. I heard my friend, Mr. Yannis Loverdos, who is jealous, says, Mr. Stakoura, who united the New Democracy, the MPs. Bravo! Congratulations! Applaud a bankruptcy code, the bankruptcy of the Greek society, this crime! Death for Greek society! No pan-Hellenic channels played the issue. Coronovirus, coronary, coronary from morning to night and a little the national issue. You have brought, Minister, this law now in the midst of pandemic and national crisis. What for? Why don't the channels talk at all? No pan-Hellenic channel said that. Nothing happened. Greek society is bankrupt, people are dying. If he knew, if people knew right now what you're going to do to him, or he had to go out on the sidewalk or he had to kill himself. You're finishing him. And no TV station says anything. Only the PSE said something important last time we brought it here. The President, who is also in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, will remember that we had invoked the President of the PSE, Mr Kutrumanos, because he is not doing his job well. 'I can't, he says, 'to check the channels'. He can't control the channels. "I can't see the news releases." He can't make a zip in the morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u260	Mr. Mylonakis, it's 00:30 an hour!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u261	Yeah, for everything that doesn't suit you, we shouldn't be talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u262	Finish, Mr. Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u263	Calm down. All the PSE knows is within thirty days to control fifteen - twenty-three regional channels, small channels, to strike the President of the Greek Solution with 730,000 and come another 300,000 now with three other decisions, 1 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u264	And that's what you're closing up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u265	Yeah, that's what I'm gonna close. We must all understand this misery, which I do not want to think is invisible or the hand of the New Democracy. I don't want to think about that. I want to think that these people who take free money there cannot do their job, but they do it for a man who works, who tries to contact the party in the region, because we are not given any other opportunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u266	Mr President, what is this?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u267	However, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, you must understand that the Greek people will not forgive you. Where he dropped SYRIZA, he'll shoot you. And remember that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u268	Mr. Simopoulos, don't complain. You want to say something? Get up and say it. You should know that there are smaller parties that have two or three MPs in all the two hundred forty to speak. The Bureau must also have a special approach to answer. Nothing else I have to say. Don't think two minutes are harming someone. [[Applause from the wings of the Greek Solution and the Mera25]] Mrs Apajidis has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u269	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the motion of censure on the Minister of Finance, Mr Staikora. This process, however, began by interrupting the parliamentary debate on an extremely important and extremely disastrous draft law, the bankruptcy code. A bill, which will affect Greece and its citizens for at least the next decade, building hundreds of thousands of individual debt prisons, in which 81% of businesses and six hundred thousand households are at risk of being built up. It is a tombstone in the middle class and not just. And this tombstone did not accidentally come to the House, but it is the first bill of the fifth memorial coming to part - as Mr. Yanis Varoufakis pointed out. This bill, this unconstitutional bill, as showed by Mera25 on Thursday, the government tried to bury it, taking care of its almost zero presence in the media, on Mr. Petsa's lists. Because it is clear that, if citizens get even superficial information about what you are legislating, their reaction will be instantly and fierce. Of course, New Democracy doesn't build from scratch. It builds on the Memorandum of Management of Mr Tsipras and the Radical Left Coalition, whose Government thoroughly built the foundations and took care of the many first steps, mocking 'no house in the hands of a banker'. Today, then, SYRIZA raises a matter of parliamentary distrust with the Minister of Finance, who continues the work of Mr. Tsipras' government. In an amazing facilitation to the disastrous governance of the New Democracy and to this bill in particular, SYRIZA offered the opportunity for another distraction, so that the reality does not seem, that the fight of Officer Refugee with the government is exhausted to anyone who is better and more faithfully implementing the memorandum commitments, yesterday's but also those that are already here and that the New Democracy Government is attempting to zealously and efficiently, is the truth, to complete the disastrous work of the Memorandum Governments, including the SYRIZA Government and the framework for its auctions, undertaking to give the final hits. And how could it be done otherwise, since the parties and governments that are not aware of questioning the country's memorial course and its self-destruction are by definition condemned to the implementation of a single policy, the debt-court. Today's process is disorientative. Finally, it launders the legislative crime attempted by the New Democracy by bankruptcy law and blurs the water. For this is not the first time that Mr Tsipras' SYRIZA has loaded the terrible responsibilities of a government's choices to the Minister of Finance. This is not the first time that central government responsibility has been substituted for the person of the Minister of Finance at times for degrading self-destructive compromises made by the Prime Minister and sometimes, today, for the execution of the mandates contained in the one and one government programme that is embraced by the Government and the Civilian Opposition, i.e. the programme of already given and imported from the external Memorandum Policy at all levels. The Qualified Opposition puts forward a motion of distrust to the Minister of Finance, as if another Minister of Finance of the Government, Mitsotakis, would apply another, less destructive policy. But the Civic Opposition focuses on Mr. Stakoura's face, because it would be extremely uncomfortable to focus on his policy, which has its origins in the days of compromised SYRIZA and is now perfected. The bankruptcy law has two parents and let them be divorced, divided into two parties of monumental rotation in power, in New Democracy and in SYRIZA. The fights of the divorced political couple for the custody of their child, bankruptcy law and the fifth memorandum, which already takes shape, are not the primary concern of the Greek people. Merra25 is not interested in which of the governments implement this policy better or worse, because it can only be equally disastrous for the Greek people. Merra25 is interested in one single thing, in bringing the alternative to this policy, in a proposal for governance of the country that will not condemn the people in ever worse, increasingly terrible debt prisons, and in guaranteeing the possibility of this policy being implemented. SYRIZA and his leadership may be happy, embodiing the role of Officer Response, taking over the role of the prosecutor within an informal and single governmental coalition for implementing the same policy. But our role as Mera25 is to strip this theatre and guarantee the realistic alternative to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, too, for the time economy. I would ask that the Step be prepared and that I call on the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Christos Boukoro, to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to make two - three comments on the last ones heard. Of course, I do not want to concentrate on the representatives of the small parties, nor do I want to respond, because small parties, although small parties and election power, have a way of proposing solutions for everything. But sometimes, you know, small parties happen to become SYRIZA and then they are revealed. They are revealed by acts and omissions, through government policy, dear colleague. But you will allow me, Mr President, to comment on SYRIZA's last colleague, who has not even said very much that the advantage of the first wave of the pandemic has been built together, but that the second wave of the pandemic builds it itself by the government. This is not a responsible political behaviour, it is not a responsible attitude. In any case, without expressing any kind of satisfaction, the country's position, compared to other European countries, is good at this time at the forefront of pandemic, and if we shout a little more, we are shouting to keep this position from getting worse. Remember that. From there on, in order to go to the motion of censure, I will also disagree with many colleagues from my group. I do not believe that there are good and bad people in politics, not good and bad legislation in this regard, and in this regard, for the bankruptcy code, I believe that we can indeed identify the deep ideological differences that separate us from the SYRIZA. What did SYRIZA do? Has he solved the problem of protecting first residence? Is the private debt problem solved? We have heard here this evening, in this Chamber, saying that only 20% of private debt has increased in the four and a half years of SYRIZA. And is there a slight increase of 20% of private debt in four years? Is it a bit? The private debt in Greece is a story that still goes back in the 1990s. Is it a little more than 20 percent higher in four years? Did SYRIZA deal with the problem? Oh, no. In February 2019, we had a lifting of protection of the first residence with some falsifications. Because it is your ideology, ladies and gentlemen, to have them indebted, indebted, kneeled, weak. We don't have many industrial workers today. We must have another kind of proletariat, which the party indeligencies will guide and give allowances and a few euros, which is indeed necessary for shopping in the market. But what is the future and what is the social mobility of these people? Your officials, like the former Minister of Finance - he was here, he's gone - say "it's not high tax in Greece". He said it. Another official had said to you: "You are not the owner of the business, when a person has a shop, you are not a businessman". You said that, you criminalize entrepreneurship. This is our difference, why, what do we do and the bill that has been called for in the motion of censure? We're giving a second chance, debiting debts, starting for the free professional who today can't take a breath and saves just the money of the irresponsible account. And every euro that comes into his account is confiscated. Because you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, have made two and a half million automatic bank accounts, up to 300 euros from weak people! Why don't you tell me that there are two and a half million strategic malpractices in Greece, don't tell me that there are two and a half million capitalists in Greece. And yet, you managed to make two and a half million bank accounts. In other words, you criminalize the economic activity of man. And you did not protect the first residence, because if you had protected it, if you had finally solved the matter, we would in no way need today's law, although mainly concerning private debt, this law, in order to come to an agreement in this Chamber. For the first residence, then, you have done absolutely nothing. You did not remove any burden from the high-priced Greek households, which is why private debts went out and increased the high-priced households. We say today that the property, which you have promised, is not your property and prevents you from taking the next step and that the liquidation of your debts closes and you can make a new start. And your house, when you don't have a burden 12 years and you're not afraid to confiscate you the next euro, you can call it again if you start again and do a first and second job and don't be afraid of the tomb crackdown on the bank accounts. And you can start your shop and your business all over again. We are not criminalising economic activity, we are not criminalising entrepreneurship under any circumstances, nor are all the small and large businessmen. And failure is in the program. It's about the state giving the opportunity for a new start. We do not want a majority of miserable and highly indebted, to have a political audience to which we will address and play 'fathers'. We want to give new opportunities. And despite the difficult circumstances, when they stay behind, we will do this and allow the Greek people to progress, progress, take the next step of social mobility, not be captive under the burden of his debts. The main aim of this bill is to do so. However, I also understand the reasons for this motion of censure. It's an unfortunate juncture. And, of course, it's not just unfortunate. SYRIZA's agony is also betrayed. Inner-party stabbing, comrade stabbing, multilingualism, Babel, polling in nadir. It attempts to flee ahead, but without any objective, because today the SYRIZA policy and the specific issues, which were disastrous, have come to the fore. No burden has been removed from the Greek people. On the contrary, SYRIZA's policy added burdens. So we tell you very well that the Greek people remembers both two and a half million seizures of accounts, remembers also the underdevelopment, remembers that you have thrown the government in cooperation with political forces you are condemning today, with those you voted on in the referendum, with those you tried to change the electoral law together and today you say that you sent them to prison, and you could not do a single court room for the trial to take place. The Greek people know that. He knows us. He knows under what conditions you govern and under what conditions Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy rule. We are ruling in the middle of a pandemic with a global footprint in the world and in the Greek economy, governing the time that Erdogan's aggression and provocativeness have exceeded every limit. And right now, SYRIZA is choosing to burglize the inner front, which is necessary to be sloppy. To conclude, the motion of censure is to prove that Civic Opposition lies in an absolute dead end. Of course, the government has many difficulties and we must also see the banks' compliance with the bill, the continuation of which will be on Monday, where it will ultimately be voted on. So we must also see the compliance of the banks - because, indeed, the banks do not always listen - to the bill, to the extrajudicial compromise and to leave behind the difficulties of this time, so that the Greek people and the Greek citizen can see more optimistic about the future. Because as long as the debt stays on his back, he can't take a single step forward. Debt draws him back. That is what we are trying to lift with the bill, for which you have chosen to table a motion of censure. The distrust, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response, returns to the realm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u272	Mr Nikolaos Syrizas, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, Mr. Boukoro, in fact the conditions governing SYRIZA were "with the pistol on the front" and with a suffocating control of the lenders who had imposed on us this Memorandum Plunder for eight and a half years, as with you before and in the Change Movement. We had to make this compromise that we made in the summer of 2015. You are now ruling without a budgetary stability pact, with no surplus obligations for 2020 and 2021.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u274	Because of pandemic!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u275	Of course, it's a pandemic. That's right. The pandemic, however, depends on how everyone handles it, not on making it an opportunity to pass on the anti-grass and anti-social policies we want. So we tabled the motion of censure, which was neither untimely nor irresponsible. On the other hand, the motion of censure has come to respond to a cynical, irreversible policy, which, in the context of a threefold crisis - health, economic and national - the New Democracy Government has come to destroy hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized people and natural persons, who are forced to go bankrupt and assimilate them to businesses. In fact, not only do you have bankruptcy status, which means the liquidation of mobile and immovable property in order to lose what they have and do not have, but they will also lose their homes after a dozen years of concession and a rental obligation to the repo operator - I do not remember exactly what it is called, to a private body - because in order to be able after the vulnerable debtor to take their home, they will have to pay the commercial value after twelve years, having been cancelled and not counting all the sums paid and before entering this 12-year rental period, as well as the rents it has given. And because you are passing out and Mr Stavros and other ministers say, "We will also give a rent subsidy", the rental subsidy is based on - and the article itself says - on a law of SYRIZA 2017, where we had done this legislation precisely to help those layers that need support so that they can pay their rent. And they got an important allowance for this rent. That's what you're talking about. This is not your job to do. So you are now definitively abolishing the protection of the first residence, and you are accusing us that SYRIZA has definitively abolished the first residence. What can I tell you? Can I tell you that when in 2014 when you handed over the government of Samara - Venizelou to our government, was there absolutely no protection framework? What can I tell you? Don't you know there was after the Stathakis law, which turned the Katselis law, which protected the first residence? Do you not know the laws 4512 and 4605/2019, which we have just established, to protect the first residence and find solutions? In any case, the commitments made by each government are well known. The commitments we made were to find a comprehensive solution within the framework of a negotiation with the institutions, and your commitments were not to find a holistic solution, but to permanently abolish the first residence. You talked about twenty-five thousand auctions. There were twenty - five thousand auctions. So I challenge you to tell us how many of them were of the first home of a people’s family. And we have said this repeatedly: bring us names, elements and region. When was the auctioning of the first residence of a people's family? You don't have any evidence to bring us here, so you don't. Do you know what your undoubted goal, gentlemen of the New Democracy Government is? Your undoubted goal is to restructure the Greek economy and society by the death of the merchant and the disappearance of the small, vulnerable property. And all the legislation that you have voted for so far favours those who have and possess, the powerful, and on the contrary destroys the vulnerable and the weak. Do you want me to give you examples? For the ENPI - which you are taking on board that you have brought down - we had taken the first step and you have taken a further step, including the values of more than 1 million. So who did you favour? Did you favour the mighty, yes or no? The reduction in tax rates from 28% to 24% in legal persons is a level playing field. The stronger ones are more favoured, and weaker ones are more favoured. Development law. Yesterday there was also a tweet by Mr Kastanidis from the Change Movement, who said that the funding of large businesses was increased by 9.2% on your day, while, on the contrary, the funding for the weakest businesses fell by 0.5%. And can I tell you something else? Even in the retrospectives of pensioners, you have favoured those who have received more than EUR 1 000 principal and supplementary pension. You have favoured them, the most powerful in all pensioners. It is therefore a conscious choice to restructure the Greek economy and society. And this conscious choice is exactly how you implement it to antenna. At the same time, of course, you are dismantling labour relations. The labour costs have gone to EUR 534 a month and this will be established by suspending work through the procedures you have followed. The collective agreements disappear by successive laws of Mr Brutsi and then a new employment law is followed wherever it may be, which will indeed appear to be the final elimination of labour rights. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr Stagiras says that in these critical months he has strengthened the economy, society and the national health system. However, Mr Stagioras himself confessed today and yesterday, Mr. Skylakakis, that fiscal freedom does not allow permanent measures to be covered. What does that mean? Does that mean we can't get permanent doctors to the U.S. in hospitals? Does it mean that we can't equip and serve the ICUs so that they can actually function as an ICU and not just inaugurate beds without the proper staff as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u276	But finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u277	I shall conclude, Mr President. And while you are not taking permanent measures to support society, you are accusing us of being the government of taxes, of auctions, by disclosing the absolute commitments and strangulation that the country had suffered during the memoranda. You compare apples with oranges. There is no comparison of the times you live today without commitments, without budgetary stability, with what the Greek people have lived and lived for all these years. That is why we need a change of course in the country and all democratic forces must be united, so that this change of course really takes place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u278	I should like to call the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Michael Papadopoulos. Here you go, Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u279	Mr President, we have said that SYRIZA is becoming a small party, but do not start giving SYRIZA more time now. It'll happen, but slowly. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, say - say, you will finally believe what you are saying. It would be nice to be a little more careful, because you'll also convince yourself of what you haven't done. In today's debate, Mr President, it is useful to remember just one of the previous times that SYRIZA had a similar motion of censure. It was an unfortunate moment and it's also a moment of irony for Mr. Tsipras. Because in a previous case - I remember now - in 2013 he had the chance to participate with him in the vote and the Members of the Golden Dawn. Today, however, they are missing to support him. They're gone to do what they did back then. And they are missing because, on the one hand, the Greek people have, on the other hand, put them on the margin, because the great liberal centre-right party has sent them to justice, which has been blocking them over the last four and a half years. Justice sent the guilty ones to prison. The irony of the case lies in the fact that, in that motion of censure, the SYRIZA's reasoning said: "We are making a motion of distrust against the government over the continuing violations of democratic legitimacy and the unfavourable economic position in which the Greek society has arrived". After four and a half years of governance of the SYRIZA government of the most nationally injurious country in debt, which has dealt with institutions and justice as a clear vine, which has highlighted the political lie to a protagonist of political life, Mr. Tsipras is resurrecting today the dance of extreme polarization, a polarisation within national critical days. Threats of the press are being launched: "We will not let you demolish the protection of the first home, go bankrupt Greeks as thieves." That's what you're saying. Who are thieves, gentlemen of SYRIZA? Who are the thieves, Mr. Tsipras? Who won't let go, who? And how, Chief of Officer County, do you think that's gonna happen? Ladies and gentlemen, if it was a spoiled student, I would hope that it can be improved, Madam Secretary of Education, and that it can change. This is an adult who ruled the country, marking it indelibly with bad decisions. Trying today to get away from an inner-party misery and stabbing that occurs in your space, chooses extreme polarization and conflict. While Greece is being vigilant about defending national laws from Turkish expansion and confrontation, while Greece is being vigilant with the most serious economic crisis to safeguard the health of its citizens from the nightmareing pandemic, at this time the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is bringing to the vote a comprehensive regulation of private debt, which improves in the debate on the committees enough - you have watched it, in order to face a good structural problem and a dead end for thousands of our fellow citizens and entrepreneurs, giving a second chance to those who are today with the backs on the wall, so that they can better regulate the debts that have accumulated either they are drowning or excluded from the market. Minister Stagioras with the new Banking Code puts his personal stamp on a major reform, whether or not he likes it - that is the truth - in a reform that turns the state from punishment to support for citizens. In other words, exactly the opposite of what the SYRIZA government did five years ago. He hid the problem under the carpet, because we must not forget what happened in February 2019, it has been said many times, but I will say it. The protection of the first home was abolished in contrast to the announcements made by Mr Tsipras that "no auction" on the part of the Government. We've seen how many of them happened and what happened. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to vote against the motion of censure. And if some of you still have any seriousness for the Chief of Police, I'll tell you one thing. Two days ago Mr. Tsipras in the middle of a lockdown was in Kozani with a couple of twenty fellows. It proved once again that it still maintains its basic characteristics of populism, lack of seriousness, lack of arguments. So he visited the city, allegedly showing a certain interest in the health problems of the region. After making statements later, he talked to the institutions, with the hospital. Ladies and gentlemen, the mockery has a limit, it's over, it can't go on. In fact, I'm going to make a nice reminder to Mr. Tsipras. On 25-7-2018 the Minister of Health signed an extension study of the Kozani Hospital for 3 million. After three days, he cancels and signs another 1 million. The work was never done, of course, and you know it very well because it was not done. On this side, the Government of New Democracy signed a study and construction of 16 million and the next few days the tendering of the project is announced. That's politics. That's what New Democracy is trying to do. And I don't want to get into the logic of liberation and how the SYRIZA executives have handled, but Mr. Tsipras himself so far, because I want to be consistent in time and not to tire you any more. I will end by repeating the phrase of the Minister of Finance, Christos Stakoura: we thank SYRIZA very much for this motion of distrust, because it demonstrates once again how naked, populist and false you are. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u280	And we thank Mr. Papadopoulos. Mr. Georgios Kamine has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, it is only the fourth time in the relocation tabled by a motion of censure against a minister and not against the entire government. And this is awkward, because this is a bill which is not just Mr Stakoura's work, but it is from the beginning to the end a task of the entire government. Whether it is a manoeuvre, Mr Tsipras, which we do not understand or are a manifest error, because he does nothing but rally the New Democracy. However, this is a process that is both out of place and out of time. It may be assembled by some party audiences, but at the same time it leaves most of society indifferent. Because we have, ladies and gentlemen, an outbreak of pandemic, thousands of cases, a health system that touches the limits of its strength, business on the brink of closure and a society whose strengths have been reduced at a time when it seems the recession will reach a two-digit rate this year. The government has not accepted any real dialogue. He rejected the proposal of the Change Movement to establish a Intergroup Committee and was not even a legislator. All the production bodies, which in theory benefited from the legislation, expressed disagreements. And those for whom it is not supposed to help them, that is, banks and funds, agree. A year or more from the elections not only has the government not created a development shock in the economy, but the country has been plunged into crisis again. It is indicative that only eighteen thousand five hundred enterprises in a total of seven hundred ten thousand were financed by the Business Fund and by the Guarantee Fund of the Greek Development Bank. Almost a third of this funding went to businesses with more than 50 million euros. These enterprises are only 1.3% of those borrowed. At the same time, the country is borrowing at a rate of only over 1%, while the majority of seven hundred ten thousand Greek businesses dare not even pass outside the banks. Here is a question of democracy, because banks over the years have been pondered with taxpayers' money and credit commitments, and they are not allowed today to return this support to society and to read in newspapers that there are even 90% of them being cuts in the order even in a few and selected ones. It is clear that the government is walking without a plan and in the areas in which I have a responsibility this becomes more and more evident day after day. The final state cannot currently find the essential number two of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Poppa. Where's Mr. Pappas? This is a matter of prestige for the Greek Police, it is a heavy blow to our democracy that this man has escaped. In the refugee fire in Moria revealed that thousands of people had left Lesvos in an earlier, unknown time without approval, but the costs of feeding continued normally. It's scandalous and administrative and economic. And today, with a question I have tabled, I reveal another NGO scandal which is financed with EUR 1.2 million, an NGO that emerged from nowhere from an self-government party supported by New Democracy in the Municipality of Saint Demetrius. He had headed as a legitimate civil non-profit corporation a main right-wing company, passed through Mr. Samaras' office, then went headed by Mr. Failos Kranidiot's press office. Today he's in another extreme right party. And the company that founded this man with obide transformations appears in NGOs that are funded for the refugee's 'ESTIA' programme. Mr. Stavros has committed a great slip. He said that PASOK put the country in the memorials, as if he had a fundamental crisis in that country, he did not know that the crisis brought the memorials and, in particular, the crisis created by the New Democracy, Mr Stakoura's party. In the period 2004-2009, Mr Karamanlis received a debt of 193 billion and handed it over 301 billion in three years. I will not forget at the beginning of 2009 where they talked to us about a deficit of 2% and finally came out of 15%, when the country became a ravage all over the world. But is Mr. Stakoras conscious of whom you address? Everyone is now talking about the law of Katseli, when SYRIZA himself lasted for so many years and then voted against it, and we all hear it today. The work of the government of Papandreou is wrong when we talk about the law of Katseli or the law of Ragosi, about the "DENMARK" or the law of Loverdus, about the e-prescription or the Prosecutor of Corruption as the law of Papaconstantinou, etc.. It was the laws of the government of George Papandreou, who once had to recognize her offer in the country, when the opposition parties were in the squares with the indignant ones and when their leaders then signed each other successively after the other memorials. Today, then, we have to reassert politics, start with the basics. The first of all is the truth, the historical truth, the historical self-awareness to have a long-term planning and national understanding on the big issues. That is why we have also called for the Council of Political Heads to convene. But for the opposition it seems that the problem is Mr Stagiras. For us, the problem is the overall government policy, because they now seem to be the deadlocks as much as the government and the media, which abundantly try to excite them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr. Kamin. I will call to Stepma the Member of the New Democracy, Mr. Strato Simopoulos. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start my intervention on psychiatric terms that I'll bring them back to politics. I listened very carefully and for a long time to many SYRIZA colleagues and wondered if they believed what they were saying. I concluded that they believe and believe all of this, which they were telling us, has actually proved to have created a false environment. This in psychiatry is called a pseudo environment. They believe that bankers are coming horses along with New Democracy, MPs and executives to take homes from the world and they as Robin Hood are here to prevent this phenomenon. In psychiatry there is always action and reaction. You know, they act in a false environment, but the real environment reacts to them. And the real environment is the citizens who have brought the New Democracy today in a popular fashion more powerful than it was in the July elections and the SYRIZA struggling to maintain 20%. I was also thinking about what my colleagues from New Democracy have said and I shall disagree with them. I will disagree because it is perfectly understandable that SYRIZA's motion of censure has been made. But, in the person of the Minister of Finance, a political government is actually represented, which has reduced taxes and contributions for a year and a year, a policy that is completely contrary to SYRIZA's policy. So it makes sense there to make the motion of censure. Continuing in the same direction make a motion of censure on the grounds of bankruptcy, a bankruptcy law that both companies and households need. Today, both businesses and households are hostages, and this hostage is called upon by this government, the Minister concerned and the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis to catalyse. Because, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, we need simplification of procedures. Yes, and this simplification, even through the pacifist courts, will release the households, because the households are hostages, because the households are declaring the inheritances, because even someone has a problem with their children. And what the government has not shown, which is very important, is that within this process the debts to the public are also borne by the public. Yes, it is also freed from public debts and private and professional and ordinary citizens, because we have many examples of people who want a second chance and yet they are unable to get this famous tax or insurance information. We're giving these people a solution. Also - we were all talking about it, you said it - there are rich ex-businesses with poor business. This draft law, this bankruptcy code, too, gives a solution to this big issue, because there will be full transparency in the assets of all those who intend to go bankrupt. As far as the first residence is concerned, yes, there is no protection, we have to admit it. Also, you, colleagues from SYRIZA, brought the funds and you in 2016 gave priority to claims made by banks against the government, your government did so. The funds, which you blame for being able to take the citizens' homes, you brought them to Greece. You resort to a disaster by saying many times, I will say, untrue things. Here, your rapporteur told us that in the extrajudicial compromise the lawyer is appointed by the bank. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In fact, the lawyer is obliged in one year to finish, because we have had many cases of businessmen who were also hostages. For the first place, I will say that what the government brings is a solution. The problem needs to be solved. There was no solution. And it brings this particular one, which I will tell the current State Secretary that - I imagine it is not a Bible - the government, as is done in all the bills, is adapting to the field, to the needs arising from the field and making some changes. I would suggest that you see now or at a next stage, for example, capital - not interest - paid out before someone lost his first residence, so that after twelve years it could be deducted from the price that he would have at that time. I'm talking about capital. I would also suggest that he see, because, as I said, it is not a Bible, is it not the three months, which he contains as time after which the eviction can go forward, to be six. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u284	And we thank Mr. Simopoulos and invite Mr. Vasilis Kokkalis to the Step. Here, Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, at the time when the Greek people are feeling very insecurity because of the coronary crisis, at the time when the labour rights have collapsed, at the time when unemployment has been high, but also at the time when Turkey has increased the challenges dangerously and urgently needs an unreasonable national front, at this time the government has chosen and chose to bring a bill, the so-called bankruptcy bill, according to which it is forced to go bankrupt with the Greek people. I have listened very carefully to the speakers from the governmental majority, but also to the ministers. Unfortunately, I have not heard any arguments that justify and really support the bill, because this bill is good. On the contrary, I have heard many arguments, such as statements by former government officials, that have spoken about auctions. I have also heard of failed attempts to regulate loans. As you know, a bill, when the government brings it, we must document it and prove whether it really benefits society. We have to answer the questions: is the first residence protected by this bill? Yes or no? I'll come to what happened in the past. Mr Simopoulos said so too. The truth is, it's not protected. You will allow me to make a comment. There is no possibility of protection, not protection. I repeat: the possibility. It's very important. From there on, I will tell you in a few minutes why your argument that the arrangements that have been made in the past have failed is not a convincing argument. I will present my experience from the Ministry of Rural Development on the arrangements for agricultural loans. We had agreed on a number of arrangements, according to which all interests were deleted, either accounting or ex-accounting. Also, there was a deletion of up to 40% in the capital, because it was agreed to pay the borrower not his debt, but the value of his property. You know how many. have they been subject to this programme? Four, not thousands. Three are the possible scenarios: firstly, that the specific regulations had not been known in the rural world and I should like to say that the Bank of Greece has put back on these arrangements. The first scenario is that these arrangements, the very favourable ones, had not been made in the rural world. Mr Zavos said a few months ago from the Step of the House that these were real arrangements that had been agreed for the first time. Second scenario, second explanation is that they did not have any money, that the borrowers could not afford. And the third scenario is that they had, but they didn't want to pay, that is to say, they were strategic bad payers. It appears from the bill, which you have tabled, that you have chosen the third scenario, and that is due, on the one hand, to approach overcompensation - to protect the natural person and, on the other, to collect the creditor, not the ones due to him years ago, but the ones that he really has to collect. This is a fair and sustainable solution to overcompensation. Ladies and gentlemen, you have chosen another route with forced bankruptcy in the bill and completely lacking the possibility of protecting the first home. And to say, in February 2019, the law Katseli was replaced by Law No.4605/2019. This law provided for the possibility - I repeat - of protecting the first residence. So it is a lie that sounds like the possibility of protecting first residence has been abolished. The strategic poor payers have simply been cut down. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I think that this bill, if applied, will be the beginning of your government's political end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, too. And we continue with Mr. Kingdom - Peter Spanaki from New Democracy. Here, Mr Spankee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u287	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today our Parliament is experiencing unforgettable moments, since it will be written in the history of this Parliament that Critical Opposition, namely the President of the SYRIZA Parliament is raising a question of distrust, making a motion of censure with the Minister of Finance because it introduces a bill of innovatory with favourable regulations for debtors. This movement of Officership has elements of political irresponsibility. It is clearly an act of political irresponsibility the proposal of distrust to the Minister of Finance, but at the same time it reveals the political fall of the SYRIZA seeking audience to speak and stand. If Mr Tsipras and those of the SYRIZA executives who had the obvious idea that with the motion of distrust SYRIZA will survive and will find an audience, they are indeed all politically nightd. You're, gentlemen of SYRIZA, deeply politically late. Day after day with your moves, with your political speech you return to real, low rates. The Prime Minister has told you from this step that we will not have elections. So don't worry and don't make moves that really make it hard. But you do not have the problems of the Greek people, the problems of everyday life. Priority has been given to you, they have and will only have moves to your political survival. You showed this before the elections of 7 July 2019 with your bishop speech, speaking of many and few. You showed it, but also in the 2015 elections with the "or end them or end us". And now what are you coming to tell us, Mr. Tsipras and ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? Who are you going to make fun of? Do you want to speak in this Chamber with numbers and facts? Yeah, let's talk. Go out and tell the Greek people that you brought three championships to Greece. Can I remind you? You brought the championship of electronic auctions, because for your days twenty-five thousand six hundred seventy-two electronic auctions have arrived. You brought another negative record, the record of legacy deportations, where now heirs - on your day - did not want them to inherit, and we had a record of legacy censorship, but we also had a record of confiscations. That's all for days, SYRIZA. Go out and tell the Greek people, Mr Tsipras, that for the past 50 months you have not allowed Greek debtors to have a favourable and human arrangement, according to their financial possibilities. Go out and tell the Greek people, gentlemen of SYRIZA, that at least two years of economic policy, you've been an example of avoiding economic policy, when in times of recession you've brought taxes to an increase, because that's the truth. Go out and tell the Greek people that you have made fun of a series of public and private workers. You've made fun of their new workers! Go out and tell the Greek people clearly that your policy involved a smuggling against thousands of pensioners. The Greek people do not forget the law of Katrugalos, the abolition of the EKE, the increase of the objective values even in people's neighbourhoods, the insecurity that each Greek household felt and the issues of public order. That was your policy. This has been your government policy for four and a half years, a policy of defiance, false promises, a sketching of the memorials and exodus. And that's what you did then, and that's what you're doing now as a Civic Opposition, tactical and impressive moves. You have no sense of your institutional role. But we were judged by the Greek people. On 7 July 2019, we received a strong popular mandate. You have tabled a motion of censure, because you are concerned about what we are bringing with our bill. What other Greek Government - and please answer - has brought a holistic, comprehensive, effective, effective, reformative solution to the debt problems of natural and legal persons? What government has brought in this Parliament to regulate up to two hundred forty instalments? And I invite you to answer. Answer me! Let Mrs Papanatsiou and Mr Alexiadis and Mr Tsakalotos reply, but also Mrs Ahtsioglou. Don't you want the citizens to have a second chance? Do you not want to serve the interest of the Greek people? Do you serve any other interests? Do you not want to end the suffering of taxpayers from Greek, natural and legal persons in a fair, fast, simple way? So, are you worried about us and we are not the party that forty-six years tell the truth to the Greek people? Since its establishment, the New Democracy party has been telling the truth. And you come to throw mud at the Minister of Finance, at the same time that we give battles for the economy, battles for the strengthening of work, battles inside, battles abroad, battles everywhere, at the same time that we lift up the Greek flag for the interests of our country and the new generation. Is that finally the education of the Left? Are these the values and principles of the Left? Finally this is the Left, Mr. Tsipras, but with us the Greek people understood it. And allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say, Mr President, your tolerance - because we are talking about the motion of censure tabled by SYRIZA to the Minister of Finance for an abortion bill, as they have described it, to mention in summary, Mr President - and it is worth hearing in this Chamber - what we are bringing about with the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u288	No, Mr. Spankee, look at the watch! Finish in this minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr President. Permanent programme of protection of the first home, extrajudicial mechanism up to two hundred forty instalments, state grant of loans for first homes and vulnerable households, establishment of a private body to buy the first home of vulnerable households. The State, too, will provide rent benefits. In short, no households have been unleashed, there will be a complete deletion of all debts of all debtors, since they have proved unable to pay and their debt is unsustainable, providing a second chance through the process of reopening the debtor, with an emphasis on the process that ensures that the second opportunity is given only to honest debtors. It remains the inconsistency of 1,250 euros. We have voted to suspend auctions, to suspend auctions for one year in all areas affected by 'January'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u290	Finish, Mr. Spaniard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u291	For a month now, the government - I conclude, Mr President - has made an agreement with banks and loan managers, with which all vulnerable households are suspended.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u292	All right, Mr. Spankee, you're ending up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u293	In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that I am proud to serve this party, which supports this New Democracy Government, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Even now that you're making noises and you don't respect citizens or your institutional role...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u294	We must respect both time and time, Mr Spanaki, please warmly!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u295	I call on the Chamber and all parties not to vote on SYRIZA's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u296	We continue with the Vice-President of Parliament and MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Georgios Lambroulis. Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr President. The JRC overall rejects the anti-population policy of both the New Democracy Government and the policy over time of all previous governments condemning the people of poverty, impoverishment and permanent bankruptcy. Because the crime against the people promoted and with the Bankruptcy Code has the seal of the European Union, the Government of New Democracy, as well as all previous governments, with the SYRIZA now coming out on the tiles. This is the same time-consuming class policy that breaks down the rights of our people, robs its incomes and assets, in order to banks, business groups, the urban state itself in front of their super-government debts, and, of course, to save the profits of banks and business groups. Therefore, the real dilemma for our people that shows up and the new bankruptcy code is whether to accept to live in permanent bankruptcy to multiply the profits of capital or to strengthen his struggle to take real breaths, to cross the flag counterattack of his own needs. Because, for example, the cause of red loans lies in the policy of all of you, New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK, is in the system you serve and that forced the people's strata to resort to banking in order to secure a home. And after you have all been smuggled, in the name of the capitalist crisis, with the management policy for business groups, employees, retired, self-employed, small businessmen, and led them to red loans, what do you tell them? That it is individual responsibility, precisely the same argument that from the beginning of pandemic you are using to hide all your time-consuming responsibilities for the smashing of the public health system, the result of the anti-grass policy followed by all governments, whether neoliberal, either social-democratic or so-called left-wing. It is a policy that sees people's health and business costs as an opportunity, a policy that is faithful to the strategic directions of the European Union and capital that all parties accept and consolidate the commercialisation of the public health system, the returnability of benefits and the individual responsibility of patients, the directions associated with the pursuit of capital and its state to cost more cheaply the 'working power' commodity, in order to stimulate the competitiveness and reinvigoration of the profitability of business groups. That is why our people have been left uncovered in the pandemic, since their health and life is measured in the midst of costs, undermining the need for the necessary staff or infrastructure to deal with current and emergency needs. So here is where the major shortages of staff, infrastructure and technology are due, the long-term waiting lists for simple medical appointments, surgery and others, as well as infrastructure, technology and basic health care specialities. On the other hand, before the pandemic and today, we have a constant support for business groups in health, medicine or diagnostic tests, the doubling of the compensation of intensive care units beds, either with doses for return debts, or with gifts both from the previous SYRIZA government and from the current New Democracy to the pharmaceutical industry with clawback. But at the same time, for the people, the reduced benefits for medical care continue, with the well-known cuts, plaques, protocols and so on, which you all promote, forcing patients and their families to pay even more for medicines, tests, hospitals and others. And all this is happening, as the current government says - respectively, SYRIZA's previous one before PASOK - because the state has no money, at the same time you are giving annually, for example, over 4 billion euros to NATO's murder mechanism, even taking credit over time from your allies. In fact, it is a great challenge, New Democracy and SYRIZA, at the same time as you have led to the worsening of the conditions of service, prevention, treatment and medical care for our people, to try to get rid of people's consciences on the issue of health, for example, covering uninsured people, in order to support the so-called pluralist nature of your policy. Truly, uninsured, like uninsured ones, fell from heaven or is it the result of extreme weather events? It is precisely the result of the capitalist economy and development, which the current government of the New Democracy, as well as SYRIZA and PASOK before, you have a crown on your head. Of course you're showing what? The free provision of health to uninsured persons, but consciously hiding that the vast majority of them, like all the other workers, are paid to them, to participate in the costs or, in full, in accordance with the EPO regulation. But what happens in the pandemic period as well as before and will continue in the next period is that in capitalism, the system that all of you are serving, the prevention, early state planning and organisation of the health system, the provision of the necessary logistics, staffing, training to meet current and exceptional needs, but predictable, costs and waste are considered to be unacceptable. You are all aware of this, since you are serving it and that is why you cannot and do not want to satisfy the needs of our people in health, education, housing, in all areas, either in emergencies or in current situations. And in the face of the fair demands of health workers, students, teachers, workers, what are you doing? You are enlisting authoritarianism by making use of measures such as the SYRIZA government's strikeable Ahtsoglou law, the pursuant law to ban demonstrations by the Government of New Democracy, and of course a new blow to the trade union organization and action is being prepared. But against who? The heroes who applauded them in the spring and who, a few days ago in front of their fair demands, responded with chemicals, gloops, fascism and manhunt. So here is who is a real enemy that our people, who have a name and interests to defend against the people: the rotten exploitation system, capital, their political servants, their governments and their parties. In the face of them, the distrust, reliance on our people and concern and indignation against barbarism need to be turned into a more massive and organised struggle, collective claim and action, with the strengthening of the social alliance of workers, poor farmers, self-employed people, young people, measures to restore and protect the health of our people and, at the same time, aimed at a society with such an organisation of production and services throughout the economy, whose development will be determined solely not by profit, but by modern people's needs and health, with universal services, guaranteed by the people's state, which will ensure full use of all modern capacities in science and technology, with the exclusive state-of-the-art and free universal health and welfare system, with particular weight in primary health care, prevention and through the necessary scientific planning, is the case in which the public health and health needs are adapted to the real needs of all peoples, especially in order to meet the needs of society today's particular needs, especially in the form of state-of-of-the-arted and state-of-of-of-the-the-the-art health-s-art health-s-art health-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-serv-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-serv-s-s-s-s-s-s-servic-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-serv-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s This is the realism of all of you. At the same time, sufficient production of sanitary material, medicines, vaccines and not like today will be ensured, that supplying basic medicines and research on the vaccine is a cause for war on profits between business groups, rather than there being harmonious cooperation between scientists, so that studies can quickly be completed and human lives saved. Experience from the first attempted countries to build socialism is valuable because they have faced such problems effectively, although starting with lower material, technical and scientific capabilities. This battle is now being fought with the prospect of the JRC tomorrow. For this society, we call on the people to fight with us. It's up to him, as long as he decides. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u298	We continue with the Deputy of the New Democracy Mr. Noon Dunia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u299	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with great surprise - like the majority of the Greek people - I heard on Thursday the Chief of Officerial Representation announcing the submission of a motion of censure to the person of our Government's Minister of Finance. This shocked me and disappointed me for too many reasons, firstly, because the motion of censure is an extremely important parliamentary weapon, allowing Parliament to withdraw its confidence from or from the government, under the conditions laid down in Articles 84(2) of the Constitution and 142 of the Rules of Procedure, a weapon which cannot be gratified and used for reasons of impressive purposes. Mr Tsipras has chosen to make this motion of censure, not for the sake of the country, but for purely micro-party reasons. This choice, of course, goes hand in hand with all SYRIZA's policy, one of which is not, of course, an impression rather than the substance, the reasons and not the works. Secondly, the tabling of this unfounded and unfounded motion of censure against Mr Stakoura has impressed me - in a negative way - on the time at which it was tabled. As everyone knows, in recent months, our country has been hard to experience, as is the whole planet, confronted with an unprecedented pandemic, a situation for which neither the necessary knowledge nor adequate measures have been taken. And although we are doing quite well compared to other countries, we do not stop having alarming samples of virus spreading in its second wave. That is why we are not being reassured, we are constantly taking measures on the basis of scientific evidence from experts and we are trying in every way to safeguard public health and mourn as few victims as possible. While the government is fighting this difficult battle, and even while the Prime Minister announced the new measures to avoid the worst, SYRIZA considered it appropriate to question the government in the face of the Minister of Finance. And even though we have a large open front, the one with Turkey, which requires great attention, as our neighbours do not stop arbitrary and illegal moves and challenges towards us. Obviously SYRIZA does not care about the above issues in our country at this critical time. Thirdly, I really wondered by the targeting of the Minister of Finance by Mr. Tsipras, because Mr. Stagiras has achieved in a year excellent results for the Greek economy, of course, unlike what SYRIZA has done in previous years. Ladies and gentlemen, without delay for the government's economic work, which is well-known and self-proof, I would like to note: With regard to the argument of the Officerial Reconciliation that the New Democracy abolishes the protection of first home, with its basic motto 'no house in the hands of a banker' and its famous seismism abolished with Law No.4346/2015 and Law 4592/2019 the protection of first home. We didn't do it. First residence protection in a horizontal manner does not exist in the country as of February 2019, signed by Mr. Tsipras. Contrary to what SYRIZA claims, the protection of the first place of residence is now established as a permanent social protection policy for vulnerable households and is henceforth a permanent non-permanent or term-limited programme. Of course, this is not the first inaccuracy nor the first inconsistency that SYRIZA has shown throughout his parliamentary process. For example, Mr. Tsipras said that the auctions would not take place on SYRIZA and not only did they happen, but that was more than twenty-five thousand. Indeed, the relevant Minister for Finance, Mr Chakalotos, had said at the time, at the time, that electronic auctions are needed to have good banks for development, but also for social reasons. Also, I would remind you that SYRIZA, although receiving the economy on a positive orbit, managed to return it to recession in 2015 and 2016, when in Europe growth rates were over 2%. In addition, a private debt of EUR 50 billion was created on SYRIZA. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that as long as the previous government was in the process our economy was plunged down and our international credibility was brutally affected. On the other hand, New Democracy has been trying to relieve households on the first day of its governance, to give a fresh breath to businesses and to get our economy out of the stagnation it has been in for years. It has made significant reductions in taxes, mainly for the middle class, cut HICP and abolished it for the small isolated islands. It stimulated the real estate market by suspending VAT on new buildings. It has improved the framework for debt arrangements for citizens by increasing the instalments of the fixed arrangement. It paid off the expensive portion of the loans from the International Monetary Fund and proceeded with comprehensive investment projects such as the Greek one. It has created a new progressive tax scale, with a drastic reduction in the import tax rate for natural persons and a lower maximum tax rate. It reduced VAT on many products and tax rates on company profits and dividends and reduced insurance contributions. It has successfully come out seven times - the four during the crisis - on the markets, drawing a total of EUR 16 billion. Just a few days ago Greece was borrowed through the issue of a 15-year bond for the fourth time after the outbreak of the pandemic of EUR 2 billion, at a cost of less than 1.2%, which is the lowest historically noted. This demonstrates the confidence of the international markets in the management and prospects of the Greek economy, a confidence gained by the Government of New Democracy in its coherent plan and the consistency it has shown so far. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Finance has also encouraged natural persons who contribute investment funds to start-ups and investment in the green economy, energy and digitalisation, and has strengthened e-commerce. At the same time, it has taken a set of fifty-nine measures to deal with the impact of the coronary, but also with the natural disasters that we have faced. Under the ‘Refundable Payment 3’, an indicative amount of more than eighty-four thousand enterprises have received direct financial assistance totalling EUR 880 million. Of course the government's financial staff does not stop there. It goes on to abolish the solidarity levy for 2021 in terms of incomes derived from private economic activity, but also in many other measures focusing on stimulating the economy and alleviating the tax burden on taxpayers from unfavourable economic burdens. Ladies and gentlemen, the choice of Officer Opposition to table a motion of censure with micro-party motives, despising the real problems currently affecting the country, comes to confirm once again the irresponsibility that characterises SYRIZA and to highlight in the clearest way the reasons why he has lost the confidence of the Greek people. At a time when we are faced with serious national issues and we are trying to cope with them, while respecting the delicate balance that is required, the Civic Opposition, obviously disfellowshipped from reality, seeks in every way to be heard, to draw the lights of publicity. This attitude is really incomprehensible. The New Democracy Government, however, does not lose the forest to see the tree and does not waste valuable time and food for micro-party games. On the contrary, it continues its responsible and consistent course and gives its best self, with the sole aim of the best for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, too, for keeping time. The speaker of SYRIZA, Sultana Eleftheriadou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that our country is in a threefold crisis: health, economic and national, and yet the priority of the New Democracy is to go bankrupt Greeks and take the homes of the Greek people. The fact is that SYRIZA, while receiving burnt land and licensed funds, led the country to development with numbers of the Eurozone, took it out of the memoranda, left a deposit with the Government of New Democracy of 37 billion, reduced the private debt to the public and to the banks and protected households, businesses and, of course, the first residence. And it is true that, in SYRIZA days, there was not one first-stage auction and that colleagues today in the New Democracy were unable to bring to the Greek Parliament a single example of this auction. And of course all the New Democracy colleagues today said that Mitsotakis was a liar. He was a liar when on April 30, 2020, he announced the three-month extension of protection of first residence. To announce the extension, it means that there was protection of first home. So either the New Democracy MPs were lying today or Mitsotakis is a liar. The fact is that New Democracy returned to the government in the summer of 2019 and put the country back on a material orbit before the pandemic came to pass, and today it completes its work with the new Memorandum of Banking Code. And because, as Mr Mitsotakis said, he only cares about communication, the new memorandum is entitled to the imaginative title 'Confidence of debts and the provision of a second chance', while the indifferent to him is that he puts a definitive tomb on the small and medium-sized enterprises, leads to extreme poverty in households, delivers the property of the citizens in the hands of banks and funds, leads workers to impoverishment and, of course, favours some, even criminally persecuted big business, exempting them from their debts. It is a purely class bill with specific objectives, and you know that, so you are afraid of the Greek people's crisis and criticism, so you hide this bill both with its misleading title and with no mention of the media at all. So now everyone's going bankrupt. They are bankrupt by free professionals, they are bankrupt by private and civil servants, farmers, housewives, pensioners. Now they all go bankrupt and they all lose their property, mobile and immovable, as well as their future income. Now those who go bankrupt lose ownership of their home. The property for the first time will not mention its name until the first owner and borrower, but will mention the name of a private fund. And you say, it's an obligation for the fund to rent the house to the borrower. Lies. The fund will choose how many and whom it will favour. He will choose who will enable them to rent their home. And that's nothing important, I'll explain it. He will choose, and indeed he will take the rent with state subsidies. So you're actually going to make the owners of the tenants to obtain the funds revenues, because what else will they do so many thousands of homes they will get in their portfolios? They must also pay to keep them and pay taxes. Unless you have tenants to pay home taxes on fake grounds that they are owners and they will buy homes. Moreover, all workers of bankruptcy companies will be made redundant and will claim compensation to the courts, even if the company continues to operate through bankruptcy or is transferred to another owner and continues to operate. Workers will be made redundant, and there is a chance that they will lose their compensation, as banks will have the privilege of divestment of the assets. The discharge proclaimed by the New Democracy, which you say comes after three years, is also a lie. Aggregate creditors will be able to extend the time of supervision beyond three years. Therefore, a borrower may never be relieved of his debts. Also, the guarantors, even if the borrower is relieved, continue to be due. With regard to the possibility of adjusting the debts in the preliminary stage, Mr.Adonis Georgiadis said: 'Revolution. You put the evidence, press the internet and come up with a proposal." But he forgot to say that the bank is not obliged to submit a proposal. If he does not submit a proposal, the borrower is bankrupt. If he submits a proposal and the borrower doesn't accept it, he's going bankrupt again. And the public is obliged to follow the bank's view. So, what revolution are we talking about? Revolution in bankruptcies quickly, instantly. So Corodia is not a second opportunity for the New Democracy Banking Code, but for today's debate. Here in the Greek Parliament, the debate has led to the mockery and mockery of borrowers by the Members of the New Democracy, the mockery of the people who will lose their homes. Mr. Vorides came and asked: "But now if anyone is in debt, he cannot escape his debts. How will he escape his debts?" I would therefore ask Mr Mitsotakis to tell him how the parties get away with when they owe, how the shipowners get away with when they owe them, how the casino owners and the big businessmen get away with their debts. Mr. Mitsotakis knows well. And make a comparison. According to ELSTAT, it was recorded by the Greek companies that were suspended on a state mandate, a reduction in turnover of 560 million euros, that is, the total debt of the New Democracy and PASOK loans. And what solution do you give your party for its debts? Mr. Mitsotakis says that he has a hundred and fifty-five thousand members who will pay from 1 euro a month and, therefore, the loans will be repaid in sixty-five years and Mr. Adonis Georgiadis says they will never be repaid. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I'll be done. But to companies all over Greece, who owe almost everything you owe to your loans, you give them a choice, bankruptcy. 81% of enterprises, as GSEV said, fall under the provisions of bankruptcy law and are in danger of going bankrupt. Why don't you give these businesses the two solutions you give to the parties in the New Democracy and PASOK, whether they pay in sixty-five years or not? Also, one last thing and I'm closing. Mr Georgiadis said that he is being called to his office and that he is very proud and asked: "When will you finally vote on this bankruptcy bill, why do we want to be saved?" Who's taking him? Strategic mispaids take him because you favour him with this bill. Strategic poor payers are not small and medium-sized businessmen who are trying to support their family through an activity that they may have inherited from their parents. Strategic poor payers are not the highly indebted households who have a loan for a single residence. Strategic malpractices are big businessmen, who are waiting to go bankrupt and lay off their staff, while they have huge private properties and have created other companies in other LNGs and will normally continue their activities, detached from the debts they have created.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u302	Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u303	I'm closing down and I want to testify something in the Minutes. Members say to you: 'There are now wealthy entrepreneurs with bankrupt businesses, and this bill gives a solution'. The bill provides a solution with Article 100 to entrepreneurs whose properties have been seized by the dirty money laundering principle. One of these cases is Mr Laurentis Laurentiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u304	Hang up now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u305	I'll be done in a second. So for Mr Laurentis Laurentiades there is a provision that binds all his property for dirty money laundering. I put the order in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sultana Eleftheriadou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So this businessman, Mr Laurentiadis, like others, favours this bill. And with the stolen money you'll pay the banks. In order to write this in the Minutes, Mr Laurentiadis has submitted a proposal today to take part in the retreat of the port of Kavala.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u306	Mrs. Eleftheriadou, look at the clock.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u307	I want it written in the Minutes so you know it, not to say that you ignored it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u308	Let's cut some more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u309	And I close by saying this. The government has deaf...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u310	Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u311	I'm closing up on a proposition. We waited until 2:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u312	The time is 2.00 p.m. and we have other speakers. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u313	A proposition. The government has deafened to the appeals of the actors and the opposition, but it will not be able to deaf to society, which will soon be aware of your plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u314	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u315	Yes, Minister, here you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mr President. Because my colleague called the Prime Minister a liar and the colleagues of the New Democracy and the Government liars, I am surprised that my colleague was here all the time when I and the Minister and many colleagues spoke and did not understand what we were talking about. What's the truth, my colleague? The truth is that the SYRIZA - ANEL government was the one that, in the context of its " proud" negotiation, agreed at the end of 2015 to terminate the protection of the first residence with L.4346/2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u317	Mrs. Ahchioglu answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u318	I've never interrupted you. I've listened very carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u319	He's answered that!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u320	Respect my colleague!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u321	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u322	You are a very young colleague, respecting my colleague when he speaks. I didn't interrupt you. You called us liars. Listen to the truth. It may be awkward, but learn to hear truths. It was then that the SYRIZA - ANEL government voted to sell the red housing and business loans to funds, the funds that you described as "brows" of the markets. As of February 2019, there was no protection of first residence. That's the truth, my colleague. Under the state of panic, you did bring in a law, Law No.4605/2019, which has been published 1-4-2019, which provided limited protection of the first home and concerned a certain number of borrowers, with strict criteria of income and property, but also with many problematic provisions. For this reason, it proves the small involvement and willingness of borrowers to join the law and to be protected, and this proves the actual failure of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u323	Do I have to answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u324	No, you don't have the right to answer. The speaker of the Greek Solution Mr Constantine Boubas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u325	Thank you very much, Mr President. The truth is here, on this paper, Minister. You will hear it so the Greek people can hear it. It is one thing that all parties should be placed. Before I continue, there is a clear order from the judges. We have submitted it since 22 July, the Minister of Justice, Mr. Tsiaras, has admitted it. The judges order the new judges in Thessaloniki with a training document "now you are going to go to trial, will you take any deceit on the subjects, i.e. on the borrowers and support the banks" and discuss the first residence? Mr Tsiaras admitted it, but he said that we cannot intervene in the judiciary, as he also said there are many poor borrowers, but that you will allow me - where the legal world is? - ad hoc to judge the court individually. I'll come back to this. Listen. Today a timeless saying is in place: “Who rules this place?” The founder of the New Democracy, Constantine Karamanlis, said so. Today there is a war between people and numbers. Where prosperous numbers suffer. That's what's happening today. Do you want us to carry out parliamentary work or check the banking system and be queue of the system? Today, unfortunately, it's worldwide what it says? We are hostages in politics and politicians - with 'h' and 'h' - for the many money they get for advertising campaigns, so checks are being redeemed. It's not just Greek. It's global and especially on the old continent. So, now we are going to be a tail to the credit system, which will indicate how we will protect the tile of the people? If you go into the concept of bankruptcy, you will see that bankruptcy is the inability to pay either to some debtors partly or totally from a commercial enterprise. It does not like the etymology of the word "poverty" the trader along with the simple natural person, the party Greek. So, here, gentlemen, we are dealing here today with what an American philosopher, Thomas Sowell, once said, that the first lesson in the economy is the insufficient resources, that is, the resources that are not sufficient to help people. The first lesson in politics, unfortunately, says, is to remove the first lesson in the economy. We must be close to the helpless citizen. As regards the national implied slap, these could be the initials of the PSE, and I will explain that, because I am persecuted, as a journalist in the province with a treatment against me of EUR 2 million. And the PSE didn't come to support me against a German multinational corporation. Today Velopoulos is being put on the table, but it seems that the MPs of the Greek Solution are being persecuted. And I ask: is the National Broadcasting Council in some bank adverts that mislead the Greek people in what they advertise has ever imposed fines, because they are trying to alter the information they offer as banking products? There's a question about the bank advertising campaign. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, those of you who are listening to us this time. Mr President, you are also a physicist, physics says it takes seventeen meters to become an adversary, if I remember. So we have an adversary. For those who are listening to us, ten minutes after 2, I say that in 1928 Greece made a constitution with which we passed without blood from feudalism to urbanisation. In the rest of Europe too much blood has been spilled. So the Constitution of 1928 was a pilot for all European countries, why? For he gave him hectares of land to the Greek man, he gave him land, for the Greek man is intertwined with his land. I'm afraid we don't have a policy mutation. There is no general danger to the system from COVID - it is also a female genus - but it is risky not to be changed as parties and as politicians in the face of the numbers, economic trust and all that they want to impose their own control with their own interests. Greece must react. The myth of Andaios and Hercules is not random. Make the system "HERAKLIS" for the banks. Let me just inform you on the basis of mythology that Hercules has been self-cleared by the Philosopher with his own poison. But Antea was bound to the earth. Hercules may have been the guardian of the weak only when he managed to defeat the Antius. Ladies and gentlemen, if we leave the earth, from the ground, from the house and the tiles that the deconstructors will do our work for all of us in the chain of life, our woes and our alas. So we must look in the face of the Greek people, who, with tears in the eyes, the partial builder is a businessman who has lost his job and is in danger of losing his home. Protect the man. In general, the bill must be of anthropocentric character. It doesn't matter that the Greek Solution brought this timely question to see the judicial authority it commands the new incubators rather than representatives - it has the importance of - Themidas. Our question, as a Greek solution, knows her. I had then discussed it with Mr. Moraitis from SYRIZA, with Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis from the "Russian Disabled Front" against the system that you should have, Mr. Logiadis, with Mr. Loverdos, who is a constitutionalist in the Change Movement and with Blue Members of the New Democracy. It's not just about the Greek solution. All parties' presidents must be placed, and I call on the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, from this step, to take a stand on what the judges say to the new judges, which the Minister for Justice accepted. They are said to be "go for the borrowers and support the banks". The question is an indication of the division of the judiciary against borrowers who wish to be subject to the successor structure of the Katseli law. Is there a legal site, is there verified and we are discussing support for the first residence, when there is an order from the judges themselves, and is the Minister of Justice telling me that we cannot intervene in the judiciary? Clearly, the roles of judiciary - legislative - executive in this three-year period are distinct. But are we here not guards? Greek people, I have this obligation at this time, as a Member of the Greek Parliament, but this is something to do with the entire Greek Parliament, with the Republic itself. Because if people knew how the banking system works, it would have been a revolution, said Churchill. And do not verify what Plato said: 'the just thing or the perpetual interest of the Cretan'. I once heard Mr Georgiadis say, months ago, "But where did he hear the first residence in which state?" Yes, in Greece! Yes, in Greece, in the country of philosophy, democracy, virtue, boldness and, in general, equality. From here, on the basis of the myth of Antaiou, based on the Constitution of 1928, to be a header, a pilot to throw our lights against a system that is corrupted, mutated and beats the ordinary people. But look. Policies such as Constantine Karamanlis, Andreas Papandreou, Dimitris Tsovolas and so many others, Evangelos Giannopoulou - whom do I remember? - they would in no way accept bills at the expense of the Greek people, the trunk of the Greek society. Save Thermopylae, because soon we will all be running, without any party tone and ideological navigation, as a tail behind large credit systems, where we will be hostages and underhand. I call on the Prime Minister himself to take a stand against the Greek people now. There is this mandate and we must react, because we cannot talk about preconceived decisions on the tile of Greece. It's not a matter that the Greek Solution reveals. It is a matter of concern to the whole of the democratic parliamentary arch. We must preserve democracy and equality. Thucydides once said: "The wrongful people rather angry or raped." The Greek people will react more not when you rape him, but when you blame him. I'm closing, Mr. President. Know that there is another saying a great philosopher called it: "The privilege of capitalism is the unequal distribution of wealth. Socialism is an equal distribution of poverty." Be careful, for the Greek people are with tears in their eyes, with great pain and cannot be swallowed, he is bound like Antwerion with his land. We must not have a modern Killer against people who want to have this oasis, this refuge and what is called the "sacred family". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That's where I want the ESS against the banking system, to react to protect the Greek. The Greek to protect...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u326	Please, Mr. Colleague, finish it up. Don't open any more issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u327	...it's a sacred obligation. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, too. We'll close the meeting with George Logiadis, MP of Mera25. Here, Mr. Loyadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u329	Thank you very much, Mr President. Starting from PASOK, then you, New Democracy with PASOK - Change Movement and at the end SYRIZA, have imprisoned the country in the vicious circles of debt, overtaxation, impoverishment, unworthiness of bankruptcy. Today, as a New Democracy, you have the overwhelming majority of the Greek people in front of you. I am sure that many of those who last voted for you will have turned your back on you today. And not to forget, 62% is also what in 2015 from 'no' became 'yes', 'yes' and by you. In 2010 you chained Greece, contrary to what happened with Germany after the Second World War, where it was deleted a large part of its debt and the rest was linked to its development. It's exactly what Yanis Varoufakis tried to do then at Eurogroup. I would also remind you, historically, that anyone who is not aware of history is doomed to repeat it - what has happened again with Germany since the First World War, where it has been subjected to difficult conditions and loans, austerity, deportation and debt. This brought Hitler to power by election and followed by World War II and the destruction of Europe. We are on this road today as Greece and as a Europe. In 2010 you went bankrupt and sold out every worthy part of it, such as infrastructure and public property. Today, in 2020, with your bill you will finish, impoverish, and go bankrupt. Now you will lead to private bankruptcy, while we will eternally be in bankruptcy. I will not go into the pretext proposal of distrust, nor shall I analyse this abortion, which you call a second chance in this bankruptcy bill. I would like to stress, however, that you have tabled another bill in the consultation and brought it to the House, as you have done very recently with the bill on the abolition of disposable plastics, where at first there was a great consensus from Parliament in the committee, but then from the amendment of the bill, which you brought along with it and the sale of 'Larco' etc., they were all to you. Poverty and unreliable are your parties, who have debts as parties and do not pay them back, not the simple, defenseless citizen. I address the people who are watching us. We're doing deaf monologues here. You are Pharisees when one accuses one another and asks one another if this bill has been imposed on you by the troika, because you all know very well that you three who signed the memoirs have imposed them on the Greek people. If we had real democracy and dialogue, you should withdraw this bill, because you today only have a parliamentary majority and not a social majority. Everyone's against you. Having society in front of you, you pass unconstitutional bills. You bankrupt the property of the Greeks and I mean private individuals. The public you have already sold out all three of you, the New Democracy, the PASOK - Change Movement and SYRIZA. This is the boom of your bankruptcy bill SYRIZA launched. We, Mera25, highlighted the unconstitutionality of your bill and denounce the process as a pretext. Thank you. Have a good night and transport.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, Mr. Logiades, too, who has been very, very concise, because it is not for good night, it is for good morning, Mr. Logiadis. We've changed the day too. Before we finish the meeting, and to be informed by some colleagues who will speak first, the debate will begin tomorrow with Mr Pericles Manda from New Democracy, Mr Eleftherios Avramakis from SYRIZA, Mrs Zetta Makre from New Democracy, and we will continue with the list, which has been distributed to you. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-23-S1-commons.u331	With the consent of the House, 2.20' is the meeting for today, Saturday, October 24, 2020, on the subject of the House's work: a continuation of the debate on the motion of censure against the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stakoura, presented by the Chief of Officerial Reconciliation and President of the Parliamentary Group of the Radical Left - Progressive Alliance of Alexis Tsipras and eighty-five Members of the Group's parliamentary group, in accordance with Rule 84 of the Constitution and Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure.
