ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Before we begin, let me make two announcements to this House. The Ministers of National Defence, Finance, Foreign Affairs and Justice tabled a draft law on 19-6-2020: "Definition of the Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the State of Israel and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic on the supply of Equipment and Defence Services". The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance, the Framework for the granting of microfinances, financial sector arrangements and other provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the topical and urgent questions issue scheduled for today, the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House of the following: ‘We are aware of the topical and urgent questions debate, in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, that on Monday 22 June 2020 the topical and urgent questions to be debated are as follows: The Question under No 804/12-6-20 and the Question No 820/15-2020, which will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon and Mr Adonni Georgiadis. The Question under number 801/11-6-20 and Question 816-15-20 will be answered by the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Niki Kerameos. The question under number 815-15-20, which will be answered by the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendoni. The Question No 805/12-6-2020 will be answered by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr. Ioannis Paciotakis. The question under number 797/9-6-2020 and the question under number 800/11-6-2020, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Migration and Asylum Mr Georgios Koumoutsakos. The Question No 807/15-6-2020 and the Question No 809/15-6-2020, which will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Dimitrios Economou.’. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall therefore begin with the debate on the first under number 797/9-6-20 of a topical and urgent question for the first cycle of Parliament's B3' South sector of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theanos Fotou to the Minister for Migration and Asylum on the subject: 'Without child protection, minors are unaccompanied for deportation in violation of international conventions. Who are the public, transparent services of the National Centre for Social Solidarity (ECD) to be transferred to you? In a posteriori or a third party?’ Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u2	Mr Kumucako, I am glad that you are here today, two days after the World Day of Refugees and a few days after the announcements of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, the IMO and other international bodies and organisations for complaints - take care - of informal, illegal and violent repropriations, push - back, immigrant and asylum seekers in violation of international principles and conventions. I'm filing the relevant documents from the two agencies, so I don't want to be accused of being Erdogan's accomplice. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mrs Theanos Fotio, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You do the same for unaccompanied minors. In other words, you are treating them in violation of international principles and conventions to deport the majority of them to supposedly safe countries of origin, but also to 'establish' the profile of the philosopher and sensitive Prime Minister, creating a lofty legal and procedural conflicting arrangements. The ultimate state in all its majesty! In November 2019, we have the Prime Minister's announcement to create an informal coordination scheme for unaccompanied minors under him, led by Ms. Meridakis and assistant to Mr. Doxiadis, who on the street disappeared. The aim was to turn public opinion into something that sensitizes her, namely the minor unaccompanied children, to distract her from the vaterlo of the migratory you had created. In November 2019, twenty days before the announcements of the philosopher Prime Minister, Mr Chrysochide passes a law on immigration, with which you divide minors into two categories: over fifteen years and under fifteen years. Greek invention? Tell me, Mr Kumucako, what European country is this separation? What's your target? Because for us it's obvious. The deportation to so-called safe countries of origin of the majority of unaccompanied minors because it is well known to all of us - it may not be to the public - that 85% of unaccompanied minors who enter the country are over fifteen years old. So I ask you directly: Have you deported any of these children to this day? Or do you intend to deport them with that law that applies? I am talking about children over 15 years of age from the so-called safe countries of origin. In January 2020, you re-establish the repealed Ministry of Migration Policy and set up a special secretariat on unaccompanied minors in violation of international principles and European directives, which stress that unaccompanied minors are treated as children and are entitled to child protection, i.e., rather than as immigrants. So the relevant Ministry is the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs dealing with child protection. Now, it is followed by an official state cradle as follows: in March, under the law of the Ministry of Interior for the ATTs, details are laid down for the implementation by the National Centre for Social Solidarity, namely the EKT, a body supervised by the Ministry of Labour of which the law of the Committee of Independence is laid down in 1918, in order to designate a commissioner to any minor unaccompanied person. The commissioner replaces, as we know - for the Greek society to know - the natural family of the minor, he is responsible for his best interests and for as long as the child remains in our country. With the OTA Act the EKT can create regional tiers in OTAs I and II for the maximum possible treatment of a complex process of nomination of a commissioner. In April now and while Mrs Meridakis has been appointed a special secretary since February, but she has not been given any official competence, we have the communiqué bubble of the Prime Minister's touching patron to the forty-nine children who left for Germany and another twelve for Luxembourg. I ask you: How, and by whom were the children chosen, under what secret and opaque procedures, who made the consensus, since the EKKA had no involvement, nor was Mrs Aloeidakis, I imagine, since she was without competence - not at that time - and her associates? In a question of thirty-five Members of the SYRIZA, we have not received any reply. Thank you, Mr President. I'm going to go on in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Immigration and Asylum Mr. George Koumoutsaskos. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u4	Mrs Fotou, these are issues which have been answered in our debate in plenary. You bring them back - and the answers were clear and clear - because you want to create impressions. I will start my answer with one question: a law that you voted on, Law 4554 on the committee, when did you implement it? Has this law been implemented? And if so, what happened? Did everything work perfectly or didn't work anything? What were the gaps? Why didn't you fix it? How, while you have this past, do you come today - instead of apologizers - to make the prosecutor? But let's go to the essence of your questions. It has never been abolished - it has never been abolished! - protection for unaccompanied minors in Greece. Because you insist on this deformation, morally and politically open. Even the special secretariat that has been made was a Special Secretariat for the Protection of Unaccompanied minors, so for something that is an obligation and commitment of the country under international law, you are making a great mistake - and I do not understand your obsession with this - to want to create a distorted impression. The EPC continues to have the authority of the committee, as does the Ministry of Labour. The amendment that has been made and the creation of the Minors Protection Secretariat is essentially attempting to improve coordination and remains the responsibility of the new secretariat focusing on the issue of the management of housing requests, as was the case in 2018 for the Ministry of Migration Policy. From you he left and went to EKKA. Well, there's no reason to create impressions of unambiguous responsibilities. It holds the EPC's responsibility, it also holds the Ministry of Labour and the secretariat will perform a coordinating role with a focus on the issues that I mentioned. Now, you're constantly talking about the state at last. The ultimate state is a form of administration, a perception of the country's administration and has brought very positive results, as the government's work so far confirms. It has nothing to do with deportations. Where did you see them deportations? Tell me, do you people who ask me and make that impression in public speech, but also outside the country, do you have any clues? Do you have anything specific in your hands? Because if something specific is in your hands, one case, one name, be sure to be considered and go too far what you will denounce. But you come here and say, "What if this happened?" Did the other one happen?’ Is that parliamentary control? May I also ask you 15 things: 'Do I not have that on your day, or did I have the other?' Do you have any clues? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] And because you spoke about how the two returns were made, or rather the two relocations of minors to Luxembourg and Germany, you know or do you not know that international organisations have cooperated in implementing this programme, which is also under the auspices of the European Commission? Do you think that if there were anything else, would these two international organisations be 'complicated', basically the High Commissioner for Refugees or the International Organisation for Migration? If it had been done on such a critical subject, like unaccompanied minors, the slightest thing that wasn't typically okay, wouldn't that have emerged? Why do you build and see ghosts where they don't exist? Why do you make this impression on such a delicate subject that the government is not doing its job well while you know very well that it makes it perfect and will make it even better? And we get credit from the international organizations for the work they do. I shall end with the point you raise and it concerns the 15-year-old or not. There are, as you know, two processes: speed and normal. So I say to you that all children under the age of 15 are going to the normal procedure, with only three exceptions, special exceptions: firstly, if the unaccompanied minor comes from a safe country, if he has submitted a later application without showing that there are new essential elements and if he is considered for some reasons to be a safety problem. That's the only reasons. Otherwise, the law to which you are exercising this continuing criticism, which you seem to have not read well, stipulates that - and you will allow me to read and will be the end of my reply - who is an unaccompanied minor under Law 4636-2019, namely our own. An unaccompanied minor is defined as “the minor who arrives in Greece without being accompanied by a person who, according to Greek law, exercises his or her parental care or custody or by an adult relative who in practice carries out his or her care and for as long as the exercise of those duties is not entrusted to another person, according to the law. This definition includes the child who ceases to be accompanied after his entry into Greece.’ This wording does not indicate any age-based separation. All unaccompanied minors are up to eighteen years old. I have explained the two procedures to you, namely when the under-fifths enter a rapid process as an exception, because they are, in principle, normal. We feel that we are doing our job in this very critical field with great care, with quiet consciousness and very positive results. Because all the relocations that have taken place are done according to all the forecasts and will continue to do so. You know what? There would be no such offer, there would be no such supply from Member States - Member States seriously and with a guarantee of history, in terms of their sensitivity to immigration issues, but in particular of unaccompanied children, if there were even one in a million cases of their complicity in something that was not satisfactory, complete, accurate and according to law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u5	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u6	We cannot have states with this tradition and participate in our efforts here in Greece to form - or try to form - such unacceptable, in my view, false impressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much. We didn't start well. You'll call me that grumpy again, as I hear you call it in the vault. Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor. Be careful, please, a little bit of time, because we also have the SYRIZA's topical question after.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u8	Mrs. Fotio took more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u9	No, he didn't talk more time. If I remember correctly, he spoke four minutes and twenty-five seconds. You spoke seven. We are not going to solve this problem now. Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u10	Minister, you're confused. You're not asking me. I ask you, Minister. Excuse me, this is the process. I asked you a question and you didn't answer it. I asked you: What legislation in the world, in European legislation is there a separation between children under and over fifteen? You responded wrongly here: Children under 15 are not going to the fast track procedures. The kids are going over 15. And that's 85% of the kids. Let Mrs. Lovely tell you better and write them better. I asked you whether there was such a thing throughout Europe. You didn't answer me. This was done by Mr Chrysochoidis, the fast track procedures. So let me inform you, Minister. Let's go down. You didn't answer me, how did you choose them? Why is that and no more? With what priority of the thousands of kids here, did these sixty-two kids go? You didn't answer me. And you did not answer me, because there is no EKKA in your mind. He did not do this as he was due, because he was the only one who knew and the only one responsible until then. And you didn't answer that. But let's go later. That is why you have not answered all thirty-five Members of the SYRIZA. We haven't got any answers so far. It's not random either. In May 2020, then, Minister, in the middle of a coronary, you are amending your own law of November, namely Mr Chrysochoidis. And you are creating an even greater problem for minors with minority. We talked about it in the law debate. All the institutions have told you. You voted for the law yourself. Then, for the first time, assign all the responsibilities for unaccompanied minors to the Special Secretary of Unaccompanied Persons by removing them from the CRP. In other words, you are removed from the EKKA, which does this job five years, the registers of incoming children, hosting structures, distributions in hosting structures, except for the responsibility of the committee. You leave that one there, except that this is an empty shirt. It's an empty shirt. For all the knowledge that the EKKA has in it you have removed it from it. So it will now make the comitology without knowing at the same time. These are unprecedented. Then, instead of working with the EKKA, the special secretary, a month later, recently, on the launch of actions, asked the EKKA to abolish the services for unaccompanied minors and to hand over the registries, which I am passing on to UNICEF, and which are original and unique. And he leaves the comitology like I said, like an empty shirt. In your Ministry, however, there are no necessary administrative structures for managing the registers. In our view, for this foreign policy, you want to succeed with one forum of two birds, to effectively cancel the law on the comitology. What do we now need the commissioner's law? On the other hand, you want to enlarge the ultimate state of retired persons or apply your friendly tactics of assignments to private entities and NGOs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And here I ask you, Minister. At least, answer me in this question: How to send the services to the Special Secretariat for Unaccompanied Minors to handle the issues you are taking from a public body...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u11	Comrade, hang up with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u12	I need another minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u13	But you've taken five minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u14	I ask you, Mr Minister: will you be proclaiming SAPA positions or according to your dear method, will you nominate without any process of postponing your "speaking" children? Or are you giving private and non-governmental assignments? The EKRD doesn't make you, Minister. I'm just finishing up with this: Hold those numbers I'm going to tell you and you'll see why you've failed. It publishes every fortnight data showing the inability of your state of staff. What shows the comparison of the EPC of data on 15 June 2019 - one year ago - with 15 June 2020? In June 2019, we had a total of three thousand eight hundred eighty-three unaccompanied minors with eight hundred and three of them in order. We had you two hundred seats, like the old man, and so on. Mrs. Lovedakis knows. Within a year, Minister, in June 2020, children increased by 25%. There are four thousand eight hundred forty-three today. These are the numbers from the EKKA that you want to abolish in this job. By analogy, then, you should have eight hundred children again, what we left in June last year, because your two positions were ready. And indeed, they're ready. But you have a thousand four hundred sixty-two. You doubled the kids to settle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u15	And you a year, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u16	This is your final state. This is the achievement of the special secret Mrs. Meridakis and all the contradictory and conflicting arrangements you have been making for a year. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u17	Please, although you're upsetting me. You should know that. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u18	Less.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u19	I wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u20	SYRIZA and you, Mrs. Fotio, find an area to criticise, in which everyone awards us. That's in itself very strange. When the perception of how we handle this issue throughout Europe is that, for the first time, they have reliable interlocutors who can go ahead, you here, at this point where everyone is congratulating you, come to find problems. You're talking about the number of children who grew up. Can you not arrest the fact that when the flows have increased - since July 2019 because of Turkey and the policy it has implemented - this has immediately increased the number of children? They stopped since July 2019...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u21	You can't hear me when I talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u22	Please. He didn't interrupt you. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u23	Did they stop coming children in July 2019? And they had what you had left...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u24	But, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u25	Mrs. Fotio, she didn't interrupt you anywhere in every six minutes. Please let him finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u26	You are therefore showing numbers, ignoring deliberately to say publicly what the reasons for increasing the number of minors have been. It's not from bad management. It is because the total number of arrivals in the country, because that was the policy of the neighbouring country, increased. But that's not what you're saying. You get a number and you're trying to make wrong comparisons just for impressions. In fact, we are now going to make a final reply to that question. What the secretariat will do, what will be done on the issue of unaccompanied people, will be done, as has already been done, with respect for all the procedures. The cooperation of the EPC is essential. There is. As is the case with the similar cooperation of the Ministry of Labour. And it's all done - and it's going to be - perfect. Do not precede evil when everything - I assure you - will be as it should be. The same will be true of the staff of the secretariat. The whole change has only been made for one reason: to be more efficient. To be more effective. And you will see that in the new conditions that have been created due to events since July 2019 and after there has been a vertical increase, because some people have sent them, as they have attempted in March - which is why there has been a vertical increase - you will see that we will manage it. And we'll handle it very well. I give you as an indication what you want to ignore. How so many European states are rushing to participate in this effort of recognised sensitivity and democracy? If there was any doubt, would they? They wouldn't. So that gives you the answer. You're making a bad opposition to the wrong subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Minister, for the time. We move on to the second with number 800/11-6-2020 in the first cycle of the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Migration and Asylum, on the subject: "Agriculture seekers' overconcentration phenomena outside the Asylum Service." Mr. Kamine, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. There is a sequence of events, Minister, which I would like to mention. On May 15, the Ministry draws up a press release stating that on the 18th, three days later, the Asylum Service will temporarily start to operate again. From her first day of operation, she started dragging some crowds. On June 1, the picture was disappointing. They took it and the channels began to show images of crowds of conspired outside the Asylum Service and tails. Mr. Metarakis himself was forced to go, who said that these people, while they had been instructed in time, wanted themselves to come in person to get information. What happened? The very day before on 10 June, the Ministry had issued a communication which gave a model for the electronic application for the registration of asylum applications in Greek and - I correct - and in English, because in my question I had only mentioned Greek and to be fair I have to make it up to you. The same day later, the Ministry received a new press release, essentially what he did was that he extended until 11 June the validity of the asylum returns which had expired from 30 May and extended them until 1 October. This means that for ten, eleven days there were people holding an asylum application which was not substantially extended. Any cop could actually find them and lead them to deportation. The question is when the Asylum Service will be operating properly and whether there will henceforth be full and timely information on such crucial issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Kamine. The Deputy Minister for Immigration and Asylum will respond Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u30	Mr Kamine, we will clarify the issues you have raised, starting first of all from the fact that there are no controversies anymore and that there will not be any more. There's no congestedness anymore. It will be solved and there will not be any solution. There were a few days that this crowd actually showed up. What are the two main reasons for this? Firstly, they wanted to renew the cards and process some administrative loose ends with the service. As you know, the Office of Asylum was only dealing with a part of its responsibilities. It was therefore created in this time, let us say, because of a reduced status of the Asylum Service, a large number of increased interest and that was reflected by the coming of those days to the Office. The Minister decides to extend the Bulletins on 1 October 2020. Therefore, the issue may have existed. They're treated and cured. A number of administrative actions that they need have now been digitised on the Ministry's website, but also on a special application site, and the forms are now also translated into fifteen languages and information are also available on the HICP website. In the meantime, security has also been strengthened, so that there is a proper functioning of the service. There was, therefore, a limited period of time due to the previous, adapted, to the needs of the Coronary Age, to reduced action by the Asylum Service, an increased number of interested parties to extend their lists. He's handled. Things have come into order and I am assured by the Asylum Service that this will no longer be repeated.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Kamine, you have three minutes at your disposal for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Why especially on June 11, was such a great turnout observed? That's what's interesting. It was precisely because the application for registration was posted only in English and English at 10 p.m. Now I am glad to hear that in too many languages the necessary documents will now be available. Now, since we have you here, we would like you to say a few words because we have heard that the committee proposal has been postponed, the recommendation, on how to reform the system of shared responsibility between the Member States of the European Union. What we have heard is that an agreement on the multiannual financial framework should be preceded. I imagine there's going to be a big bargain. However, as we have recently had the annual report of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees which prescribes us a very dark future globally for the refugee problem, we should also have some answers, Minister, on how to find a roof for these people who will come from the islands, since we now have a rapid treatment of asylum applications. The "EXTIA" programme which the Ministry had calculated will use because they will empty positions from recognised refugees to enter asylum seekers cannot be done. They're sitting in too much, and they're not leaving. And the program "ELIOS" on the other hand, which is intended to house those who have received refugee status, is quite bureaucraticly burdened. The person concerned must be able to find an apartment, must be able to make an advance payment, guarantee, etc. We've got the first sample in the last few days. They were forced for the first time to set up tents at the camp of olive grove. So far, we've only been able to have containers. They are scenes to house a mixed population, a hundred and seventy people who came from Moria and could not find a roof and another hundred and thirty asylum seekers who the police gathered from here and there. I want us to have a fat answer on how we plan to work together the programs "EXTIA" and "ELIOS" so that we do not have people on the streets and squares again, given that we are now in the summer and it is very likely that we will also have increased flows from the islands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, too. Minister, you have three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u34	I begin with the last thing you mentioned, because it is indeed an issue that needs clarification. The flows after the March events have shown a spectacular decline. The country's strong attitude in March and the policy pursued have contributed greatly to this spectacular decline in flows. But I do not believe that we can in any way be in a constant vigilance, because as you know there is a four million immigrants and refugees in the neighbouring country, whose leadership has shown that very cynically he is attempting to use this tank to achieve geostrategic reasons. The next few months are months when weather allows for floating and flow and we therefore have the combination of a will of the neighboring country and weather conditions. That is why the country will do its duty. International law will also be respected, but the security of the country will be protected. So, as I told you, we are alert not to flows and to deal with this phenomenon. Now, we all agree that the islands must be dismantled. There's no magical way to do it. Some have to leave the islands and come to the mainland, and the way it is done is very important. At the same time, those who have taken asylum and who have received international protection cannot remain for ever in structures scheduled to be covered by asylum seekers, because how can we find places in those who come from the islands in the inland? So, we need to make parallel moves. I believe that the fact that the "ESTFIA" programme goes through the management of the Greek state will help eventually. This does not mean that we will not continue to need support from international organisations. I believe that in the next few years things will go well. It's not easy. It's hard. In Victoria Square, we had a very small number that is not, in relation to the people who are willing to leave - those who already have asylum - from the structures in which so far illegally, if you like, have stayed. Nothing's easy with immigration. Everything is difficult and they want great attention in their management. As far as the European field is concerned, there is indeed a postponement. There is a postponement of the committee's draft for the new Immigration and Asylum Pact. It is said to be moving towards the end of July. If you ask me personally, I would tell you that me and the government would prefer to start this negotiation. Another time must not be wasted and the German Presidency, which has de facto a separate gravity, is wrong to lose one and two months in the management of this issue, because if the proposal is tabled in July, you realise that August is a dead month and we have lost two and three months. However, the European Union is currently facing two major challenges and the Recovery Fund, which seems to have no converging views at present, is a major issue for the economy and society in Europe, but also for the multiannual financial framework. Obviously from Brussels it was thought that three major open topics at the moment would probably lead to the whole debate either in a dead end or in a relationship with one another. But there is always the thought that when anyone comes before the problem, it runs faster and the agreement should also be tabled so that we can all be in front of our responsibilities in Europe. In any case, we will be ready, we are ready at any time, as we had discussed last week. Our positions are clear, our alliances are ready. We will, of course, continue to monitor it and adapt it to the information which needs to be adapted in line with the information reached in Brussels. I only live in something I told you last week. For us, compulsory asylum procedures without compulsory solidarity and fair burden-sharing are not meant. Either there's going to be mandatory in everything or there's not going to be anywhere. That's our main position. There will be nothing compulsory if everything is not mandatory and with this principle we will enter this negotiation whenever it starts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u35	Thank you too, Minister. Next, the fourth question under number 805/12-6-2020 is the second question of the Piraeus II piraeus by Mera25 Mr. Fotinis Bakadammas to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Construction of a shipyard in Perama". Mrs. Bakada, good evening, and good week! You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u36	Good evening, Mr President. Minister, thank you for being here today to answer the question I have tabled to you, a question for a matter that has been raised in the last few days and is extremely important to the inhabitants not only of Perama, but also to the whole region in general. I would remind you that the opportunity for this whole debate to begin, and all these reactions were the decision of the S.H.E. a few days ago on 10 June, according to which PPA can proceed and establish a shipyard in the ship repair zone of Perama effectively cancelling decisions of the region of 2018, which had moved on the opposite side. As you can see, this has triggered a number of reactions. A lot of representatives and workers in the Perama Shipbuilding Area, as well as citizens, fearing that if this goes ahead, a locker will enter two thousand businesses and stay on the road about twenty thousand residents who sought, had a debate, a meeting with the President of the PPA. The President of the PPA pledged to respect the original commitments, according to which a shipyard in Perama would not be expected to become a shipyard. I have read your own relevant statements confirming the very same thing. I would just like to have from this step a reassurance from you that we will have no additional contract with 'COSCO' in the next few years or a review of the master plan, so that there is no room for this or in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. The timely question will be answered by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr. Ioannis Pakisotakis. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal. Good evening, good week!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to say first of all that there is no question of amending the concession agreement for the Government. Insurmountable and uninterrupted is our support for the four hundred 50 businesses and the thousands of five hundred support operations currently operating in the zone and providing jobs to twenty thousand our fellow citizens and seven thousand periodic jobs. What we are essentially concerned about is improving infrastructure in the area. Our aim is to overcome the problems and create incentives so that we can attract the Greek-owned ships to Piraeus, as well as to the Perama zone. I would remind you - and this is very important - that under the concession agreement, ratified by Law 4404/2016, which concerns ship repair, the existing regime has been reflected in decades, namely that the PPA is the hirer of the ship repair infrastructure and has no involvement or involvement with shipbuilding activities. These activities are only carried out by the ship repair companies under Law 3551/2007. They are the companies that have actually joined this register. Therefore, according to the concession agreement, there are certain activities granted by the State to the PPA and the PPA carries on or exploits them. Therefore, according to the concession agreement, there is no shipbuilding activity and the PPA does not have the right or the possibility to set up a yard. It is therefore absolutely clear to us and it has nothing to do with the provision of ship repair activities. Furthermore, I would remind you that when we approved the revised master plan in the port of Piraeus - and we did so just three months after we had taken over the country's governance - we did not approve of the establishment of a shipyard. I would also like to point out that, according to the new revised master plan in the port of Piraeus, more than EUR 600 million is involved. I am also able to clarify that in accordance with the S.H.E.'s decision. 766/2020, ‘PA S.A.’ is not entitled to proceed with the establishment of a shipyard. The potential of the Supreme Court is essentially to allow the establishment of highly nuisance processing activities in the Perama zone. As the decision of the Attica Region to request the PPA for establishment or shipyard licence was based on the ban on the establishment of the high-noise shipyard in Attica, in essence the decision of the Council of State referred to this matter in the Attica Region. I would therefore like to make it clear that the concession agreement does not provide for the establishment of a shipyard. Secondly, we did not approve in the new revised master plan the establishment of a shipyard and, furthermore, on the Government's side, there is no idea of a revision of the concession agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u39	Thank you too, Minister. Here, Mrs Bakadima, you have the floor for three minutes to answer for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u40	I'm going to need much less, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u41	I wish!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to confirm that the S.H.E. indeed does. It decided that a new high-response activity could not be set up and that, contrary to what applied, a new high-response activity could not be allowed to be established within the limits of the Region of Attica, it no longer exists and the request from the Ministry of Finance, which is also the relevant Ministry, could be re-issued. I would also like to thank you very much for confirming that we will not have either now or in future a new shipyard in Perama, and I hope that we will be here at some other time to discuss the need and the scope for support for workers in the shipbuilding area, because it is a sector which has been hit very much and I very much fear that it will also be hit in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. I've never been able to speak for fifty-seven seconds. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u44	I, Mr President, will be much shorter because I have actually responded to my prototype. I think we're all interested in the development of the Perama zone repair. So what PPA S.A. really needs to go ahead, as it is part of compulsory investment, is improved infrastructure and problem-solving. You know, the development of these infrastructures is included in the mandatory investments of EUR 55 million, including waterway tanks. There is therefore an investment of around EUR 24 million in improving infrastructure in the area. So that is the objective, so that we can deal with the problems and attract the Greek-owned ships to the Perama zone. That should be the common objective of all of us and that is where we intend to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, too, and come back with us in these times. And now we're moving on to the next two questions. The fifth, under number 801/11-6-2020, timely question of the first cycle of the H' Vice-President of Parliament and Members of Parliament B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of Education and Religion, on the subject: 'Unfortunately shrinking the examination centres for the pan-Hellenic examinations' and the second, with a number of at least four hundred candidates for the specific courses', will be discussed at the same time, because they refer to the same subject, without prejudice to the rights of the speakers for the time of their speech in application of Rule 4(4) of the Rules of Procedure. I don't see them very much the same. However, after you agreed to be discussed at the same time, I am not going to speak to you. Mrs Sacorafa has the floor for two minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u46	We agreed, Mr President, that they should be discussed together to make it easier for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u47	Thank you so much, come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u48	Madam Minister, the government said it would take all the necessary measures to protect its citizens. The recent decisions of the Ministry for the Examination Centres of the Pan-Hellenic Examinations of 22 May 2020 are in the very opposite direction and form a completely problematic, I would say, and unacceptable situation. In particular, you reduce the total number of examination centres, remove the school examination centres and obliges all candidates to take examinations to the early inquiries in the early hours of work, abolish the regional examination centres of disabilities and special educational needs and designate centres only in Athens and Thessaloniki. Finally, you are abolishing all regional examination centres outside Athens and Thessaloniki. Minister, the state must ensure equal conditions of participation for all candidates, which you know very well. But you, with these actions, form unequal test conditions for all these classes of students. And I am not talking about the particularly prejudicial conditions for movements in the weather of the coronary, but also regardless of him. Candidates of the above categories living in remote areas or in the islands, even in Crete, are obliged to move, which also entails a financial burden for travel and accommodation, as well as an additional stress factor for them. Respectively, for the candidates of the summer schools, their programming is completely overturned. Madam Minister, I sincerely believe that this is a matter that cannot stand for political or micro-participatory exploitation. At least I would never do that. However, the state has an obligation to facilitate the participation of the students in the examinations and to examine them all equally, and there is no justification for financial savings in order to impose such conditions on the examinations. [[This is where the ending bell of Mrs Vice-President's speaking time is ringing.]] In any case, then, we ask you - and I close, Mr President - whether you intend to look into the matter immediately with the necessary development of the centres of examination on the ground, particularly as regards the pupils of the summer high school, the disabled and the special educational needs and special courses. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Sacorafa. Good evening, Mr Kegeroglu, and good week, just like you, Mrs Sakorafa, for forgetting it. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, as you know, and all of Greece and especially the students and parents, the pan-Hellenic examinations that have started are a critical turning point, a milestone in the lives of students. So the state must, as I believe it is trying to do everything, ensure the best conditions in which children will compete. It is therefore a matter of time for us this year with the burden we have on measures to deal with the pandemic to give that message of security so that children can compete unnecessarily. The examinations for the linear design, French, German, Italian and all special courses, as they are said, are not luxury or are not some misunderstandings. It is a continuation of the written examinations carried out. For the five hundred and sixty-two students from Crete this will be something different, since they will be forced to go to Athens. Of course, they won't go on their own, but with their parents. In the circumstances, therefore, which prevail, I believe that this will be a very difficult and psycho-corruption and, in my view, will create huge problems and unequal conditions for the contestants who will go to Athens from all the islands, because it is not just Crete. However, I must say that the number of students coming from Crete is great. We're talking about five hundred sixty-two students. In Heraklion there are three hundred fourteen, in Lasithi thirty-four, in Rethymnon thirty-five and in Chania a hundred and eighty. This examination may well be organized. on the island. After all, there is a relative obligation from the Constitution to take account of the special circumstances of the islands for any decision or regulatory action taken by all the Ministries. This is an obligation under Article 101 of the Constitution. In fact, the Minister who was here a moment ago, Mr Plakkatakis, who is responsible for the island policy, is also in charge of a council to implement these measures in connection with the additional problems that exist on the islands. So what we want to ask the Minister is whether he intends to organise on the island the examinations for the specific courses for the candidates from Crete. Of course, there are also tests concerning military and police schools, the School of Fire and the Port, where students travel to Athens for sports. Respectively, in Thessaloniki, since Mr. Simopoulos is here, the examinations have not been abolished and will be carried out normally. And they do well, because the distances are long, let alone when the maritime blockade is intruded. Therefore, special attention must be paid to Crete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr Kegeroglu. The current questions will be answered by the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos. Mrs. Kyrame, you have six minutes at your disposal. Good evening. Good week.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u52	Good evening and good week, Mr President. Thank you very much for the reason. Good evening, gentlemen. Thank you very much for your really timely questions and the opportunity to clarify a few points about the centres of inquiry. I also warmly thank you for agreeing to answer your questions together, as I think they contain common points, and that favours a more comprehensive debate on what is very important. I shall start with points raised by Mrs Sakova. You will mention, Madam President, in your question that the total number of examination centres is reduced. The official information of the Ministry is as follows: in 2019, a thousand ninety-two centres were run. This includes general high school, professional high school and physically weak. This year is a thousand - and - fifty - four, sixty - two extra examination centres. Why did that happen? In order to be able to comply fully with the protection and prevention measures dictated by experts. I would remind you that the experts have dictated us a mile and a half, and this has led to more examination centres. Therefore, the total number of examination centres has increased compared to last year, precisely in order to respond to the experts' directives. Secondly, you say that the centres of examination of the summer high school are being abolished. That's not the case. The students of the summer high school are examined in common examination centres with day-to-day general schools but in separate rooms. Therefore, the overall increase in relation to last year's examination centres also applies here, as I said before. You also mentioned that the regional centres of disabilities and specific educational needs are abolished for the examination of PPAALs and are designated for them only in Athens and Thessaloniki. That's not the case. Applicants with disabilities and specific educational needs or specific learning difficulties of the PSC shall be examined, where appropriate, orally at the rating centres designated by a ministerial decision. Where candidates are more than eighty, a decision may be drawn up to define the special examination centres at the regional education centre and in writing examine the ESA candidates. These candidates shall be examined in a separate room. Time may, in fact, be extended by a decision of the Committee of the Examination Centre. In defining the seat of these special examination centres, account shall be taken at the same time of the fact that candidates for the examinations in the PES shall be examined in courses of a number of different specialties, which amount to twenty-five, with a small number of candidates in one of them and sometimes difficulties in the necessary number of examiners. However, a special examination centre has been set for the pan-Hellenic 2020s, and there we have an increase. Where there is a need to move due to a few candidates, there is a possibility of compensation. I now come to the subject of special courses which you both have raised in your question. She says that regional centres for special courses are being abolished and open only to Athens and Thessaloniki. Up to now, special courses, other than the English course, were in fact considered at the Athens and Thessaloniki Examination Centres. Even last year it happened. Indeed, there was provision for special examination centres in Athens and Thessaloniki for English only. But this year the circumstances are particularly special. And precisely because the conditions are special, the Ministry of Education meets these conditions and the anguish of the candidates and their families about the needs of travel when there is a large number of candidates. I am pleased to inform you that we are organizing the addition of certain examination centres across the territory for special courses. By our decision that is expected to be issued tomorrow we recommend additional examination centres specifically for the special courses in Crete, based in Rethymnon, Xanthi and Achaia. The Examination Centre of Rethymno will serve candidates of Crete. Xanthi's examination centre will serve regional unity candidates and Achaia's Examination Centre - Patras and Agrini - will serve the candidates of western Greece, Istanbul and Epirus. Thessaloniki will be considered candidates from Thessaly, western, central and eastern Macedonia outside Xanthi. In the Athens-based Attica examination centres, everyone else will be considered. The oral examiners will be examined in Athens and Thessaloniki. I must point out that efforts are being made to ensure that candidates who are being examined in a special course do not have to spend the night at the site of examination. Therefore, although this has not been the case for at least the last few years, even though it was planned for special courses that the examination should take place only in Athens and Thessaloniki, we, in response to the special circumstances of this year, provide for a special examination centre both in Crete and in Achaia and Xanthi. Mr Kegerolgos, with regard to your question about the Military Schools, the Police Schools and the Schools of Fire Academic and Port Authority, I must point out that this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of National Defence, the Civil Protection of the Citizen, Shipping and Island Policy respectively and does not fall within the scope of the Ministry of Education. However, as far as I know, communications on the preliminary examinations of candidates in these educational establishments have been launched. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u53	Thank you too for keeping time. Mrs. Sacorafa, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister who was kind enough to inform him so thoroughly. What I will repeat, and I said earlier, is that this issue is certainly not a matter on which we can make micropolicy and take advantage of it in this Chamber. I want to write down a few things the Minister said. In the first place, it referred to the number of examination centres which I said were reduced. You don't reduce them, Minister, but unfortunately these are in centres where students can go. It will be very difficult for children in Crete, for example - as I mentioned in the next question I asked you - to come to Athens to give tests. It's a huge issue. On the subject of the PCAs you said that of course they give tests and they normally give to their centres. Yeah, but they give a day-to-day center, and these are working kids. They can't give the hours they work because they normally work. Also, on the issue of the ESDP, you said that the areas had been designated by ministerial decision. Of course you have rightly said that, but again for Athens and Thessaloniki and not for the whole region. What I would like to say, Minister, is that only in Crete, as my colleague said before, we have four hundred eighty candidates. Obviously you know the data for the rest of the country. From a qualitative point of view, it is very serious for the inhabitants of all our islands and the remote regions. They are the islanders, they are the locusts who are tired of listening to inexpensive flattering words - you will allow me to say - from all over the political system, not only now, such as staying in their place and guarding Thermopylae and everything else. In practice, therefore, they strive to live without doctors, without teachers, without teachers, without the necessary infrastructure. Unfortunately, despite the flattery it seems that they will always be the easy victims in terms of dealing with them from the state, as it is now. In fact, we are dealing with them indifferently. They can't come. They don't have the opportunity to be here. I don't want to say that we treat them with contempt. In any case, Minister, the problem is also known to you in all its aspects and you are responsible for giving the solution that is being imposed immediately. Build examination centres in the region so that all these candidate students can be able to participate, they and their families themselves. In the light of this obligation, neither economic nor organizational nor practical difficulties are there any grounds for doing so. This is the government's responsibility to overcome any obstacles to facilitate the participation of all the candidates in the pan-Hellenic examinations and on equal terms. Otherwise I will be allowed to say that you are taking immediate and institutional action against students who should normally have and be at the top of your government and every government at any time. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, too. You're a Vice President and you kept the time. Mr. Kegerolwa, you have three minutes for your dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, what you said was very pleasant. However, it was not clear what courses there would be examination centres. While it seems that you are taking a step, that you accept the existence of a problem and want to give a solution, you will in fact create a secondary problem. The addresses were to operate two examination centres where there is the great mass of students. There are three hundred fourteen in Heraklion and one hundred eighty in Chania. Rethymnon is thirty-five. If you think this is the scientific suggestion that has been made to you, I'll tell you that this recommendation has not been made to you. On the contrary, they were recommended to operate in Chania and Heraklion, which is the great mass of candidates. Now, if you keep in mind that there are some things that require you to go to a third party's examinations for five hundred students who are in different places, tell us in your secondary course. In any case one step is right, but I think you should do it all. In Crete they say the proverb "for a drachma of pepper is lost". That's what you guys do now. What is the logic of moving students to another city from the majority to the examination centres and operating? If you explain it's a scientific suggestion or even a service, I'll accept it. However, I positively record your intention not to be forced to move to Athens and negatively your intention to be forced to spend the night in Rethymno about five hundred families who could test their children in Chania or Heraklion. In any case, you'll tell me it's Crete. Don't see it, though, otherwise, because the problem exists anyway. To unearth and to have this inconvenience as a candidate or a candidate because there is an economic cost? I don't know, I can't explain why that suggestion was. But because you told us that tomorrow you would take the final decisions, I tell you this evening very calmly to contact the training directorates themselves, with the regional directorate and find the best solution, and we will indeed applaud this decision. Be well. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have six minutes at your disposal so that we don't lose the cherry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I think you see that there is every goodwill to find solutions under difficult objective conditions. Mrs Sakorafa, I think it was clear that the examination centres have increased for certain reasons, in order to accurately respect the prevention and protection measures that experts have indicated to us. Just as we did with the operation of schools, we are fully adapting to the expert directives and to the functioning of the centres of inquiry. I repeat: this year we have sixty-two additional examination centres in order to respond to these increased needs, as the experts have been dictated. As far as the PSC examinations are concerned, as I have said before, over the last few years, the PSC examinations have been carried out in the way I have presented, and there is an increased difficulty here, given the very many different specialities - twenty-five - which must be found in each examination centre and be from a different region, in order to protect fully the objectivity and the intactness of the procedure. This is precisely why there are specific possibilities and, of course, the possibility of compensation if there is a need for a movement when it is more than a hundred and twenty kilometres away from the Examination Centre. Regarding Crete, Mr Kegeroglu, you asked me about what lessons. All special courses are provided for in this Regulation, for all special courses which start early July. I think it is very important to stress that this arrangement has not taken place at least in recent years. Traditionally, special courses are given in Athens and Thessaloniki. We, therefore, have found a solution to the emergency situation here. I would like to stress here that the number of candidates in Crete was indeed higher than in other regions, and that is why a specific regulation was envisaged. As far as exactly as it is to become an examination centre specifically for special courses is concerned, there are too many factors which affect this decision. It is the number of candidates, it is the number of monitors - a very important element - as are the particular circumstances in particular with regard to special courses, such as performance music classes and interpretation courses, which want specially designed rooms. There are therefore many factors influencing the decisions, always in cooperation with the regional directors, for exactly where the examination centres will become. I think we did the best we could, respecting precisely the large number of candidates and the particular circumstances of this year, but also those relating specifically to special courses and responding to a real need. For this very reason, as I said before, we established in three additional areas of examination centres in Crete, Patras, Agrini and Xanthi. These will be announced in detail in a ministerial decision to be adopted tomorrow and will provide detailed arrangements for the operation of the examination centres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u59	Thank you so much for all three. The third question, with number 809/15-6-2020, will be discussed in the third round of the Piraeus II Group of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The intense dysosmia chokes daily life in the areas of Keratini - Drapetsonas - Piraeus. Direct withdrawal of licences and removal of the polluting industries in the region.' Mrs Manolakou, you have two minutes at your disposal for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u60	Thank you. It's not the problem today, but it's no longer the problem. This dysosmia in Drapetsonas, Charais, Tabouria, Amphilias, Piraeus at its center and in the wider region lasts for years. Residents, literally, at intervals when they feel dysosmia do not come out of the house, they cannot breathe, they are terribly afraid to breathe. The timely question is on the occasion of an incident. Recently at a primary school, in the 2nd of Drapetsona, it was so intense that the children did not go out in the yard - the teachers did not leave them - nor did they exercise. And neighborhoods really reminded of a gas chamber. It was unbearable, i.e. puncture in the eyes, shortness of breath and others that don't seem macroscopic. Minister, at noon this afternoon, the Vice-President of Piraeus gave us an analysis and the representative of the checks by Democritus - I have it here in front of me - and there was an extensive debate. It was confirmed that, on one hand, benzene is sometimes outside the limits, especially for hot months, but also when it is within limits, this does not mean that it is also beneficial. It's a carcinogen. On the other hand, there are divine volatile substances that are both increased and inhabited daily by the inhabitants and the guilty is photographed by the spatial toxic, from the point where the problem was more pronounced. The guilty party is the ‘OIL ONE’. The residents, with the empirically the colour of the smell in their neighborhoods, make mobilizations outside the door of this industry and meet the same smell. So it is a polluting industry that causes them so much trouble and we do not know what impacts will exist in the medium and long term. They demand the immediate relocation of the "OIL ONE", of course, and the responsibilities of the governments, because since 2013 the Government of New Democracy and PASOK and SYRIZA have been simpler in funding, as well as in New Democracy today. They all supported this company in a variety of ways with permits, extensions of activities, new permits for the storage of fuel oil, full grants, photographic provisions to pass for the stay of the tanks, with a legislative framework cut and sewn to its measures. Also, this company took advantage of a recent law by the current government to request modification and extension of the environmental impact study, of course, to the worst. Because that's what you did with that bill. In other words, it is confirmed once again that the quality of life in the people's neighbourhoods and in total the people's needs everywhere and in the Municipality of Keratini - Drapetsonas and surrounding municipalities are strangled for the profitability of this big businessman. What do we ask of today's timely? Let us know immediately what measures you will take, bearing in mind the results of the most specific of Democritus, to finally stop this afflicting the population so much with substances that smell and some very dangerous substances that do not smell and to withdraw the licenses of the polluting industries in the area, to remove their facilities and to assign the total of six hundred forty acres to the people of the region with expropriation of the entire area without compensation. A free space for residents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mrs Manolakou. The State Secretary for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr. Dimitrios Economou. Mr. Economou, good evening, good week. You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u62	To start from the beginning, from the amosomia. The austerity seems to exist to some extent, i.e. greater or less depending on information, and it is obviously a problem that needs to be addressed to the extent that it exists. There is no discussion about this. But we need to see what data we have. And we also have to make no reasonable leaps. I will clarify that later. The complaints in question have been in existence for about five years. There was environmental approval. Since the previous government in 2018, an extension has been granted. You said now that a particular undertaking - which you are insinuating in any case - has taken advantage of the new procedures under environmental law. These procedures do not concern the investment in question, concern the industry as a whole and not just, but all the activities in Greece, which are subject to environmental licensing. It does nothing but transfer to Greece the practices that exist in other European countries, where European countries and Greece in relation to other countries the level of environmental protection remains much higher. That doesn't mean it's perfect. There is always room for improvement, but we must not forget where we are and where others are. What happened in this particular case? In 2018 the Environment Inspectors made autopsy after complaints and in their findings they found no odor problem or anything else. This year, on 19 May, there was a new autopsy by the Environment Inspectors under the mandate of the Minister for the Environment. This autopsy took place while the facilities were in operation. According to the conclusion, which I will summarise, - I think that is what he says - there have been no perceptions of odors that refer to the plant's productive activity in intensity and duration in relation to the noisiest in the wider region. Short-term and low-voltage emissions with mild hydrocarbon odour were perceived. That's what the Environment Inspectors say. In spite of this, they cannot identify the extent to which they smell unpleasantly or not, because they need special instruments that the Environment Inspectors do not have. I will come back to that. That's their finding. There are also other sources. There is a study ordered by the municipality, which also says there are odor problems and such, but still does not specifically identify the source. There is a survey and a study commissioned by the Attica Region - and today there has been the presentation - which also does not specifically identify the source of odors. You are right to say that benzene exceeds the minimum limit in the wider area, but for odors there is no specific identification of the source, nor for benzene there is a specific identification of the source. But it seems if I understood correctly - because I read it diagonally before I came to the House - that the source not geographically, but sectorally, is oily. There are, of course, other minerals in the region. Geographically - if I remember correctly - it identifies a zone from which these emissions are likely to occur. These are the data they have so far. What will the Ministry of the Environment do? What's he already doing? There are very few laboratories that have the special odor measuring instruments. That's not easy at all. It's the observatory, it's "Democritus", it's the S.H.I.E.L.D. We are therefore entrusting the ADI to take all the material that is available - it will not start from the outset - and after assessing it, it will become autopsies and installation of measuring stations and within units. So far the measurements made have been outside the units. It was also a reason why it is not easy to locate the exact sources. The unsub's going to be counted in units as well. This will be done in the near future. Not to commit, but within the next two months it will have been done. Based on what will happen, we will make the next moves that will include, depending on what will be identified, repressive measures, sanctions and whatever is needed. That's the picture we've got right now. On the other point you raised, I shall speak in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u63	Mrs Manolakos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u64	Minister, as you have said, this is not a new issue, it is a five-year-old issue. And of course this is not the first time that the Communist Party of Greece has brought it into Parliament. I will tell you that the previous government in 2018 gave us an answer that identified the problem, but it had to be identified what is the source and proposed a strategic plan with appropriate periodicity and spatial distribution, where it would carry out checks where there was amosomia and providing suitable equipment for sampling and processing of samples and would promote a programme agreement that would be co-financed by the region and the Green Fund. The programming contract exists, it is the 'Democritus'. Of course, there is no funding from the Green Fund. We would also say that because it has enough resources for the Green Fund to do so and help it go even faster, much faster. That was the answer of SYRIZA, the SYRIZA government. However, we believe that there must be continuity in these issues, because they are popular problems that drown the world. What did you respond to us in the eighth month of 2019? What you said - the environmental auditors carried out an extraordinary partial check at the premises of this company 'OIL ONE'. Inspection has not identified a point of emission of diffuse odours from the production storage facilities in operation. What are you telling us today? That the use of the recent law of the Ministry of the Environment was not photographic for this company. Of course, it was not, but it was for all businesses, because you gave reductions to the environmental conditions they must respect. The first and best were the ones handling oil wastes and the present presentation of the "Democritus" survey accuses mainly of oil. So you're telling us that you're going to assign it to a group of the Aristotle University. What do we know? That the issue has taken too much of this period because of business competition in the region, and that is why a popular problem, if you like, has been widely made public. The Communist Party of Greece from a position of principle supports the interests of the people's classes and the protection of public health. Because I have lived through these odors and at the concert that was held for Paul Physsa and at a concert at the Polychond of Drapetsonas for Panos Javellas, I will say that they come out instantly, they don't last much, with exceptions. It's like a cliff that you say it opens up gas and then reverts to normal. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But this accumulation does not know what impact it has on public health in the medium and long term. If you want, in terms of the quality of life of these people, it literally makes them life unscathed, and that is why they have frequent mobilisations and we will support them. What do we ask of you? We ask for the checks to be carried out immediately and quickly and in combination with all the research institutes, not only 'Democritus'. There's an Observatory.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u65	And that's what you're gonna do, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u66	I shall conclude, Mr President. We call for checks to be carried out to ensure that a specific programme is given, that the inhabitants of these regions are not tortured and that measures are taken to relocate and that it is programmed in a prompt and rapid way and, of course, that the area is given to the people there to be given to take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Economou, you have three minutes at your disposal for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much. After you brought it back, I'll bring it back. We didn't make a discount on environmental conditions. What we have done is that we have provided deadlines which are equivalent to those laid down in the other European countries and, in any case, they are entirely compatible with European legislation and directives. We didn't do anything more, nothing less. From there on, every company can lawfully use these regulations, which do not make any discounts. Whether one particular company, from there on, is in breach of or not, is another matter that we need to see. Evidently, however, it is not the general legislation. I said in detail the image that is currently available from measurements. I would sum up by the fact that there is a sense and there are also estimates of research that we have a few less benzene odours problem, because it can be measured more easily. We don't know exactly the source. Since we do not know the source exactly, there is no question of closing a business or two businesses or three businesses. In order to close a business or put specific fines, you must have accreditation actions which account for that company. I understand what you're saying, I understand the importance of residents, I share it. I do not doubt what you are saying to me, since you say that you are a personal witness to disossalism. Okay. Nevertheless, the state to move must have certain elements, which are not just the assessments of some people. But we'll do it. Because I heard from somewhere, from a KIC MEP again, I think, I don't see very well...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u69	It's another party, but we said when it was going to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u70	It's Mr Alexiadis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u71	SYRIZA? Oh, because we'll do it in two months. You had five years to do it and you didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u72	Not only that, but they've already been subsidised!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u73	That's a joke!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u74	So I answer that in two months...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u75	Please, no dialogue!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u76	This change should have taken place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u77	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u78	With regard to the other point you mentioned, what will happen with the region, I would remind you that there is a reference to the election statement by the Prime Minister to the post of the region. He says something in particular, the Prime Minister will become an innovation centre and a large part of the area will be attributed to common uses. What are we gonna do? At the moment, there is already a planning framework which defines what needs to be done in the region. The Athens Regulatory Plan specifically states that it should be created in the area, about six hundred acres - so you did not say, I think? - a pole with cultural, education, health, sport, green and recreational uses, also with uses directly linked to port activities and at a maximum rate of 0,15. That's what the General Urban Plan says. There is, therefore, a planning framework that we shall follow. It does not mention the planning framework that the whole region should become a free space, etc., but gives concrete directions, obviously in a very positive direction. In that direction, we will move. We may also change this direction a little, but we must be in the context of the planning directions. We're not going to do anything different. As for expropriation without compensation, this is done in totalitarian states. We are not a totalitarian state.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u79	Because it is for the peoples.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u80	You can't compensate for the property of someone you don't like because you don't like it. The opposite of my home bothers me every day, but I don't think I'm going to demand that the state expropriate its property to the contrary because it doesn't like me. So we will follow these procedures. I would remind you that contributors are provided for in the building processes, so a significant part of the land, as it is large property, will go to the public free of charge for use, but obviously there is no question of moving on to something that will be illegal. They will also drive us away from the European Union. You may not mind, but we do. Well, thank you very much. Indeed, we will have a time sooner or later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u81	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u82	Measures to have life in Drapetson, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u84	Be well. Thank you both very much. Mr. Secretary should be left to answer the next question. So we move on to the third with number 807/15-6-2020 a timely question from the Member of the Greek Parliament, Mr. Vassiliou Villiardou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Incentives for the import of electric cars and not for domestic production'. Mr. Villardo, with most of the Greek Solution, you have two minutes at your disposal. Good evening, good week?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, on 5 June the Prime Minister announced withdrawal measures IX and the promotion of sales of electric cars of 100 million euros, which I will submit in the Minutes. This coincided with Germany's simultaneous communication on the Environment Day. However, such incentives did not exist in the original programme of the New Democracy, which had cut the interest of the previous RISK, the SYRIZA Energy Plan for electricity, which predicted 10% in the entire fleet by 2030, i.e. over five hundred thousand electric motors and not 30% in the new ones by then, so much less. In addition, the charging network is less than a hundred, in total contrast with the European Union. You know that. The measures announced are financed with a total of EUR 100 million, with a discount of 5,500 per car, which is translated into sales of about twenty thousand electric cars or 15% of annual car sales, ranging from about a hundred thousand. Most of these electric cars currently on the market are German and especially VOLKSWAGEN, hoping that the measurements on their autonomy or power are reliable, because, as Mr Georgiadis said in our question about Dieselgate, there is no legal protection for consumers and the state, which is certainly not the case. It was just an evasion. However, electric cars may be cheaper in their use, while improving the quality of life of the city due to the avoidance of exhaust gases and noises, but they need electricity. At the same time, our country with more than 80% energy self-efficiency in terms of electricity, most of which was covered by lignite, will probably be electrically dependent on more than 50%, with invaluable environmental damage, both as regards the installation and withdrawal of RES systems. According to a study by the European Environment Agency, which I will testify, electricity will be 10.6% of the demand for electricity in our country in 2050, which will exceed the European Union average. We do not know whether you have made similar calculations, as we think you should. At the same time, Greece is overdebted, faced with a deep recession, twin deficits and national threats, and there is no change in our economic model or incentives, so that we too can produce part of our RES technologies. Our questions here are as follows: First, what is the real reason for the announcements in today's difficult times? Provision of services in Germany? Extortion due to our debts? Secondly, given our liberation and dependence on imported RES and natural gas technologies, as well as the threats from the East, how will energy security of the country be ensured? With electricity the power consumption will increase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Villard. The Secretary of State for Energy, Mr Dimitrios Economou, will answer. Mr. Economou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. What are the reasons for the announcement? There are too many of them. The first is that Greece has one of the most oldest car fleets throughout the European Union. I think we're fourth from downstairs. The second is that transport is responsible for 25% of air pollution. Some IX pollutants are responsible for a much greater proportion, such as for carbon monoxide responsible for around 83% or for suspended particles responsible for 44%. Therefore, transport in general and the IX in particular are enormous. The third is that the negative effects of emissions are double. They are also local, namely air pollution in the city, resulting in problems in people's health, but at the same time some of them are gases that create climate change. Climate change is a terrible threat. Anyone who doesn't understand it will have to understand it soon enough. I would remind you that if we have a very small overrun of the rise in average temperature by 2050, that is, instead of having 1.5% - at the moment we are on the limit - the consequences for the whole world and for Greece will be appalling with losses of billions of people. It is therefore something with which we are not playing climate change. Electricity drive in cars reduces these pollutants, which also locally have negative effects on the health of residents and on a planetary level are increasing the problem of climate change. So what's going on? In all European countries, the solution given is to subsidise electric cars. That's what we do. That is what the government does, it does nothing different from what everyone else does, and that is self-evident, because if we do not have electric cars, the current situation, which is disastrous and harmful, will continue. So I don't understand what the problem is. Now, on the point that some electric cars are produced by Germany. So, what do we do? Because they're produced by Germany, are we going to stay with the diesel? I wish it would be produced by others. I wish that the increased demand that will already exist will create greater competition in the market - we all want that, every reasonable person - but we cannot say at this time that if they are produced in Germany, we will not take them into the eye. Because we're going to go into the eye on them, but we're gonna have trouble too. Therefore, this is not convincing as argument. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Because I'm out of time, I'm going to go on with my denology. I don't want to abuse time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Villard, you have the floor for three minutes, to give a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much for the answer, Minister. Justifications definitely exist. Here, today is climate change. We all know. We do not, however, believe that these are the real reasons why you have made this decision. Let me remind you that the same subsidy was granted by Germany in 2010 at the time when it had to increase production with normal cars. We do not, however, produce electric cars and that is Greece's big problem. Let's go down. Mr. Mitsotakis announced the above on the background of the first and only electric car, the Enfield 8000, built in Guinea in Neorio. The car was developed in the oil crisis in a contest by the British Electricity Agency, which he won. In his design they had largely contributed Greek scientists, which substantiates the potential of the Greek workforce. There's no will. However, it closed in 1975, because the New Democracy government then did not support it. For example, he was never licensed, no tax incentives were given to get Onassis to "OLYMPIAKI" and much more, as members of the company said in documentaries that were filmed with this topic. In 1995, the highly successful "TIRIAR" in Volos, the company that had the first "NISSAN" plant in Europe, collapsed. Also, ‘BIAMAX’ and other smaller ones, the ‘ELVO’ that can build buses, but is inactive, while the ‘NAMCO’ is still trying to relaunch the PONY. It's actually a crime thing. Photographing Mr Mitsotakis with the Enfield 8000 is a shame, in our view. It would be more honorable to announce the support of German electric cars with a backdrop of a German car, such as Mr Hatzidakis at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. It should invest in the development of Greek production of these 100 million, if anything, to support the electric tricycle, which is in the licensing phase, not serve the German interests. This would be a real development plan for Greece, which can but always suffer from its governments. Announcing a 5% reduction in the tax rate from profits a company will have when and if it finds funds to start production, it is totally stupid. Besides, which company has profits in the first few years to pay tax? It is shameful that Greece should belong to those few countries in Europe, such as Albania, which do not even produce car parts in a total of two hundred ninety-eight factories in Europe, according to information from the Union of European Automotive Industrys, which I will present in the Minutes, despite the fact that there are proposals from domestic companies, and in some areas of electric car, such as battery production, aid is allowed, let alone when Turkey is the main producer of cars for the European Union with 4% of its imports or 24.6 billion unpunished, having already presented an electric car of its own design. Investments are needed by Greece in production, since only in this way will our young people stop leaving their homeland frustrated. The Prime Minister, however, calls on the Germans to benefit from the closure of lignite units unregulated. Our questions here are as follows: First, do you intend to provide funds or invest through state industries in the production of electric vehicles, taking advantage of the efforts of researchers in the area? Secondly, are you seeking foreign investors willing to invest in the production of electric cars in Greece or are you simply supporting German exports? Is there any news from Mr. Georgiadis that she wanted to bring to Greece the VOLKSWAGEN plant, or about the discussions she had with the 'TESLA' which she has a workshop in Democritus? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, too. Mr. Economou, you have the floor for three minutes, just to give a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u91	Thank you. Mr. Villardo, because I didn't listen very well, did you say state or electricity?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u92	Private companies, obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u93	No state factories?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u94	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u95	As I have not heard it correctly, I have asked you to clarify it. As you have raised many issues, I have to answer a number of points. For German cars, I answered. It's not just Germany, it's not just Germany that makes electric cars. In any case, if only Germany makes electric cars, bad for our head. We have to do it, too. You're absolutely right. They closed factories that they produced in the past with alpha or beta way cars, but the national industry has collapsed in general. Car factories are a small subset of the industry that has collapsed. Its collapse is due to the populism of the industry forty-four years, on all sides. So it is a more general problem that exists. I just want to say that one of the first priorities of the government is to increase the rate of industry in the Gross Domestic Product. It is also a European objective but also a national one. To do this, it takes a series of measures that you will see very soon. There are already, but there are other important things. However, it is a basic government priority. We agree here on a target. Okay, we might disagree in the middle. When there's a particular subject, we should talk about it. As far as the country's energy independence is concerned, look, when the traffic of older cars is limited, which burn very large quantities of liquid fuels, this increases the country's energy independence, it does not reduce it. What are these imported oils replaced by? Because they're imported. They are replaced by electricity, with electricity, which is largely domestic. They are largely domestic, and will be even greater, because for the government it has a high priority and it takes concrete measures, through renewable energy sources. So we are replacing an imported fuel, which increases our country's energy dependence, with electricity production, which is largely internally produced. So what you said is not true. From there on, electric cars are much more efficient energy. So this also reduces general energy consumption. This is important and if we look at planetary levels for climate change, of course, from the point of view of Greece's independence. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] To close here on the issue of defoliation. Look, serious talking about climate change and saying that the exploitation of lignite must continue is by definition contradictory. Climate change is a very high priority, perhaps the world's most important priority and the closure of lignite plants - faster than we are obliged to do - is a contribution by Greece first of all to this global objective. In addition, however, there are other aspects to this issue. One aspect is that lignite-using plants have very high costs and have ceased to be profitable. Proof of this is that within a year lignite electricity production fell from 32% to 4% of total electricity production and the share of RES increased from 27% to 4%. So I said 32% with 4% and 27% with 44%. So we see that within less than a year of what the government has taken is already under way. It's not something that's going to happen in the future. It is currently happening with obvious positive consequences and economic and development. I would also remind you of the huge sums that come from European funds precisely because we have taken the initiative to move forward with deprivation. And, of course, the share of RES is already increasing. Therefore, it also contributes, beyond all the other issues and the country's independence from imported fuels and climate change. As far as I am concerned, I will not come back here because I forgot to tell you before and will close - the measures we take in the field of demand for electric motors are one aspect of the measures. Another aspect is the measures provided for in the development law on the creation of industrial units. The growth of electric motors will increase market demand, thus making it more sustainable either the production of potentially electric cars over a period of time or the production of spare parts and the whole range of the production chain linked to electricity. The infrastructure needed for electricity generation, i.e. cables, etc., is largely produced here in Greece and will be produced even more. So on an economic basis the measures taken by the government are also pushing towards growth and our industry. I understand that the concerns are reasonable and well-meaning, but I don't think they have a basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u96	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Thank you both. Mr. Villardo, do you have any documents to testify for the Minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u97	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u98	We move on to the first with number 815-15-2020 topical question by MP I Eastern Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) kouroliakou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: “Substantial protests by artists to exclude them from the “All Greece a Culture” programme. Mr. Darkdog, you have two minutes at your disposal. Good evening. Good week.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u99	Also, Mr President. Thank you very much. As you said, the theme is "Substantiated protests by artists to exclude them from the program “All Greece a Culture”. Mr President, in the past few days, the Minister of Culture has announced a new pilot project called "All Greece a Culture", with actions of contemporary culture in the archaeological sites and in the open spaces of the museums, triggering the surveillance bodies of the Ministry. Following these announcements, intense reactions have emerged from the artistic world, the unions, the Pan-Hellenic Association of Organisers of Cultural Events, the Pan-Hellenic Federation of View and Accuracy and the representatives of the 'Support Art Workers' movement, who, by letters, denounce the Ministry of Culture for opacity, direct assignments to the supervising bodies and to the specific producers, creating the sense of a closed circuit, lack of design and handicraft in artistic design. Despite the communication efforts of the Ministry to convince us that it operates in the light of the needs of the majority of the artistic world but also of society, all it has achieved is to unite all the people of culture with regard to the policies of the Ministry. So they ask her to withdraw this project and to form it in cooperation with the whole of the artistic world. In view of the above, the Minister asks whether she intends to listen to the reactions of all artists and to formulate a plan that meets the needs of the time. In order to prevent misunderstandings and misunderstandings, I would like, Mr President, to make it clear that we are not here as art critics. We don't judge faces and their works. We are judging the way in which the assignments were awarded and whether public money was given the same opportunities to all citizens, transparently. Could all Greek citizens claim the assignments transparently or were decided on behind closed doors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, too. The question will be answered by the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendoni. Mrs. Mendoni, good evening. Good week. You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u101	Good evening, Mr. President. Good week, I wish. Thank you very much, Mr Papoutsis. It is clear that the health crisis has created unprecedented conditions for all, which the government has managed with absolute success, taking the international credit for its operations. Since the beginning of the crisis, the Government and the Ministry of Culture have taken care to deal with the complex problems of creators and artists, as we have been in front of an uncharted landscape and with a variety of working relationships that in many cases concern grey and black work. At the same time, he has arranged for development measures for the cultural and creative sectors and for the production and dissemination of high-quality content, so that citizens do not cease access to culture. For many years, I stress that workers in the cultural sector have been treated by the government with the same interest as all workers have been treated. The koroni pandemic gave the Ministry of Culture the opportunity to speed up the development of the "All Greece a Culture" programme, based on two necessities. The first was, coming out of the affliction of the coronary and entering normality, to offer as many areas as possible to Greece - so to as many citizens and visitors as possible - cultural events of high quality and aesthetics. The second was to create employment conditions for artists, creators, technicians and support staff who have problems in their work this year. Thus, we have addressed the surveillance bodies of the Ministry and, in turn, other bodies, with whom they cooperate in the free market, in order to establish this year's programme, which obviously takes into account all the safe working protocols of the archaeological sites and events. I note that the Ministry of Culture has the complete opportunity to entrust to supervised bodies any programming for any purpose that does not conflict with the organisation's statute. After all, in accordance with the legislation governing the supervised bodies of the Ministry, the artistic directors of the cultural institutions are solely responsible for the training of the artistic programming they always plan freely within the budget approved by the Ministry. Furthermore, they have the undisputed authority to legally confer, according to their personal criteria, on artists and creators the production of artistic works, as defined by law. We know very well that these events have already been embraced by a vast world. These events won't have a ticket. The only price will be the entry ticket to the archaeological site. When I asked the supervising bodies to produce this programme, I gave only one directive: to use to the greatest extent external partners from the free market in order to give employment to people who will be less employed this year than usual. This is valued in these performances by seven hundred and fifty artists and technical staff and about five hundred local partners. In other words, the external partners of the supervised bodies amount to 91%. 91% is from the free market. I repeat, that was the only directive I gave. It is clear that with the current data, as formulated by the pandemic, only the supervised bodies of the Ministry could carry out the project because they have the necessary know-how, resources and tools. As I have said many times, this programme has been designed to be an annual institution and not to be temporary. That is why I have already announced that for next year, in 2021, the platform will be opened from 1 October to the end of November, in order to support the open invitation to be issued. That'll be the rule. However, this year, due to the limited time, the programme should be implemented in accordance with the procedure I described through the supervised bodies. This is an absolutely legitimate process, which is done with absolute transparency. The procedure, which was required, was therefore no other than the assignment of the task of selecting the most competent, i.e. the artistic directors of the supervised bodies. Cooperation with the artistic directors has ensured, on the one hand, transparency, on the other hand, that we have a quality cultural summer, unless, Mr Tsialis, Tsiara, Tsikanos, Tsokanos, Kolovos, and on the other hand, if you or SYRIZA disputes beyond the abilities and ethos of Lignandakis, Koumentakis. If that's the case, say it directly. Otherwise, there are no programs behind closed doors.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Darkdog, you have three minutes at your disposal for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u103	Minister, read what you had noted without taking into account that I said before that we are not art critics here, but we are for another job, about how you share the public's money. So put aside both Lignade and Quentakis and everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u104	You said it, not us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u105	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u106	So I will answer you with the words of the workers themselves. You spoke of two hundred and fifty one events in eleven cultural organizations that will cooperate and host in one hundred and eleven archaeological sites. Not SYRIZA, but the workers themselves, the "Support Art Workers" respond that after the presentation of the program "All Greece a Culture", which was initially presented as a programme of two hundred events, finally contains fifty five productions. You know, the crowd of producers is interested. Because that's where people will work. If a production is played five hundred times, it's something. However, the important thing is that there should be a wide range of producers to channel a great potential of artistic art. In any case, these are the things that the street knows about. A Minister for Culture should have been informed about this. They say: "We conclude that the policy of the Ministry of Culture is not aimed at developing and defending culture or supporting workers". I repeat, these are not my words, they are workers. "In fact, it is only in the communication camouflage of the problems that have emerged strongly because of the pandemic." So we're going on. You are talking about 2 million in total budget. And you tell us that it will be all next summer and this program and other nice and promising. The answer is that the EUR 2 million fund is too small compared to the EUR 15 million that you promised at first. You forgot now. There aren't any. So all we know is that the vast majority of workers in the 'independent' cultural asset produced are excluded. This programme was advertised as an initiative by the Ministry of Culture and is implemented by the supervised organisations in the same way as the programme's artistic work is planned, that is, not by an open call of interest, but by direct awards from the agencies themselves, a time when the demand for transparency is more imperative than ever. So we said they'd take over the National Theatre, the Lyric Scene all this story. So you are answered by the Board of Directors of the Hellenic Association of Greek Creators "METON", the Board of Directors of the Association of Creators "MAMA 450), the Board of Directors of the Pan-Hellenic Association of Greek Singers, the Board of Directors of the Association of Cultural Events. And after all these employees say that the Ministry's announcements of these actions were negatively surprised, they continue to say that instead of the Ministry of Culture to define procedures and deadlines transparent in submitting proposals for artistic actions and to set up a committee of high prestige, always in collaboration with Greek artists to evaluate them, they preferred the direct assignments of organizing artistic events from which most of the important artists and performers who are successfully active in the field are absent. The authors themselves continue: "This outrageous development obliges us to denounce vertically the choices of the Ministry of Culture which we regard as authoritarian, essentially illegal and out-of-place. I don't know what you have to answer these charges to the creators. "We ask for their complete cancellation..." the authors say, and on a new and healthy basis, a review of the initiative, which is supposed to have been chosen to strengthen Greek artists because of the enormous burden on their work due to the pandemic. And they conclude, saying that "the money managed by the Ministry of Culture reminds us that it belongs to the entire Greek people and is not a personal property of any factor". They're making more findings. I will also present you with a letter of about twenty AMKE, the letter of all unions and the details of ELSTAT saying that the turnover in arts and entertainment has decreased by 93%. They therefore conclude that all these employees, all employees and record in the absence of any notice and direct delegation to specific bodies. It notes the creation of a fully centralised committee. He notes that a power concentration treaty is being created around specific artistic directors who decide who will do so. You yourself said, according to their own criteria. They point to the continuing devaluation of the modern dance industry. They note the presence of artists in more than one production and denounce clandestineness in artistic design. Madam Minister, it doesn't surprise us. We live in times, and we have the government of direct assignments. Media advertisements, a campaign of tourism, decontamination of prisons, in everything, in art, the actions go directly assigned. Decently, then, bring the name of the government that operates exclusively by direct assignments. There are no equal opportunities for public care. It must be said that it is not acceptable for the government to decide who will be fruitful of public wealth and who will be excluded, because simply jobs are done by direct delegation to those who are chosen by the government, the Ministry, the supervised bodies through the directors appointed by the government. It is time for the government to finish this process of direct assignments, this addiction to direct assignments and much more in the field of art. All artists are in front of you and expect you to be interested. You haven't been interested yet. They are announcements and declarations you make, which concern very few people. I had the opportunity sometimes to tell you and you keep doing it like you don't understand what's going on. What happens is that state money goes to specific people and other Greek citizens have no right to claim a share of this story.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much. Mrs. Mendoni, you have three minutes at your disposal for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much. It is at least funny to accept immoral-type advice if we only look at yesterday's and today's topicality with all kinds of dialogues that have not been made public since the previous years of your own governance. On the other hand, I must say that I see a weakness in addition, because we have responded on several occasions to the 15 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u109	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Darkness, he didn't interrupt you anywhere. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u111	Mr Darkness, I am surprised that despite the answers, written and oral, you have received, you are not in a position to sum up both the notices and the invitations, to see that they exceed 15 million, they have reached 21, that there are committees everywhere, that there are invitations and invitations everywhere. But it seems your memory is too short or confused. As also, little to go around in a dictionary sees the difference in the word "production" with "experimentation". Because we talked about two hundred and fifty one events, they are two hundred sixty-one in fact. There are other events and other productions. Production is sixty one. The events that are also called actions, they are also said to be presentations, are two hundred sixty-one. The artistic organizations involved are 12, the archaeological sites are one hundred nineteen and the regional units are forty-three. In other words, a programme that is spread throughout Greece. One of this. Secondly, in order to reassure your late concern for the artistic world, in addition to the immoralities, I would remind you that the creation of the institution is making programme statements. In other words, if it were not the pandemic, the institution would have been, because we have said so in the programming statements. Whether you like or not, Greece has a unique comparative advantage. It has a unique network of archaeological sites and monuments that can accommodate modern actions and creations of all forms of art. The association and conversation of the cultural stock with modern creation lead to the upgrading of the cultural asset, as well as the tourist product and the country's tourist identity. This is what we need today more than ever and that is why we need to take advantage of our comparative advantage in strengthening our economy. When thanks to the manipulations of this government which, uh, the miracle, the majority of your voters, Greece has become internationally an absolutely safe destination. So this programme, Mr Skourico, in accordance with our programme statements, is intended to highlight and contribute in this way. I repeat, as much as you wish to blind yourself: 91% of all human resources have been exploited by the free market that would otherwise have no work. So because we have insisted on all 15 million and on the others you have read, I tell you that this programme is independent of 15 million. We have said that, and we have said it before. You obviously have a difficulty understanding it. In any case, however, your interest in culture is reflected in the amount of general government expenditure that your government spent in 2018 on culture and was only 0.3%. As a result, Greece has been in the last place the cultural expenditure of the Member States of the European Union. That's not what I'm saying, Mr. Darkness. That's what EUROSTAT says.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u112	Expose...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u113	Stop who's exposed and who's not exposed. They're judging by others. In any case, come with right data, using the numbers and the actual data and not what you want to twist, let's see. In the end it'll look. Besides, can I tell you something? I've said it before. You are on your own here and you are defending the cultural policy of your governments and your party. Four Ministers for Culture, of which three were candidates, were unable to elect MPs. He's saying that!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Minister. We continue with the fourth with number 804/12-6-2020 current question of the first cycle of the Greek Parliamentary State, Mr. Vasiliourdou, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Highest bank commissions and 30% electronic income trading". Mr. Villardo, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, as you know, we asked the Treasury at the outset the question that it considered unauthorised to answer, which is something we do not agree with. I would ask you in advance not to say that you cannot interfere with bank charges because of your ideology of a free market. It is not a free market, but a oligopoly, since the four major controls over 90%. Furthermore, they have been based on taxpayers' money, with more than 40 billion euros added to the debt, plus 17 billion deferred taxes that we will pay, plus 12 billion of the HARAKLIS project. This means that you have every right to intervene as a representative of the Greeks. That's much less when they're begging, as we're going to substantiate. Finally, they are also supported by 30% of the compulsory expenditure on income imposed by the State, which is unacceptable and contrary to the rules of the free market. The question now of high bank supplies has been a number of times. It was mentioned during the briefing of the House by Mr Stournara in February, which he supported, possibly based on the Commission's latest assessment, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes, that supplies are low. However, even though the study finds that supplies are low compared to Europe, it admits that banks have no bank income or fund management such as large European banks. So it is about half the truth, which is half the lie. We note here that under the mandate of the lenders, the banks sold their regional activities and to a large extent their subsidiaries in the emerging Balkan market, in which Greek businesses together with the banks had a remarkable activity that was lost along with their profits. For example, the National Bank had net revenue from commissions of EUR 686 million in 2009 at group level and EUR 259 million at the bank, as I will deposit in the Minutes, while in the year 2019 it had only EUR 255 million at group level and 224 at the bank. Therefore, commissions, as a percentage of revenues, have certainly increased. Total procurement forecasts of the four systemic banks amounted to EUR 1,25 billion in 2019, as much as in 2018 or 16,6% of their revenues, at a higher level than in 2009, which accounted for 13,9% of their revenue. In particular, the commissions from the cards and retail banking transactions are estimated to exceed EUR 500 million in 2019 or about 7% of their total revenue. In fact, banks have lost many banking operations and thus charged higher commissions to the rest. Our questions here are as follows: First, do you intend to limit the bank supplies, especially in terms of electronic transactions, let alone when these transactions are imposed through tax fines and incentives? Secondly, are you in a position to impose it or not after the banks have now been left behind? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. The Minister for Development and Investment will answer Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis. Mr. Georgiade, good evening, good week! You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, it is very interesting how you put the question in your prototype because, in addition to the written question you tabled, you are trying to understand and what we are going to say. Let us have a free conversation, leaving a moment to whether they took 1,2 billion or 1.3 billion and go to the core of your debate. You come to Parliament - and not only you, but other colleagues from other parties, and I think this is the third time I have answered the same question - and you say that bank charges are excessive. Isn't that the main argument?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u118	I've substantiated it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u119	Your proof was that our lenders had us sell the regional investment of the Greek banks. It's true in part or in whole. This does not, however, concern this debate and the fact that since they have smaller general activities, more electronic transactions take place in that sense. So listen. The debate on banks is the easiest debate to be held by a Member of Parliament. For what? Because all people want to get things free and everyone else get money. So what does the Greek people say today? Half of it says: 'Pass the banks to give loans'. In fact, SYRIZA says without criteria and whoever gets into the bank goes out with money. The other half Greek people say we don't pay anything at the bank because we want to get it for free. Are we serious about this? This is a parliament. We're not gonna do what they say now at the cafeterias. The answer is very simple: the charges in Greece are not excessive. Why isn't it too much? Because we need to set a criterion on how we judge whether the charges are excessive. So we're in a banking union. We're not alone. We compare with another family of banks with the respective systemic banks of the other euro area countries. So let's compare not only - take care - as a percentage of the turnover, let's say it like that. Because what you said and answered Mr Papadimoulis the relevant Commission of the European Union is that in the Greek banking system this is half the difference between the European system. In other words, in a total turnover of European systemic banks from the tariffs, from the fees they make for transactions and electronics and non-electronics, all other European banks receive 35% of their turnover from these transactions, while Greek banks collect 16% of their turnover from them. So, in the first criterion, in comparison, we're under half. But as far as unitation is concerned, we are under half. Well, good, then. We are a family of banks with other European countries and at a specific charge we are - with whatever criterion to take it - under half and constantly reproducing the debate that we have excessive charges? What do you want now? Do you want, on the one hand, to force the banks to give loans and, on the other, to tell the banks to operate with losses and, on the other, to say that the banks have a problem and we have to make a recapitalisation because they are redundant and to turn around - around our tail? The government intervened in bank charges. Reduce bank charges. They took back bank charges they had announced, precisely because we considered them excessive. This was in November of last year. After these interventions, then, the bank charges in Greece are well below the European average. Now let's go to one last. There is a special point in electronic transactions. The information we can have today is 2019 data. And I don't want to laugh at you because I respect you. Obviously in the course of the crisis - I mean the latest, the COVID - 19 electronic transactions have increased too much. Therefore, in this sense, a debate on whether, in the new light of the high growth in electronic transactions, there should be a more favourable approach to the client in this part of banking charges, that is a reasonable debate at the outset. As far as the competition you are about to annul is concerned, I will say that, as the Minister responsible, we have, as you know, ordered control over the competition of banks. If you remember, a few months ago, the Competition Committee had also been attacked at all the offices of the large systemic banks, which had never been done in Greece before. They've collected the evidence. The Competition Committee will make a memorandum. I cannot come here to the House and say very clearly that competition is not working, because if competition is not working, I have to put fines and fines, I have to be ruthless.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u120	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u121	Whether the competition works or not, you won't tell me either, though. The guy in charge will tell me. Who's in charge? The Competition Committee. If the Competition Committee reaches a conclusion that they have harmonised practices, you can be sure that we will be there to act in a way that no one will have to tell us. We are well aware of doing our job, and what is our responsibility, but this will be based on real elements and not just because we have to say it to the House for unwritten impressions. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Villardo, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much, Minister, for the answer. I would only ask you to read in the Minutes what I shall be tabling, because of course the percentages I am saying are oral and we cannot follow them. What you said about electronic transactions is, in fact, very interesting and I wish you could do something in this area. We want something better for Greece. Now, in my dentistry, bank commissions seem percentage low in total revenues, not only because many banking jobs have been lost, as I said before, but also because they are much higher than interest income compared with other countries. Greece has the highest net interest margins in Europe. I will prove it by depositing it in the Minutes, which are calculated in terms of the bank's interest-bearing assets. According to recent bank announcements, about 2.5%, as you will see. This is much higher than the European Union's average estimated 1.45% by the European Banking Authority, as we will also table in the Minutes. In fact, the net interest margin is high in Greece over 2% over time, which means that the percentage of bank supplies in their total profits of 16% coexists with twice as much of the bank's interest-rate operations as with the other European banks. If, therefore, the margins of their interest-rate operations were reduced to European levels, i.e. about 1.4%, then their commissions as a percentage of the total would increase to 24%, substantiating that it is a purely numerical issue, so the figures can say half of the truth or half of the lie. In conclusion, therefore, not only are the supplies of the Greek banks, but also their margins from interest, literally murdering the competitiveness of our businesses, as well as not offering the funding that our economy needs to develop, according to the BSE study table, which we will also submit in the Minutes. Furthermore, red loans - and they are not going to - have not been refined and will not be increased by the recession envisaged. At the same time, banks have significantly reduced their operating costs, having reduced their staff by 40%, from sixty thousand to forty thousand, their stores by 50%, from four percent to two hundred - I will say why - and the ATMs by eight and a half thousand to three hundred, with great differences over other countries, as we will also present in the minutes, with the population per bank store, per ATM and per bank employee. Logically, therefore, there is aggregation in their shops and affliction of their customers, while the banks invested 1 billion euros in their electronic systems at the expense of their loans. Greece, as is the case in many other sectors, therefore has the worst bank service at the highest cost in the European Union, while banks are scandalously supported by the government, by all governments through the tax obligation imposed by the latter on electronic payments equal to 30% of the costs of the Greeks. That's exactly why I wanted to ask the question at the Ministry of Finance, as I told you at the beginning. Even the head of the European Central Bank has accused these tactics of the government of banning cash, as we will also be tabling in the Minutes. Our questions here here are: Why are you on the way to the supply and high interest rates for banks' inexpensive speculation instead of providing competitive financing that meets the needs of the real economy? Why do you support them through tax incentives or penalties for not using plastic money? Secondly, will you reduce the tax penalty for 30% of electronic transactions on income, especially because of the pandemic, so that you can support the households, the lowest and especially the small and medium-sized enterprises that are suffering? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Villardo. Here, Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Comrade, I'll start with the last one. It's the Ministry of Finance, so I can't tell you what we're going to do. But I can tell you why we did it. We didn't do it to strengthen the banks. You're making a big mistake. Electronic transactions do not benefit the banks, but the state, the same state you serve. For what? Because when you make an electronic transaction, you can't hide your income and your expenses. So electronic transactions are basically fighting tax evasion, black money. You're very clever - and I believe it - so you don't understand it. If we could make 100% electronic transactions and there was no cash at all, there would be no black money in Greece. This was partly achieved and was a positive side-effect of capital control in the first period after the referendum, which had all turned to electronic transactions, and thus largely reduced black money. So the motive isn't the banks' benefit. The motive is the benefit of the state. And you cannot be in favour of black money and black economy and be a MP. Apparently there's some misunderstanding between us. So take this whole piece back, it's embarrassing. Now we're going to the major, where the trade is. You made a very nice placement. What did you say? After the prototype it appeared that the piece of supply transactions did not come out, you returned to see whether the Greek banks charged more interest than the other European banks. Well, there's a nice question for you to ask. That's not the question today. I would like this debate to be held in the House, in other words, as to whether the Greek banks ultimately have a higher interest margin than the other European countries. It's obvious they have a higher interest rate. However, they also borrow more money they borrow. They, or at least they have until recently had a larger country risk than the other European countries, which adds further to their on-site. So the truth here, and I'm not sure you're completely wrong. I want to be honest. However, this will be a good debate and much more useful to the citizens than the one that comes and comes back again and again on the transactions which we have answered a hundred and fifty times. Now, as far as the latter is concerned, that you do it out of love in Greece, I would like to tell you that we all love Greece here. And whoever loves Greece obviously does not want the banks to be destroyed. That's what we've been through. This, about the bank, that the governments are scandalously favouring the banks, we lived in 2015. We are near the anniversary of the abominable referendum. So we all know the most ridiculous and failed referendum of all time, all states, all planets, all galaxies! And what did we understand after this referendum? Whatever the banks fall, the whole state falls. Then they figured it out! Because when the banks fall, our statements fall and if our statements fall, we're all closed. So leave populism here to us now. We've lived through this. The banks were supported by all the governments, as you rightly said, as far as they fell, they would take us all with them. And they went to fall mainly because they had to have their funds available to bonds of the Greek government, which were tired during the PSI and the first Memorandum. So we are now returning to the debate of normal people. Yes we will have banks, yes banks will have charges, yes banks must have profits and yes we do not want banks that are problematic. Because if we have banks without profits and banks problematic, our pockets are destroyed, our economy is destroyed. To debate now if competition is to function, I repeat, very gladly. When the conclusion of the Competition Committee comes out and we have it, I assure you that we will have this debate. But until we have this finding, everything we say here is gossip. And I, as Minister of Development, will not gossip on whether or not the competition between the banks works. When those responsible for whether or not competition works, we are going to have this debate. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] Needless to tell you, a Priori in the phase we are now, until the conclusion comes out, I as Minister will tell you that, in my opinion, the market is working. Because if I thought anything else, we'd have a big problem. However, we expect the conclusion of the Committee on Competition and then we will be here to discuss competition between them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u126	Finally, we now move on to the fifth under number 820/15-2020, a topical question for the second cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Signant proposals from business operators in the Region of Crete, to support work and business". Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the PASOK, the Change Movement has chosen from the first moment to have a responsible attitude in the face of this crisis. With experience and in 2009 we supported scientific suggestions, judged government decisions, but at the same time proposed measures and actions that would lead to lowering or reducing the level of recession and, above all, to lowering the level of the recession. It is very important to say that today there are European conditions and it is up to us to deal with the crisis, despite the fact that the situation is too difficult and we are not talking about a simple matter. After this first phase, with cooling and assessing the performance of the measures, we can say that there are too many gaps, that there are social groups, workers, professionals and businesses that do not have such support. Of course, there have also been measures for which evaluation is positive and I shall refer specifically to them. What we want today is to strengthen the measures that are going well and to correct the problems where they are not going. Because we are investing in achieving the measures, Minister. We are not investing in the failure of the measures, because failure of the measures will affect the large mass of citizens and especially the weak and small and medium-sized ones. With this, then, we are telling you that we should be given the opportunity to participate as far as the repayable advance it has achieved - because others are not intervening, it is direct and without bureaucracy - more businesses and inclusive professionals. With regard to the question of TEIX II, which is very important, and the eighteen thousand applications announced before days that they had been submitted, from which ten thousand to twenty-five, I would like to say that they relate to a serious sum of 1,29 billion, 1,290,000, 000, but the needs are much more. The package should therefore be economically strengthened. And here there is a contradiction. Everyone says it's the banks' fault they don't approve and have tight criteria. But the bank's tight criteria in this case exist because the amount is not unlimited. If they send all the loans to the Development Bank, it will obviously not be possible to assess and satisfy them. So there is a need for an increase in the TPIX budget from other areas. As far as the checks are concerned, a solution was given, but it was temporary and it did not have a major impact as a temporary measure. Now, in the draft economics, the extension of this measure is being discussed. Unfortunately, however, the problem is not just to lighten the payer. The problem is for the man who has the check in his hands, and he won't get the money. Here, therefore, we need an interim financial instrument. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We used to say, and it applies to the measure of the advancement of the cheques. It is now the payroll, that is to say, to take the money on time and pay it for the other person, when he can, of course, be at the corresponding cost and through the financial instrument with the corresponding guarantees. This tool doesn't have the banks. They have the discount tool, but they don't have the credit card. And I'm closing my lead by mentioning a word about the Development Bank. Unfortunately, with twenty, twenty-five people, the Development Bank cannot play its part nor the one that exists from the founding law nor the one described and the intermediate laws that have formalised it and put it into operation. We need a wider support. We are therefore waiting for your answers to enable the Development Bank to support entrepreneurship as well, but at the same time to see measures to support labour and small businesses, because that is the problem today and the depth of the recession must be as small as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u128	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u129	Mr Colleague, first you know I mean it. I would never believe that you especially would folk or not be on the right side of history. I have no reason to hide it. With Mr. Kegeroglu, he connects me with friendship and appreciation. I appreciate him for what he's been doing these years in the House and he's very worthy of what he's doing. That is why I will specifically answer one by one of the things you ask me. I would like your attention, Mr Colleague, to have a constructive debate. The advance was extended until the 26th day of the month. Criteria have also been broadened for companies without workers, i.e. those with a cash machine, for example taxi drivers or cantins. So who doesn't come in alone? The free professionals that are another thing. Therefore, the criticism we received during the first period of the repayable advance is that because we had connected the repayable advance with the number of employees, and so we had ruled out individual businesses without workers, it was answered in the second cycle. So to a large extent we are already answering your question. I would like to say that I really call on all small and medium-sized enterprises to apply to receive the repayable advance. It's an easy tool. Money is credited directly through Taxisnet to their account. It's a direct liquidity, easy for business. I say this because this has happened to me. I was invited to a TV show one night at the "KONTRA" with Mr. Pappa. There was a businessman, a restaurant from Plaka. He said "I want two grand to open my shop and the government won't give it to me." And when I asked him, "Why did we cut you off the advance return?" He replied to the air 'I did not apply'. If you don't apply for the money? So that small and medium-sized enterprises should apply. It's an easy tool. The money we're giving now is too much. We're giving 1.4 billion. So small and medium-sized enterprises will receive substantial sums. Let's go to that piece of cheques you mentioned. I want us to stand on this. You're right, but it's not as simple as you say. What do you think and you're right? You are talking about a re-expansion of seventy-five days that we give to the registration of "TIERIA" for hotel businesses, travel agencies and seasonal enterprises, that is, this part of the cycle that is affected by tourism. I'll say it a little practical for people to understand. A hotel company used to put checks on June 15th-20th. What for? They worked since the end of April, early in May, they were picking up a cash, paying their checks for what they had done in the previous period. This year that they hadn't opened on 15 June, but they open on 1 July or some people on 15 June, you understand that this means they haven't collected the money to pay their checks. That is why this extension is being given. And that brings the travel agencies together. This brings together all shops which have a reduction in turnover over last year, Mr President, over 50%. So in that sense they're seasonal companies. They are critically affected because of the damage to tourism. We are giving them an extension of seventy-five days to write in "TERIA". You are now saying that "saving them and doing well, but here we have a problem with the bearer who doesn't have the money". Do you know how much money the checks are a month? Over 6 billion. Cheques in Greece are a little gray way of covering the lack of bank borrowing. It is an indirect form of lending from business to business through cheque. The amount is huge. We wouldn't have money for such a tool. What you're saying is a guarantee tool, like what we made every month. We didn't have that money to do. It couldn't be done either. Why if you go unwittingly and say "whoever has cut a check, it is discounted by a state guarantee," do you know how many checks will be broken and stay in the state? Again there should be bank criteria for which check is paid and which is not. So we're actually going to a form of bank borrowing because it's a loan you're asking for. We have really considered this very much with Mr Tsakir. The bill doesn't come out, and it can't be. The rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u130	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. I think, Minister, that we need to start a genuine debate which will actually take place next time. The European Union's serious decisions and the Recovery Fund, as well as the facilities it gives us and the additional programmes, must be made best use of to have the lowest possible recession. I think they all have a reason. You have to do a little more trouble, listen to the suggestions and explore them. Because clearly when we make the account, it will not be who will win politically, but how many businesses will have shut down, how many people will have lost their jobs. That's where everyone has a share of responsibility. It's a difficult situation, but it's a good condition. I insist on that. Don't remind me of 2009. First of all, the political climate was such, with half struggling to find solutions and the other half not to let them. Now this cannot be done because we have had the prior governance of SYRIZA as well. So SYRIZA agrees with his way of finding solutions. Europe has responded. In 2009 he whistled indifferently. We have surpluses. But we have the surpluses. So we have good preconditions. At the same time, however, we also have a difficult problem, because it is not just up to us the tourism that has been hit. For example, the whole European economy and the world economy are not just dependent on us. So we have a difficult problem, so we must make the best use of the financial instruments available to us. You need to increase the amount of TEIX. It can't be done. The height of TEIX, as it is now, will not meet the needs. You must therefore be the first thing to do is to increase the amount of TEIX. Secondly, in the question of cheques, the banking instrument should be strengthened with a guarantee of a percentage by the State. Minister, I want you to see this again. The bank tool, after payment of cheques by the debtor and payment on time for the bearer, should be strengthened by a public guarantee. A guarantee, not just a guarantee. That'll make things easier. We cannot solve the problem with the extensions we make. Like you said, it's huge. It's really huge. I told Mr. Dogakakis, who asked him exactly the same question on Friday, because he is co-responsible, that the engineer who made a renovation at the hotel and the man has the check in his hands, but he will receive it after sixty days. According to the law that we will be voting on in the next few days - I think we will all vote for this provision - it does not have the discharge from the banks. That's where the man has an obligation to go and pay. If you were to extend the suspension to the public and the banks, it would be a form of support for them. Consider this with the banks at least. We cannot interfere with the private engineer and tell him "no you will not collect your money, you will receive it after sixty days" and the private bank will not be able to intervene. Private one, private and the other. Excuse me. We're going to the issue of the return deposit. Simple tool. But more money is needed. It can't be done. A total of 2 billion will not meet the needs. Now if you take it gradually, it's another matter. However, more money is needed in this measure. This measure has indeed been taken by Michael Katrins, who is in charge of development from us, who has assessed it from the very beginning that it will work to a certain extent. And I told him, "Hold on, brake. I see you as a great supporter of the measure of repayable advance." I put the brakes on Michael for his assessment that the measure will work. And it did work. But it has issues to do with height. It has issues of serious funding for an enterprise that is excluded from others. Why are we fleeing there? Because bank criteria don't come in. That's exactly why. We're asking for this as well. I'm just closing up with a detail that's got to do with the setup. Look at her. It says the check arrangement is not just those codes. I say to you that tourist buses, for example, do not fall under the suspension of payment of cheques according to the codes. It says, however, that the last regulation says that those undertakings that will have 50% of their turnover in July, August and September will then be subject to the measure. I want to tell you that most of the bills of business that work in the summer and provide services are cut out in October. As soon as the season's over, it's been cleared and while they got an advance in the other months, it's in October. So you should add at least in October and there will be justice in dealing with these people. It's the practice. In October, invoices for summer activities were cut. It's dozens of problems. Today, Mr President, the operators of the groundhandling companies, the airlines, have told me that they are not subject to the measures of the tourist workers. It's a category of people who are enough all over Greece, and yet they don't. We therefore need to see the measures again, to make a serious X-ray and to move on from the Labour, Development and Finance Ministries to review the measures in the direction of support for those who have achieved and, of course, to correct those who have not achieved and exploited in the best way the tools that the European Union has given us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, if you will allow me, before answering what Mr Kegeroglu said, I would like to ask a further question: why have the measures taken on hotel businesses not been extended to focus operations?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Focus operations, if linked to what we call seasonal tourism, fall under the category of lower turnover than 50%. If, in other words, you have a restaurant that has a general job because it has a job, that doesn't fall under because it has a job and it has to pay its obligations to make the market work. If you have a restaurant that only works from tourism and so automatically because you don't have tourism falls under 50%, it's set. That's the right answer. We have arranged a general wording in order to catch all the cases of those companies that have actually been affected by tourism, regardless of what we call them, so that we can go to an objective criterion. Mr Colleague, you're saying something to this objective. I'm not saying it's wrong. You are likely to be right, namely that the measure should have entered in October especially for tourist buses. I don't know how easy this is to do. I want to look into it, I don't want to be unfair to people. On the contrary. I imagine somehow it will seem that June and June have fewer passengers, because somewhere they record the passengers. There's no other way. If they don't have passengers registered as buses, they do tax evasion. So they've been written down somewhere, so somehow...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u134	The invoice's off. A month later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u135	The invoice may enter a month, but only by passenger traffic could accountants prove the reduction of the turnover.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u136	But the law says invoicing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u137	Okay. In the question you ask the House, let the tourist buses be the passenger and catch them and finish. I accept it as a real anxiety. I don't want to blame any of our fellow citizens. I want anyone we can help who has a real problem, help him. A general observation before I close with TPIX: Indeed, Mr Kegeroglu, this year's political climate is very different compared with 2010. I'm bringing an example that made me a great impression. Today I read an article by Mr. Kambourakis, who had a picture of a banner he had in Chania, Crete for a year and a half and did not let him go to Crete. Why do you think, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that they accused Kamburakis for a year and a half and did not let him go to Chania? "Outside Kaburakis from Chania, which supports the "MEGA", the interlocutory channel, the Memorandum Law Ragosi". Note: For a year and a half Kamourakis could not go to Chania because he supported the Ragosi Memorial Law, and they took the whole Ragosi from there, the memorialists, the supposedly indignant, because life brings it like this and change things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u138	They had 'fat' at the time. Now they don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u139	Because I want to be with you in good faith, see how the misunderstandings are made in the House, Mr Katrin: is written by your colleague Mr Kegeroglu in the timely question: 'Number 4. Accelerate the activation procedures for microfinance, microfinancing.’ It is the bill introduced in plenary on Wednesday. He had begun with Mr Yiannis Drasakis, we continue with it and vote. It has not been a month since I opposed Mr Katrin, who told me publicly that the microcredit bill is a confession of failure of government policy. You choose: Or it is a confession of failure of government policy, micro-credits or we must speed up its vote - in two days it is voted on - that you say. I say this because if we make the debate in good faith, we'll make it clear. If we do the conversation, we won't make any sense. That's it. I'm going to TPIX. To figure out a little what is going on, you rightly said that 1,2 billion has been given to date. A total of some 800 million will be provided. I would remind you that the original programming was for 1.3 billion, i.e. about what we have given so far. We increased this programming, increased the money, went to 2 billion and indeed - you are right, Mr Kegeroglu - applications were much more. I have to tell you, without being able to tell you anything at this time - because I do not have it as a solution - that we are concerned with the Ministry of Development what we are going to do. Note for what category: For those enterprises that were finally approved by TEPIX, that is to say they were considered worthy, but until the application from the Development Bank, the money was over. These are the most wronged. This is a category of business that they had to take, but they didn't have time to get it because their application went late by the bank. This is a special charge. We'll count how many people they are, we'll see what money we're talking about, we'll see what we can find, because I'm not telling you that I have billions of money in my pocket to make it out - it's not that easy - but I accept it's our responsibility to find an optimal solution for these people too. However, I will tell you by closing down - and this also partly responds to what you said about the checks previously, about the bearer - that the series of measures we have put forward has a logical, time sequence. We did not build a special tool for cheques, but we built the TPIX and the guarantees so that the companies that are worthy of getting money and not suspending checks can do so. We suspended a registration at TIERSIA, so that you had a reason to go and pay. So if you take money with the tools we've earned either the repayable advance or the guarantee card, you have one more reason to go pay your check, because what we want to give to the market is that if you can pay it, pay it, and not use any suspension. I'll tell you what, so you know. This message, which I made with great anxiety at the time of the major crisis in March with the beginning of April, has been appreciated by the market. You know from the checks we suspended and entered an electronic platform and took protection, how much was paid? 87%, while they were protected, paid his check. So they're not those who have checks or people who don't want to pay anything. They have to be given a chance to find the time to raise the money and pay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u140	"SURE" didn't you get it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u141	That's what we do with regulation. Guaranteed tools, repayable advance, TEPIX, suspension a little bit longer in time, pick up the money to pay your check. Anyway, if we see that the measure, as you say, has many problems - it did not last time, we will see now, it changes the data - here we are. To tell you just to know, not to say things among us, that, yes, Europe is in a much better climate than in 2010 and, yes, it wants to help, etc., but we have not taken money from Europe yet. We'll take it. When we get the money, we'll talk about how we spend it. For the time being, it is a question of getting them. We do not know how much we will get, since the leaders are still talking about deciding, nor do we know under what conditions. Let's finish the conversation and then let's talk about how to spend it. Let's get them first. It is better for the climate in Europe, I accept, it is much better for the climate, but do not rush to spend what we do not have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u142	The excuses started.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u143	They're not excuses. It's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u144	Thank you both. However, the question raised by Mr Kegeroglu is not a secondary one. On the question raised by Mr Kegeroglu on transfers, there is a solution. Just think. Let's not talk about this right now. It is a guarantee of security. If you see it that way, you'll see there's a solution. Let's not put in jail and the mechanic who's been borrowed. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 20/10/4-5-2020 by Members of the Radical Left coalition Group and others will be debated. Georgiou Tsipras, Nikolaos Papa, Athanasias (Syria) Anagnostopoulou, Ioannis Drasaki, Ioannis Sarakiotis, Panayois (Giotas) Pulou, Olympia Talioridou, Eleftherios Avramaki, Athanasios (Nas) Athanasios, Trysopho Alexiadis, Stavros Arahovitis, Theodoras (Doras) Auriris, Socrates Vardakis, Dimitris Vitsa, Ollas Gerovalis, Christos Giannoulis, Theodouros Driotis, Soulos Pandoulous, Constantinou Zachariadis, Astantinouin Zachiadis, Nicoumannis Evansiasiasiasias (Halonikano), Alaris (Alysssssiasiasiasiasiasiasiasias), Eflooulisos, Alaris (Halonidisulamidis), Efreoulisiasiasiasiasiasiasos), Alymoulisiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasos, Elooulisos, Eflooulisos (Halos), Kalooulisiasssos, Kalooulioulisos, Kalooulissssssssssssiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasos, Eloou (Halos), Alas, Elooulisiasos, Eloarisiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasos, Eloou (Calos), Alyos), Alymou (Calos), Kalosiasiasiasiasos), Eloou (Halos), Elosssos, Kalosos, Kalossos, Elosiasias Exploiting new possibilities.’ Well, to be well-considered, Mr. Tsipras has ten minutes of speech and five minutes of denology. Mr. Pappas, Mr. Sarakiotis, Mrs.Jakris and Mrs. Panayios have five minutes prototype, three minutes of dentology. Mr. Kalamatianos and Mrs. Tyloridou have three minutes of prototype and two minutes of denology. All these people can use their dentistry. If they don't tell me, I'll do it myself. Now, on behalf of the government, Mr Georgiadis, the Minister for Development and Investment has twenty minutes of protology, ten minutes of dentology, five minutes of tritology. Mr. Tsakiris, State Secretary for Development and Investment, has ten minutes prototype and five minutes dentext. As far as Parliamentary Representatives are concerned: From SYRIZA Mr.Janakopoulou has 12 minutes, six minutes and three minutes respectively protology, dentology and tritology. The other parliamentary representatives, namely Mr Bukoros, Mr Katrinis, Mr Karathanasopoulos, Mr Villiardos and Mr Gregoryiadis from Mera25 to the extent that they want - I imagine they will - be able to speak for six minutes. What should be known to everyone is that the debate - so that we do not get involved - is closed by the Minister. I mean, don't get him to do his teratology, and then someone remembers that he hasn't spoken and asked for the floor again. He won't be given that way. This debate is closed by the Minister, in other words with the five minutes of the trilogy. He has the floor for the first questionable Member of the West Attica of the Radical Left Coalition, George Tsipras for ten minutes. And he's the only one who can speak, except the Minister, from the Step. Everyone else will speak from their seats. Here, Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Introductory terms, I will make a comment because it has to do with the question. I was informed that Mr Georgiadis earlier said that the Greek banks finance at higher interest rates than Europeans because they borrow more precisely. If it is right and I have not been informed wrongly, it is understood that this is not the case. Lending rates from the ECB in the midst of a pandemic are negative. Negative interest rates and high interest rates of financing, there is no meaning. Something else is going on. I'm coming to the question. So in the recession it is known - the government does not admit it - that we had already entered the last quarter of 2019. We had two continuous quarters of recession, so remission. However, within the much greater recession that we are facing because of the 2020 pandemic, it also opens up a window of opportunity. And that is the most important issue concerning this question. It is an opportunity window for a number of firms in difficulty that either belong to the public or has a direct legitimate interest in the public interest - let us say, because of public debt - or in any case there are reasons for public interest in aiding these enterprises. As you know, the European Union has frozen Article 107 of the European Union on State aid. In this respect, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty. In particular, on 7 April the European Commission reviewed legislation for all European Union countries on support for firms in difficulty. The aim in the Community is to ensure that the State capital is available where there is a greater need. According to the Commission, therefore, the aim of these guidelines is to ensure that State aid granted to the countries of the European Union really serves the public interest. An example of this is the rescuing of an undertaking which would hamper the social difficulties caused by its closure in an area which already has a high unemployment rate. Let me remind you here that Mr Georgiadis and other government ministers at the 'Invest in Greece' in the explanatory statement, for example, stated - in order to promote anti-environmental provisions - that West Attica is an area with high unemployment rates. The high unemployment rates are therefore a reason for the abolition of provisions and a regulatory framework aimed at protecting the environment, but these same high unemployment rates are not rather an adequate reason for public interest in the State aid and rescue of enterprises. According to the Commission, companies with an imminent collapse are always allowed to remain on the market for sufficient time to prepare a restructuring plan. And at the end of six months the restructuring plan should be notified to the committee and the aid approved as restructuring aid. Today, then, this window of opportunity opens much more because of the pandemic. In your reply to our written question of 3 April - approximately - Minister, you did not answer the problem, state and non-State enterprises where their State aid is a condition of survival and rescue and the creation of a sustainable outlook is a public interest. You mentioned only the side of the issue of aid to firms affected by restrictive measures, but you said nothing about this opportunity window and the use of the current - temporary - favourable situation in the European Union to save problematic and non-large businesses whose survival is linked to the public interest. In fact, you have only mentioned 'AEGEAN' so far, to anyone else. By means of the already existing framework and the Guidelines on State aid to non-financial corporations in 2014 which have been revised, there is the possibility of restructuring companies with State loans at least. However, until now, the Government has announced no measures to cover firms in difficulty. Many European Union countries, such as Germany, France, Italy, etc., have immediately announced that they will protect public and private enterprises in strategic sectors, on the other hand, that, if necessary, they will dominate businesses at risk from the pandemic through direct aid from own funds. Countries with great productive potential and heavy industry are seeing that they are exploiting the relaxation of this framework and moving forward to similar measures. And it is not just countries such as Germany that are countries like Portugal with similar values - let us say it - economy with us, which are particularly galantic in strengthening - to maintain their production base. So we ask: Will the interest in 'Aegean' be extended to public enterprises, to enterprises that have a direct legitimate public interest or to enterprises which, for strategic reasons, need to be kept open and have a sustainable future? In mid-April, DG Comp approved certain State aid costs. Let me give you an example: Germany 850 billion, France 300 billion, Spain 100 billion, Italy 25 billion, Poland 22 billion, Portugal 16 billion, Austria 15 billion and so on. And Greece 2 billion! That's in April. They have now increased to more than four billion. The ratio remains about the same. These are elements from the ‘BLOOMBERG’ and I submit it. [[At this point, the Member, George Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On 9 June 2020 Portugal notified the Commission of an operation under which it would grant State aid of 1,2 billion to the State airline ‘TAP’. He's still waiting for an answer, but the particular element of interest here is that this company had no problems in the pandemic. It was a problematic business before 31-12-2019. On 8 May 2020, in Croatia, the Commission approved 40 million for rescuing, again on problems that were, yes, intensified into the pandemic, but these problems existed before 31 December. This company is called ‘DURO DAKOVIC’, which is a technical company. I come to Greece like this. I will be staying in three examples. Other colleagues will put the rest of it in place. The Government, instead of strengthening the development prospects of ODA, by a decision of the Minister of Finance, Mr Stakoura, cut unpaid benefits for workers in the only airline in the country, equivalent to about two and a half wages a year. I can tell you in detail what was cut off. What's the result? As a result, there is a risk that all construction and maintenance work such as SL 215, which we need for the summer season, the F-16 upgrades to Viper, aircraft P -3B, aircraft C -130 etc., will remain behind. Furthermore, ‘LOCKHEED MARTIN’, which has contracts with some of these events, is information that it is considering withdrawing from the contract, because time of delivery is very important and the company is losing some 150 million. I started by ODA for one reason: from all problematic and non-business companies it is the public company that has the greatest potential for development because of know-how and particularly increased demand in recent years in the wider region and the Balkans and the Middle East. Instead of supporting it - and there is a need for support and investment programmes from the public sector - you are moving towards an action that blatantly undermines the future of the company. As it turns out, this is not understood, they do not know, or it is difficult for Mr Stavros and Mr Georgiadis to understand. But there's something worse here, which shows total ignorance. When the EAW was negotiated with ‘LOCKHEED MARTIN’, it was agreed that the cost of the company’s work would be borne by EAW to undertake the upgrading of F-16 to Viper. With the new data, if the Minister of Finance's decision is not taken back, there is a possibility that LOCKHEED MARTIN will be asked to cut the labour force, thereby reducing the consideration. Second example: Elefsina Shipyard. The Minister is well aware that, as the question of the sustainability and development of the Shipyards in Neo Syros has been resolved, we proceeded with a corresponding resolution on Elefsina Shipyards, with the signature of a memorandum of understanding between an investor, banks, the Ministry of National Defence and more general public. The banks didn't sign up. But we had their consent. Since then, you have been stumbling all tons that the problem will be resolved. Your Prime Minister had committed himself to PPC in September, this is where Mr Papathanases said, "Don't talk about Elefsina Shipyards, anytime we'll resolve it." And we arrive at a point where Mr Georgiadis repeatedly, not once threatens that, unless a solution is found within the next three months, until March - I do not remember - the operation will close or go to liquidation. Who exactly is the Minister threatening? The investor, the today's owner, the workers? So the question to Mr Georgiadis is this: will the investment launched by the previous government proceed? If for any reason it does not go ahead, are you committed to the viability of the yard through any form of State aid, after a debt-to-public and bank debt-to-bank debt-to-equity? Is the Minister, in contrast to what he threatened, committed that the yards will close, firstly, that they will not be shut down, that the workers who touch 20 million will not be lost, and that the shipyards will not go to liquidation? A final element concerning the large ocean of small and medium-sized enterprises. As far as legal persons are concerned, sixty-three thousand companies, about 64% of the total are either injurious or a zero statement. These operations, firstly, are not a zombie. They declare a turnover of 91 billion, which accounts for about 35% of the total GDP of the economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In our national development strategy, inherited by our own government, the Enterprise Restructuring Fund, especially for such enterprises, was provided for with resources provided for in 400 million, etc. This precedent is without a chance at all on the horizon. The question is if you activate such tools for these businesses, which do not have access to the systemic banking system. On 12 June - it is very recent - the European Commission sent Member States a proposal for consultation to further extend the provisional framework approved on 19 March. The aim is for Member States to be able to support small and micro-enterprises, based on the difficulties they face in the middle of a pandemic. The question is whether you have commented, whether you have consulted on the proposal of 12 June and whether you are somehow planning to use it. Informatively and I'm ending, Westager, the well-known DG Comp issues, said that small and micro-enterprises are facing huge challenges today as a result of the coronary...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Tsipras, you need to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u148	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is crucial that they survive for the recovery of the entire European Union and, in short, for me not to be plentiful, have taken these measures and on 12 June, which were sent to the proposal, precisely so that they can save small and medium-sized enterprises, because they are regarded as critical. Are we gonna do something like this or do we think of them as a zombie? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, too. Mr. Poppas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President. The others with bazookas, we with water guns, Minister! It is absolutely obvious what the choice is and it cannot be explained. Because if there is someone who is following international analyses, international news and economic analysis around the world, for the last four months Greece has been classified in the countries of the highest risk, based on the consequences of coronary closure. What would anyone expect? To read these out a political leadership, to realize the scale of the problem and to act accordingly. We sat down and looked at what other countries do. Really, it's a heartbreaking sight. You tell me. You celebrated on Twitter with Mr. Stakora that the 2 billion-dollar guarantees were approved for Greek businesses. Yes, sir. You are already telling us that the programme has gone very well. An economy of similar size in Greece, Portugal has gone to 15-16 billion. What do those we don't know? Will you explain? You will bring a convincing argument because it is so small a scale for intervention and misdesigned, of course. And for the repayable advance, you're satisfied. It's insane and the returnable deposit. I will give you one example: a law firm with two employees - a cleaning worker, a worker with administrative tasks - 150,000 repayable advance. Company manufacturing, with a hundred employees, 4,000 repayable advance. Don't look at me with a question. Ask exactly who's got what. We are also calling for them and we must ask them, and we hope that you will also have a different attitude from the banks. Because there's been a terrible mess. People have been notified to go for approval of the loan and once they have passed the threshold, they have been told "you know, it is not approved, because we have been ordered from above that what is under 200,000 to cut it". We only hear them? Don't you hear them? You don't know them? You're not talking to the business world. You're talking to the business world. What are you telling them? Do you wash your hands? Have the banks undertaken the development strategy? Will the banks decide who lives and who dies? Will the banks decide which sector will be supported and which sector will not be supported? So who makes the choices in this country? Unless they are your choices, you are satisfied with them and we also put in our mouths the 'poories' banks, which - I am passing away - have taken liquidity until May, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, EUR 28 billion. I repeat, EUR 28 billion. And what do they confess in their conversations? That of these have been put on the market EUR 4 billion, of which 3.5 billion have been made available to customers designated as ‘AA’. What about this story? Same again? Same circle? We also come to the micro-credit bill and the responsibilities for micro-credits go, the regulation of the Bank of Greece, while there is the Draghi position, which says there is a risk of conflict of interest. We were here with the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Zavvos, and our Member read to him a word for word the letter Draghi. Why are you doing this? What's the point? Do you think it's effective how the banks have moved so far? We don't think so. And there's something else I want to say about microcredits. Be careful, Minister, and do not invoke the bill you received, because the bill you received did not complete its consultation and, of course, it was not under coronary conditions. As you already know, there will be huge demand for liquidity in coronary conditions. If you leave a market there unaltered, you will simply push the world that is desperate for very small amounts of liquidity, very small amounts, in a market with interest rates extended. Some suggestions have been made by Mr. Stakora during the debate, that you will bring in a regulation, in order to have a ceiling at the interest rate, that other countries will do so. France has done so, and Italy has done so, if I am not wrong, and Austria has done so. So, here, we really expect an intervention to be effective. Finally, we would like to ask you what is happening and with a view to recourseing the ESM. Does it open such a talk? Because Mr Stakoras said somewhere "in these circumstances we do not want to go". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The SSM shall have a statute. And the Statute of the ESM means a programme. The Commission's decisions on this matter are polite but explicitly for supervision of banking stability, budgetary equilibrium and reforms. And the reforms, which are notoriously formulated there, but will also be introduced in the Greek legal framework, are primarily some privatisations, I imagine, and the lifting of first residence protection. Look, we don't discuss, as we were discussing, three months ago. The situation has many new elements. Think outside the usual neoliberal boxes. At the moment we are talking, in Germany, state intervention is a beast. The "FINANCIAL TIMES" last week said that Germany is heading towards a model of state capitalism. It is not illegal for any talk and state participation and public intervention. I would even say to you, why not openly discuss how public property can become a development lever instead of being the raw material for assignment and divestment, which will simply bring about a temporary and cash facility?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Pappa, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u152	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. So, on the occasion of this debate, you also need to make commitments, which will mark a serious change of course, both in terms of the size of the intervention and its quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u153	Thank you. Mr. Sarakiotis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President, The first speaker, George Tsipras, referred in detail to the ways in which the Greek Government, as other countries do in the European Union, can save large-scale Greek businesses, such as Italy, Germany, France and other countries. I will not go into the tools, but I shall refer to one of these companies, with which the government is required to deal effectively and to see all the crisis that has arisen as an opportunity to save the company. I will deal specifically with LARCO, the largest ferro-nickel producer in the European Union and one of the five largest companies in the world. LARCO, which is known to all its customers worldwide for its know-how and the quality of the material it exports, and its consistency. Let us now see how you treated this colossus from the day of New Democracy's governance. You took out a 2014 plan from the drawers, a plan that had not been accepted at the time, nor by the administration, which you had appointed by your decision. The Minister for Energy, Mr Hatzidakis, then took over its phasing-out by means of statements. We all remember that she said from morning until night that LARCO pollutes, that LARCO is one of the worst businesses in the country, that her employees are high-paid. Only he didn't like the Golden Boys, say, PPC. Workers, the majority of whom work in furnaces for 1,000 euros a month. Next and then before the February 2020 amendment came, you managed to cause the administration you set a huge loss to the company, as it sold at a lower price than the stock exchange, as LARCO was blackmailed by its customers because they had leaked your plans to divest the company, to reap it, so that we have a renewal of the nickel export contracts with a huge discount. It is worth noting here that despite the fact that four years this company was kept alive, while the price of nickel had reached a historic low 7,500 to 8,000 in 2015 and 2016 respectively, and the cost of production was 14,000 to 15,000, you had the luck, which you unfortunately did not take advantage of, in September to present the highest price throughout the five-year period, nickel with its price being 18,000 dollars. Unfortunately, you have done nothing to take advantage of it and we are reaching the shameful amendment of February 2020, which only the Members of the New Democracy voted on. Of course, some of them today, when they visit the company's employees, say we didn't know what we voted for, we thought it was in the company's interest. Members of the New Democracy, not SYRIZA. What is the situation in the country's largest mining industry today? Reductions in wages, which reach 40%, contractors who have worked for years with the company, transporters and suppliers as well as unpaid. It is worth noting here that all those who had a permanent cooperation with the company, the designated administration by the New Democracy and before the vote on the amendment said to them and assured them that they would not lose one euro: 'Stand back and no money will be lost'. I am now referring to contractors who either have one excavator or carry one or two trucks. Debts were created from EUR 5,000 to EUR 100,000 and EUR 150,000, and after the amendment was voted, the administrator informed them that they should be forgotten the amounts due and 'if you wish, come on to continue cooperation from EUR 0;' without any obligation of the company to pay these sums. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will also use the time of my dentistry, Mr President. Today, beyond that, the company does not produce. I shall mention the monthly production of the previous years. In 2013, it produced a thousand four hundred tons. In 2015 and 2016, it produced a thousand four hundred twenty-five tons. In 2017, it produced a thousand four hundred tonnes. Today the company does not produce three hundred tons. I wonder, what plan is it that you have prepared and put into operation today, to save a company as a factor of 20% that produced all the previous years? In what magical way, I really wonder, will you save this company? It was you who were electorally saying that you would bring investments and so on. Unfortunately, I do not see it done successfully until now, to have a happy ending. However, what investments are we going to discuss, when one of the largest companies comes, one of the few heavy industries in the country, at the moment on the edge of the cliff? Over a thousand two hundred employees and over ten thousand VDU involved with the company are confronted with the disaster. You promised better jobs, more jobs. So talk to the people at the factory in Larymna, in Serbs in Kozani, in Red, Boeotia, and tell them what you were saying in the election about the best and best-paid jobs. Minister, LARCO produces a 100% Greek product, with Greek know-how, from the Greek soil, with Greek workers and engineers and Greek raw materials. So before we start looking for investors, who will stimulate the Greek economy, let's see what happens to large, powerful businesses, which have already been active in our country for many decades, such as LARCO. You have more responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, for this company, as you were the ones who led it to the cliff, as in 2006 you more than doubled the electricity price and you realize what this means to a company of which most of the cost of production is PPC. How can it not create debts to PPC? Sign the contracts, the famous hedging. You locked the price at a low level. The price was more than doubled and the company lost around EUR 500 million, which, if it had today, would have no financial problem. And you led - we remember - to the condemnation by the European Commission in 2014 for returning alleged state aid. The question is simple and one: Do you want LARCO? Do you want there to be heavy industries in our country? It is clear and they are waiting for your answer workers and businessmen who are connected to the company in five counties of our country. There's new data. Mr. Tsipras analyzed them. You must use them. You owe the same affection and love you show for banks and companies like "AEGEAN", which you well do and you support, to show it for the largest nickel production company in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr Saraciotis. Mrs. Jackie has the floor for five minutes. Mrs. Jackie, would you use your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u156	Yes, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not bore you with reference to the institutional framework created by the European Commission under the unfavourable conditions of the coronary pandemic, which has scourged and plagued the European economy. I only hope that it will not concern us - at least not in this tension - next year. Germany has already gone a long way and within a few months from a country champion of austerity has turned into Europe's largest open-air program, with a breathtaking programme of EUR 130 billion, that is, 10% of its GDP for now, which can only gradually reach 30% this year for the rescue of businesses and the maintenance of jobs. Even the President of France, Emmanuel McCrone, abandoned his private-sector championship plan, which he was defending until now, with a more careful approach that embraces the stability of the public sector and the undertakings that support state aid. Unfortunately, Minister, in Greece - and the 'happily' is going to the bad times that we are experiencing - has coincided with the pandemic of the coronary with your own governance. And that's because in your government besides political prejudice and dogma you have no other plan. Besides, you've never had a whole plan on your right and that's why you've thrown the country so many times on the rocks. And you have not ruled once, regardless of good or bad times, without leaving the country destroyed. In your mind, of course, the transition from the thunderstorms and the tragedies of Aeschulus, which you sold us from the TVs to the bulldozers of the Greek, is a huge advance, Minister. I would like to tell you, however, that in Greece today and generally in the developed countries, progress is not being made either by digging or by beetroots, and most of all it is not being carried out by shreds and demolitions. Now, indeed, that will start from you the great titanium project in Greek with public spending, of course - always - which will last, according to your announcements, three and a half years, I think we can typically give you the name "Adonis Georgiadis - the great demolition of development". And if you don't like this and you want to go to a sign with more children's texture, we can also tell you "Adonis Georgiadis - Robin of the ruins". It is obvious that in your mind you have no one, but no development plan at all. Your plan, in fact, to support the private sector is not even a plan. I'd say it's more a chart recorded on a piece of paper, in which you capture who has the greatest tips in your government to get the money. You have done nothing to produce, not to process, not to industry and, of course, to modern technologies. And just because of your prejudices you don't have in mind and some plan to strengthen critical industries like the defence industry. This sector, in addition to leveraging important forces of modern technologies, either internally or externally, also maintains a number of sub-contracting operations, as it collaborates with a large number of private sector enterprises, as is always the case in these cases. Already European developed industries are based fundamentally on state aid, either through defence-related orders or through the conversion of purely political programmes into programmes of a dual nature, that is, political and defence, in order to be financed directly through State aid. And so it is developing on competitive terms that industry and manufacturing and European countries are gaining the hard rig of cutting-edge technologies, and most of all now that this possibility is being provided richly because of the relaxation of the rules on State aid from the European Union. Another project that could give the country perspective, and it is obviously not a plan that competes, which competes with the major powers of the West, would be to record and connect private sector enterprises that are productively related to defence, for example, the metal industry, the aluminium industry, in short, heavy manufacturing industries, to leverage research funds and turn to small innovation enterprises. This will, on the one hand, give a lot of stable and well-paid jobs to work, and, at company and productivity level, will create productive enterprises that can export to developing countries and, of course, change both the defence strategy and the country's own dynamics. Here, then, we can have an example of a virtuous partnership between the public and private sectors, where the public sector is making the most of the possibilities of the private sector, fighting funds for defence, research and State aid, thereby giving an excellent perspective, obviously, in the areas of defence and the introduction to the economy of new technologies. The plan, of course, to strengthen the defence industry, as I mentioned, is outside your own ability to understand it and your worthy system to deal with it, because you are concerned only with issues that are easily and quickly given to you press releases and other things - you know. So the first thing you have done right after the entry into force of the new state aid scheme was to give support to a company, AEGEAN, in substance, that is, a private monopoly created by your own government, with the most expensive tickets to Europe in internal flights, so that its big shareholders - all of which are related to your own party - and each year, they share high profits from dividends, get intact, put their hands out of their own pockets, except, of course, the money given - to say that and it is in the right direction - to keep jobs. Mr Georgiadis, while the whole of Europe is planning its future in the post-court era, you are basically making the bases for Greece to remain forever the country of sun and tourism, and it could well be more than that. Along with this, a tourist country, and a developed technologically and manufacturing country. On the contrary, you are laying the foundations for Greece's next economic crisis, which, unfortunately, will not be a crisis but will be the final blow. Of course, outwards will all be perfect. You are already using authoritarian methods that use countries that do not completely undermine democracy. On the one hand, there is the crisis, unemployment and poverty, and on the other hand, you have transformed the media - with the undoubted, of course - into a lid on a magical unexistent image. The next stage, of course, will be violence and authoritarianism not to relate to - if you like - 'voluntary' and to the undoubted always projection of a magic image, but to the direct link between business and government interests in a single account of political and economic authoritarianism. It is obvious that you, as an extreme neoliberal government, are morally preparing the ground through publications to get rid of any involvement of the public space in the name of an unspeakable and so far extreme and one-sided support for private capital, which has enjoyed great profits and state subsidies for a long time and now comes to socialise its losses. We as SYRIZA, and with the credibility that gives us the big fund that we delivered to you, because we abolished the misassis at all levels of public life, we have a clear patriotic position on the issue of the need to strengthen the Greek state industry. For us too, it is clear that the defence industry that is fully operational and with public guaranteed and restructured its loan portfolio may be an equal partner of the major international defence industries with which we must, in fact, cooperate and introduce know-how in order to plan together the best defensive systems and to ensure not only their productive self-sufficiency but also tens of thousands of direct and indirect jobs. But I think you have an obligation - and you will have to prove this to us and you will have a full responsibility to do so - to go ahead with the immediate and targeted support, consolidation and restructuring of the Greek defence industry, so that it becomes a lever for the development of the private sector and not a bankrupt loot in the hands of foreign players and we urge you to show us that you have understood that. I think it has become clear on the part of both colleagues and SYRIZA that we will not contribute to the sale of our defence industry as if it were a joint food company or a transport operation. The money is of the Greek people and they must shield the future of the Greek people, bring security and profits and not dependencies and hunger wages.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Jackie. Mrs Poulou has the floor for five minutes, unless she makes use of her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u158	I guess I'm gonna have to keep my mouth shut. Minister, is there any or not the Commission's direction to relax stability measures? Is there or is there any possibility of supporting the strategic nationally important enterprises of the Member States? What is the government's strategy for their development? Is it possible for them to be rescued on the basis of a master plan, without being considered as State aid and therefore not charging fines to the Greek State? Reply, because thousands of workers and the Greek people are waiting for an answer. But we read happening in European countries and others see happening in our country. Your Government has not established an integrated plan for the rescue and productive restructuring of large enterprises with strategic importance for the Greek economy. Or is it? Present it. It is clear that despite your great words, in fact your policy to date is a policy to divest companies that manage national wealth and public goods in private capital. The examples are many: IPTO, DEPA, the recent manifestation of your intentions for EMAP, etc. Your request to the European Competition Committee of 3 billion in total, when other countries with corresponding economies, such as Portugal, have the approval for 13 billion, proves that your plan is the privileged support of the private sector. Minister, does the request of the 3 billion people include the Greek Air Industry, EAB or LARCO? From what we read, no. We have often spoken from this Step about the strategic importance of these two businesses. Will you make a supplementary request to save and develop them by making use of the new European tools instead of deceiving them? In particular, with regard to ODA, which is in Boeotia Law in my constituency, this depreciation is done by cutting the wages by 10% and other gains from labour, denying the allowance for heavy and unhealthy insurance contracts by LOCKHEED MARTIN, etc. Are you considering the impact on the Greek State of the possible cancellation of the contracts with ‘LOCKHEED MARTIN’ and the loss of 50 million dollars of foreign exchange and the loss of valuable know-how? Do you also consider the risk of suspending construction aircraft upgrade programs and maintaining fire-fighting aircraft during an anti-nuclear period? I do not want to extend to the consequences regarding the preparedness of the Air Force at a time that is crucial to our country. Workers, Mr Minister, await their vindication by signing their collective contract of employment. They are also waiting mainly for your plan for the development of the Greek Air Industry. Also, the corresponding national importance and wealth is ‘LARCO’. It's a unique company. It was said by colleagues before. Mr. Sarakiotis has been mentioned in detail. But I would also like to convey the anxiety of the citizens of my region. You know, the six counties are financially affected by the activity of 'LARCO'. Today, then, local communities are rebellious. A thousand two hundred workers are on the way. Suppliers are in despair because they are unpaid for the hired. Would you like to protect the mineral national wealth and the heavy industry? Do you want to protect jobs? You don't want to, Minister. You haven't been able to put the bulldozers in the Greek for a year now. But you haven't even been able to bring in investments. All you seem to be planning is to sell out national wealth. I would like to mention, although Mr Sarakiotis for LARCO, that, Minister, during the pandemic, workers' protection measures have been minimal to the existence of measures, and that is not only at pandemic. And for the safety of workers, there are no measures. You'll really be responsible if any accidents at work occur. And one last thing to close, 'cause it's recent. You know, Minister, that small and medium-sized enterprises and shops, in particular, focusing on Greece, are narrow, because they have accumulated obligations at this time. And that's not good enough. In a demonstration, in fact, law and order and reinstate their regularity you impose huge fines. I am also referring to an event that was created today in Lebanon, where fines were imposed on fifty micro-enterprises. I wonder, Minister, that's right, that we respect our measures. But what about the tests? What about the airports that open? What about the tourists that are not considered? I think your planning for the reinstatement of the normal condition, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Kalamatianos has the floor for three minutes, unless he takes time from his denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u160	I guess I'll need him. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's question is an opportunity to break some myths and novels. First of all, it is an opportunity to break down the message that - allegedly - the Conservative Party, the New Democracy, cares for entrepreneurship and - supposedly - the Left is not interested in business. To avoid misunderstanding, of course, I am referring to the medium and small entrepreneurship, which is the vast majority of enterprises in our country, 90% according to figures. I am also referring to so-called private, public and wider public enterprises, which are a lever for growth and prosperity for our country. So far, in the midst of a pandemic, the government has not been interested in supporting these operations. On the contrary, it worked with his logic "we will see later", "we keep it reserve for later", which leads to the immunity of the herd to the economy. You apply the logic that big fish eats the little fish. This concept dominates - supposedly - the self-regulation of the market, the invisible hand of the market, the saying 'capitalism we have, what to do;' the zombies that need to be eliminated, according to your words. This concept has an active viewpoint. With the actions of the relevant ministries, you have made sure that you create the right conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises to be left to their fate during the health crisis. But you still do so now, and as a result, thousands of merchants and crafters have left themselves in their luck, even though they saw their turnovers nullified but also the long-awaited liquidity resembling a distant dream. There is another perspective, however, which is different from that of strategic enterprises, those which, due to the mismanagement and crackdown of governments by 2015, have a need for support, as they are strategic and comparative advantages for our country. There you continue to commit a crime by omission, as we say in law. As we emphasise with the question and you are well aware, since 19 March 2020 the European Commission adopted the temporary support framework, and this has changed the framework for State aid in accordance with Article 107 of the Treaty on European Union. The framework today provides great opportunities, as Mr Tsipras mentioned earlier. The direct State guarantee and tax relief, direct State aid to equity instruments with debt-to-equity conversion, direct State loans on large-scale and non-financial terms and others. All these useful tools are attempting to facilitate the rescue of public-interest enterprises in the public or private sectors by means of state-guaranteed loans, which can reach the state-owned part of these enterprises. Finally, European technology begins to understand the criticality of state intervention in the economy. It understands the functioning of this intervention not in terms of parasiticism but in terms of survival of the economies themselves which are suffering the consequences of the crisis. It is no coincidence that almost all governments in Europe are moving quickly and drastically, with the direct support of businesses. They recognise that their collapse will draw not only national economies, but also Europeans towards destruction. Contrary to what is happening in Europe, in Greece, the Government had announced no measures to cover firms in difficulty. Even the famous 'SURE' programme, which started to operate since 15 June in our country, has been turned into a flexibly flexibly flexibly flexible forms of employment. More deregulation deregulation of the labour market and hence the economy, and less strengthens workers and businesses. Even governments from the same ideological womb as you have taken much more advanced labour support measures, realising that without real support for work with decent working conditions, businesses will be led to recession and extinction. The examples have been mentioned. I don't need to expand. At the same time, exceptional income relief mechanisms were introduced in other countries for vulnerable population groups, insecure workers, unemployed and others. They banned redundancies and changes in contracts in their efforts to control the generalization of flexible forms of employment. At the same time, it is indicative that many countries have spent multiples of GDP to support workers and small and medium-sized enterprises compared to Greece. But let us accept that decent working and working conditions are not your priority. What about business? The Government has only requested EUR 4.5 billion in the European Competition Committee, when other governments have requested and approved hundreds of billions of them. You have not made any aware of the fact that you have submitted a dossier to the European Committee on Competition to support businesses and exploit new tools. You have not made announcements about direct support for patients in need of restructuring and export insurance to the exporting enterprises. So there is inaction and indifference that seems to possess your actions and which is not at all accidental. You know very well that the strategic enterprises, such as PPC, LARCO, EAV, NSA, Scaramaga and Elefsina, are enterprises that can be saved with these financial instruments. The question, of course, is specific. Do you want to save them and put them under non-functional but mild supervisory control of the state? We don't see it. It's probably not on your priorities. You want skeletons and depreciation for these important production units, because you want to deceive them and give them to private interests. The truth is, if you could, you'd privatize everything. You have also placed yourself in public on this. The reality, however, cannot be virtual. Workers in these enterprises and the citizens of the country are watching and drawing their conclusions. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] We're two different worlds. You insist on failed neoliberal practices of privatization and sale of public property. We are in favour of fair growth for Greece, in favour of progress and prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u161	We too, Mr. Kalamatiano. Mrs. Olympia Tyloridou from Kastoria has the floor for three minutes, unless she wants her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after the health crisis there is great concern about the course of the Greek economy and there is a climate of insecurity and uncertainty. Indeed, this climate begins and is reflected in the noble polls for you, and gradually seems to overthrow the excellence you have supposedly had. The climate, therefore, seems to create a great recession, although its size cannot be analysed or predicted, or at best for it, because, from week to week, we hear from the most official lips about a recession of 0%, 1%, 10%. The government is proud that in the first quarter there was a recession of 0.9%. We are now learning that the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance are for a deep recession of 16% for the second quarter. While there is all this, the government should have given particular attention to supporting critical sectors of the economy, but it is still unrepentant to be the preacher of self-regulation. This is evidenced by the fact that the potential of the European Commission now with the temporary support framework for strengthening national strategic enterprises remains untapped. While these enlarged possibilities are fully exploited in other European countries, the Greek Government leaves these businesses in our country with mercy from God and the sanctity of the laws of the market. A characteristic example, I will come back and strengthen what other colleagues have said before, as there is also a special interest in my constituency of Kastoria, is 'Larco'. All New Democracy has done to deal with the serious problems of the company is to put a special manager and the result of his work to transfer the government's responsibilities to the workers' backs. So LARCO, which for decades has provided the Greek economy and the local communities where it operates, has no institutional but financial support at present. The current government is trying to redeem it. It gives a deadline for bankruptcy. It reduces the wages of the workers. It abolishes holiday and leave allowances. It also shows an inertia and indifference in the payment of debts to workers, suppliers, transporters and contractors. And all this is done in the context of an old known tactic to depreciate these businesses with a view to privatising or selling them. A one-year extension is therefore granted, EUR 35 million is announced by the government that an investor is looking for, who will take the net weight section and choose the employees as well. In fact, we learn from reports that, as far as the privatisation of the company is concerned, there are discussions to be given to a company in northern Macedonia. Give the mine of Kastoria to Northern Macedonia! This is what the Government of New Democracy is talking about. That's her patriotism! Creams for SYRIZA MPs outside their offices for the Prespecies Agreement but now that we give the mineral wealth, business as usual. In fact, there are other scenarios. There are other publications of interest to the company from the fund and from Mr Minonis. On what terms? Generally speaking, it seems from the way the government is going to deal with this economic crisis, there is no interest in the public interest nor would it add to the national one. Besides, if you were interested in this, you would not do the same thing as you do with LARCO and other strategic companies, such as PPC, which, instead of supporting it, prescribe the worst future without a plan, without a project aiming, as the Prime Minister said in an interview with the "BUILD". Because we are making rapid degreasing, favouring German companies for photovoltaics. So at a time when all European countries are trying to secure energy security, energy adequacy and not to lead their citizens to energy poverty, for example, the Germany that refuses to give a binding defoliation chronology, we are doing everything in a hurry, because we need to move on with the privatisation plan. So your policy, and PPC in this crisis, remains at the level of announcements and not substance, without a viable plan, with the absence of regional development and without any planning. You've got a lot of tools in your hands. You must make use of the possibilities that exist today and that must be done before it is too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, too. The Minister for Development and Investment Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis has the floor for twenty minutes. I want you to be cool on your left.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u164	Why shouldn't they be cool, Mr. President? Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I will try, after saying the general principles of our policy, to respond to one of the issues that have been raised on this issue and not in general, and not as a matter of urgency, so that we can have a preliminary debate as far as possible. You'll allow me to quote some things. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] First of all, Ms. Telloridou, I did not expect that today there would be a SYRIZA Member who would say in Parliament the name Myoneis. I wasn't expecting. But that is why, Mr Pappas, because I believe - I always believe - that the questions in this House always have a topicality, since Parliament cannot be dismantled from reality, I will make a comment at the end of my speech, to give you the opportunity if you want to take the floor on staff and to have your opinion also tabled in Parliament, as you can understand, reasonable questions. So be ready, because with this I'll be closed, after Mrs. Tylorid has given me all of it, with rather an ignorance of danger. I'm going a little now on these quotes. In order to have a good debate, Mr Tsipras, you must stop coming and twisting what we say and while you are outside, take your ears and say other things. With my colleague, we were talking about bank lending interest rates in previous years and about whether their profit was greater over the previous years when we measured the charges. That's where you asked. To sell smartly you entered and said: "I heard with surprise what Georgiadis said, while now within COVID -19 interest rates have been zeroed, they are the same". Yes, the interest rates of the Greek banks, the interest rates of their borrowings, have declined very much and are almost similar to the European banks thanks to our government and not to yours. So we were talking about your own failure and you came to what we did. Warm congratulations. Subscribe to the New Democracy and learn how to do it. So I'm closing this. The debate is taking place on the facts and if you want to intervene in the debates, listen to what we say. Now we're going to the general principles before I go to the specifics. All the debate on the topical question in the way that has evolved from your fellow SYRIZA Members, will allow me to tell you that it was nothing more than an attempt to make your ideological inspiring and the failure of your ideology over the age of COVID -19. Mr. Janakopoulos laughs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u165	Why would I cry?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u166	He does well and laugh, because he doesn't know that today the Panagiotis Lafazanis was tried. Today was tried by your partner, Mr. Janakopoulos, - laugh a little bit more - Panagiotis Lafazanis and your former Minister from an indictment that loaded him with what government do you think? The SYRIZA government. Laugh now, Mr. Janakopoulos, a little more since Panagiotis Lafazanis went to the courtyard from you and you come and laugh at the House. Is that right? So what happened? The good, kind in mind - I don't know him very much - Mr. Kalamatianos and he told us the incredible: unsuccessful neoliberal recipes, the sale of public property, etc. I really thought that, after the four and a half years of your government and the vote by SYRIZA of the Overseas Privileges, you would have stopped saying these commons, because when you represent a party that has voted for a century in return for all public property in an ultra-government that manages foreigners to do what they want and cannot do what the Minister responsible for Development - I - exercise the slightest supervision over everything you've carried there, it's too, sir, come here and say that. So, to have a reasonable conversation if you want and deserve respect from your interlocutors, you will make serious arguments: Selling public property in Greece only made one, SYRIZA, for a hundred years in the superstate. Laugh as much as you like. It's okay. Besides, that's how you laughed at the polls before the elections, you told us how much they were falling out. You lost six, seven, eight, nine times from Mitsotakis, I don't know how many. You'll lose so many more and you'll keep laughing. Here we heard from Mrs. Tyloridou that the polls now show - it says - that the Greek people are awakening. I am generally not talking about polling because I think they have no meaning in the present political context. We have to solve people's problems. When the four years are closed, the Greek people will come and give each one the bill he deserves. But when you lose on average in polling with 20 units, coming to Parliament and talking about polling, do you not understand that it's a little ridiculous? Leave the polls. You're losing 20 units. We've got double scores for you all. It's okay. Let's go down and talk about ideological. We now go to the ideology, to go back to the specifics and to close the subject of Mr Papapas and Mr Mionis, and what is happening today is the news of the SYRIZA para-state. What does this question say here? It says whether our Government intends to make use of the European Commission's decisions that were taken in the midst of COVID, which the European Commission has, in fact, made decisions for this time on the normal course of State aid, to allow European governments, under certain conditions and conditions, to be able to support strategic enterprises that are interested in saving in their countries, for example - I say the most common example - LUFTHANSA by the German Government. And this tool that Europe has decided to introduce for this type of company I have been listening to you for so many minutes and you tell me if we will use it for LARCO if we are to use it for the shipyards. Excuse me. Has anyone given you the impression that Europe has told governments to go and give money to problematic and injurious businesses? Is that the work of Europe?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u167	The last decision says that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u168	No, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u169	You're inconceivable.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u170	And if Europe says so, the Greek Government will not throw away Greek taxpayers' money, Mr Pappa. Okay? It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u171	That's what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u172	So you want to take the taxpayers' money and throw it away. Why? To do your part.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u173	Is it to fly?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u174	Let's go see one of the companies you mentioned. I'm going to the first, most important, LAPD. Big pain has caught you for the D.A. As long as you've been talking, I've sat here and seen what happened in the four-year SYRIZA in EAB. Let's go see what happened. Jiro: you received him at 80 million a year, delivered him to 50 million a year. You were very interested in S.H.I.E.L.D.! Workers, half of them in the OAA. Debt, 30% on the EAW. After you had such great interest in ODA and ruled for four and a half years, why did you hand it over to us in black and certainly much worse than you received it? Scaramaga Shipyard. Well, here's the asbestos. This company, my predecessor at the Ministry of Development, Mr. Pitsirlas, has put it in a special liquidation, with a law that you voted, the SYRIZA's people, in fact, have gone to the courts, you have proceeded with the process, you have hired the company that makes the liquidation, you have moved into workers' transfers. Did you expect that from me? You come to a company, which you yourself have cleaned up, and you even started the process of the public international competition to find a private investor - for this company we are talking about - to tell our own government why we are not getting money from the state budget to buy the company that you have cleared and made in a public international competition. I beg your pardon, gentlemen, but if this is not a political fraud - I say 'political' for reasons of courtesy - I do not know what it is called. I repeat: Mr Stergios Pitsirlas is the Minister who took out the Scaramaga shipyard in a special liquidation. Now SYRIZA tells me why the Mitsotakis government, why the state doesn't take Scaramaga shipyards? Well, are you all right? Now we're going to the best of the Elefsina shipyard. First of all, as far as the Elefsina shipyards are concerned, Mr Tsipras also asked whether we would continue the course and the agreement which the SYRIZA government had chosen. Yes, sir. So here I can assure you, Mr Tsipras, that in fact the Government of Tsipras, Mr Flamouraris and Mr Alexios Tsipras, had signed a pre-agreement - let us say it - an expression of political will to pass the Elefsinas shipyards to the ONEX company. Note, not that the Elefsina shipyards should be subsidised from the state budget and purchased by the State, but that the Elefsina shipyards should be sold to the ONEX company. Straight down is the signature of Alexis Tsipras and Alekos Flamburaris. Very good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u175	They do not belong to the State, to private individuals!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u176	That's right! But you mentioned Elefsina. So I am telling you, for this agreement you mentioned, that this company is in a premonition - with the signature of Tsipras and Flavourari - which says that we prefer that this company should pass to the company 'ONEX'. Yes, sir. You've done very well! So this agreement that you chose and wanted to have, but you were unable to do it - because, as you know, we are also in the time of 'we did not have time' - we will complete it, as we completed it, as we have done in Neorio Syros, which, when we received power, you really had started the process, but it was stuck and now it is done and it goes very well. I believe you've done half the job, and we're the other half. The Elefsinas shipyards are continuing, and we have also had extremely good developments which we will formally announce to you - I do not want to do so here - from the American side, which is actually moving on with this project, as we have really decided. It seems that in the next few months we will have the final passage of this company to "ONEX" and we will have important cooperation. Of course, I am glad - and I repeat, help you - because we will have the American flag at Elefsina Shipyards and every 4 July we will go together to celebrate that our friends from the United States will have the Elefsina Shipyards, with the help of both SYRIZA and the New Democracy. I was born a pro-American and still a pro-American. You went to the marches against America, but then you turned it around. It's okay. It's good you've turned it. I agree, and I like that people grow up and screw their minds. So our paths have been met and we are going together to the Elefsina Shipyards every 4 July to celebrate when the United States of America is taking the shipyards. You did not say that the state should take it, as you suddenly say today when you remembered your communist past. You have ruled now, you have taken the next step in life! I must therefore reflect on the general principles. I will tell you a basic difference with Portugal. As far as Portugal is concerned, when you say it is 16 billion, it has put in 1.2 billion for its airline. Did we even give AEGEAN EUR 1 and I didn't know it? We didn't even give EUR 1, not half of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u177	From two to 15?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u178	I'll come to the numbers later. I'm not done. We're still in general principles. So I tell you that we, fortunately, had a company, AEGEAN, which did not need or demand state aid. She went alone with the general guarantee tool, which we made for all the Greek companies, with the financial information she had and received the loan she wanted from the Greek banks, as all other companies took it, on the same terms and conditions. He did not get any State aid at all. The fact that we had a company that didn't need State aid and the Portuguese had a company that required state aid makes us less Portuguese? Come on, Christ and Holy shit! However, we are also going to a final general one - in order to reach agreement and reply - on whether the conditions for budgetary adjustment and the others, which I have been listening to before, have been changed. I do not know if you have understood this, but Greece has just come out of a major economic crisis. Obviously, the resources available in the Hellenic Republic are far less than the rest of the European countries. Because Greece is getting out of a crisis much longer, while the other countries, which did not have SYRIZA in 2015-2019, had five years of growth. We had five years of recession. Is that the same? So we had to be able to meet our needs with the much less money we had. So let's see what we've done so far. I want to make it clear so there's no misunderstanding. Personally, as Minister of Development, I do not have the slightest desire to use Greek taxpayers' money, just to give money to injurious businesses, just to live a few months longer and to make your communist dreams a reality. The businesses that will live will be the businesses that can live and the businesses that cannot live, restructure and become businesses that can live, because that is how it works the economic system in which we live. Maybe this system didn't like your youths, but to keep your chairs, you adapted yourself to it. This system is called capitalism. So I'm not gonna throw any taxpayers' money at any company. It's over! What are we gonna do? Our financial tools do exist, in order to help all capable and healthy businesses survive and cope with the damage caused by COVID, that is to say, companies that were healthy up to COVID and that, because of this unforeseen event and this unforeseen disaster, require financial support, of course through the financial instruments we have announced, such as TEMPUS II, the repayable advance, the guarantee fund. In other words, we are going to cure wet-treat businesses, which were healthy before disaster, and not just go to give money to increase the losses of companies that were damaged beforehand. I am not going to talk about Larco at all, first of all because it is not my Ministry's competence, but above all because we must speak frankly in life and in Parliament. LARCO has been producing losses for many years. Damages also produced on SYRIZA. I'm saying this so I don't get wrong. All four and a half years SYRIZA - every year - LARCO had huge losses. As to why, it is a great debate, but it is not here. But we're talking about an extreme loss-making operation. The idea that we sell out some national wealth in a company that loses hundreds of millions of dollars a year, owes PPC no power, does nothing, okay, let's come back to the real world. It's an extreme loss-making business. Why, it's a different-class conversation. So let's think about the substance. The Government of Mr Mitsotakis has implemented, first of all, a series of financial instruments which, Mr Papa, are not 2 billion. You're counting it wrong!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u179	I said the bailouts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u180	It's not two billion. 2 billion cash is the repayable advance, direct low-priced loan to businesses. They are 2 billion levered through TPIX II by systemic and other banks, through the banking system in companies. It's 7 billion from the levered guarantee fund, again to business. So, seven and two make us nine and two, make us 11. Portugal 13 billion, Greece 11. That's the difference in our intervention. Everything else you say is to waste time between us. Besides, I'm going to answer you to the other one that, I think, Mrs. Tyloridou said so, but I'm not sure. He said: Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Stakoras are going on and proud of the recession of 0.9% of the first quarter, but Mr. Stagiras warned us here about a great recession, about 16% dive in the second quarter. If I'm wrong, fix me. I think that's what you said on the subject. Do you know how much the recession in the United Kingdom was in April? You know? It was -20.4%. You're not telling me, do you know how much bigger it is to move an economy when all of its potential clients are in development? I am referring to the years 2015-2019. When you obviously can sell more exports because the economies that are your customers are developing. When you can have more tourists, because your customers' countries have more available income. When you can sell more services, because your customers' countries have more money. And how different is it that your economy is moving when everyone else has a huge recession? So, Mrs Tyloridou, to repeat this, if Mr Stagiras said a large fall of 16%, it will still be 4% less than the United Kingdom. Do you consider the United Kingdom economy to be a failure? At last, let's get serious, a little over there at SYRIZA. We're living a global disaster. As in the sanitary arm, Greece has managed to make us proud and so far - to beat wood - in a very good position, much better in other countries. The same goes for our economy. In the first quarter of 2020, the Greek economy had the lowest recession throughout the eurozone and was a positive surprise for the markets for what it achieved. I can now tell you that in the big part that concerns us all, which is tourism, the steps taken by the Greek economy are an example for other European countries. Everyone's going back to Greece to see what we're doing so they'll do it too. That's why we opened up faster than the others. That's why we have the first tourists, more than the others. Of course, our final result will not depend solely on our own possibilities. It'll depend on how the others go. If, in other words, Northern Europe - to be beaten - has a second wave of pandemics, Greek tourism will obviously have a bigger problem, as our customers will not be able to come. However, I imagine that you will not charge this to the Greek Government, which will not have managed to deal with COVID in Northern Europe. I imagine you'll give us that! That is where we do not have the responsibility for governance. So, judging the performance of our Greece - and this is a part of pride for all Greeks - this difficult first half of 2020, hard for all mankind around the world, Greece manages to be in the first positions in dealing with COVID and in the first positions in how our economy is evolving. To this day, Mr. Tsipras. What can we do? We do not make big statements that we will change Europe and have referendums, which led to capital control, to do the next day. We're a little more landed in fact. We said it was the right and left difference, logic and emotion. I had promised that the closure of my speech today cannot but, Mr Pappa, have a news item. That's a good statement on the cameras. But there's no adversarial. You come out and you talk alone. So, what did you say to the freaks we heard today? Today we have heard, at the moment the Greek people are listening to the news releases, they are listening to the websites, they are hitting the play and they hear your voice talking to Mr. Mononis. Now you don't like it. Mrs. Tyloridou told us about harm. You spoke with him intimacy and a little bit with light tongue, so a sample of the proximity of psychological, emotional and friendly, I'd say. You're saying incredible things. That Mr. Papagelopoulos had interests. That some people were making money out of this whole story. What did you answer? You've responded basically to two things. The first thing that's stitching. The service techniques of the Greek police and of Greek justice will be judged, to which I imagine you will resort. Because if anyone has falsified your words, there's a technical way of finding the falsification. You have all the legitimate rights to do whatever you want to Mr. Mioney. The second thing you said is that it's a product of illegal recording. That's worth it to think about here in the House a little bit more. You're not telling me, Mr. Papa, when Mr. Baltakos was written in a video by Mr. Cassidyris, obviously illegal, and the whole House was listening to the sound, Baltakos was expelled from Antonis Samaras in 25 seconds. Did anyone from New Democracy suggest that this recording was illegal? What we care about is whether it's illegal or legal, or whether you had any knowledge that Papaggelopoulos was making money and doing jobs with justice? Because, Mr Pappa, if you do indeed have a Minister of Government Tsipras, you admit to a third person that Deputy Minister of Justice Tsipras did 'jobs' and made money for judicial decisions, and all you have to do is say 'I'm sorry, I didn't know' then - I'm sorry - this is a picture of a deep-speaking, sepsis and corruption that has no precedent in post-Culture. Now, listen to the immeasurable. What did you find out to get today's egg off you? You said that Mr Samaras had to answer for a EUR 2.6 million mismatch, and so on. You're not telling me. Is it the case that Mrs Tulupaki archived against a SYRIZA government?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u181	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u182	Yeah. That's how the papers came to the House. It is a case that was initiated by Mrs Tulupaki because she found no evidence against Mr. Samaras nor against Mr. Papastavrous nor against Mr. Miononis who is now doing what you don't know, but then she was obviously your best friend. Mr. Poppa, I want to be honest. I didn't expect you to come to the House today. I'm impressed you're here. I'm impressed you're laughing. Today, Greek society is shocked by the image of a sad paradox. We were charged with 'NOVARTIS' that it was set up by Mr Janakopoulos and others. We've known about it ever since. Of course, Mrs Toulupakis is looking for me, which you have appointed, and which you are renounce today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u183	You're in control, aren't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u184	A little calm. We said we had the news item.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u185	Aren't they looking for you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u186	The fact that I'm being searched first, because you're a lawyer, I imagine you know it's not a charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u187	Minister, Mr. Janakopoulou, there is no challenging discussion, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u188	I imagine you know that, Mr. Janakopoulos. Because since you knew to go that night to the Arena Ice, you should be informed, even outright and inappropriately, something you know about looking for me. The fact that they've been looking for me for two years on your own behalf and they haven't found me anything - otherwise I would have been prosecuted - something he should have told you. So I'm waiting. You'll know something. After you've been talking to Mrs. Tulopakis, as it seemed last week, you know something. Don't worry. It's about time every scoundrel goes to his counter. It looks like it's gone. The Greek people have understood. The Special Court is close and we'll see for whom. But to return to you, Mr Papa, I would like you to tell us officially in the Greek Parliament if the dialogue is real, what you meant by saying that some make money out of this case, that Mr Papagelopoulos had his own agenda that ruined the central agenda "the shop", meaning the Tsipras government. Were the Tsipra government together? Was it a production of judges, expulsions and hatreds? Is that the Tsipra government? That's it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u189	Minister, you're getting away. Please, everybody.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u190	All this, Mr Pappa, tell us courageously, since you're here. Let the Greek people, who now listen to the sound document and find out, who has troubled us with the various misgivings of your government, what Mr Papagelopoulos has done there. Mr. Mioney says you didn't have any involvement. I'll take it. But you knew. That's what the sound says. You didn't have any involvement, Mr. Mioney says, but you knew some were doing business. And I ask: should you not do something as Minister and even the Left which you are fighting for the high ideas and the high ideals? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u192	Wait a minute. There is no staff in the timely questioning process. Mr. Pappas, who has been repeatedly debated, has the floor to answer. He'll be given more time. Mr. Janakopoulos, too. Despite the fact that I told Mr. Tsakiris that he would take the floor, I think that this cycle should be completed to get, Mr. Tsakiris, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u193	There are others, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u194	Of course there are others. You'll all have a chance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u195	The Parliamentary Representatives will not speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u196	Parliamentary representatives will also speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u197	Mr Georgiadis, Mr President, it is clear that every time he comes up to the Step he proves two or three things. The first is that they are governed by a political thinking of a baby really, that is, it blows two - three stereotypes at any political moment and we are. As if there has not been the coronary, as if Europe's decisions have not changed, it comes here and says that even Europe is saying that we need to make interventions, we are not going to do, because it is thrown money. To listen to this at the time when they close the door either to the returnee or to the other guarantee tools that it falls under the category of what you say 'zombie' and 'broken money'. That is your logic, and you said it very well. Thank you! I believe that political dialogue has really gone further!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u198	I'm sorry. Is that a deuteronology or a personal one?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u199	On staff now, I am very aware of your position. You are controlled by the NOVARTIS case, your claim that there was a tanker there has collapsed. I think you also confessed, because you have gone with Mionis and widened an indictment and now brought Mionis. We're the para-state, Mioney recorded me. We are the para-state. Really! Are we serious? What does the smoke say there? That Papastavrou - he says - is a best friend to the Prime Minister's wife and would never say a bad word about her and that - illegally, of course - I've come up with a conversation. What day? On the day that a documented testimony is revealed for 2.6m euros to Mr Papastavros. We're asking which pockets this money went to, Mr. Georgiadis. Do you have any information? Because if we had ten Papastaurou, 2.6 times 10 is 26. Isn't that right? And that's not all he says. He says more. But you don't. "He asked me to appoint a consul for the man of Greece in Israel." We're the para-state! And he's been recording me and he's coming and he's saying these and he's stepping on his shoe, of course. Along with him, and you press your shoe, because you just prove he knew something, and he knew something, too, and his best friend, who is his wife's brother friend, Mr. Mitsotakis, but there's no way they'll ever talk. As for the business, there are the critical and the cut-off arguments, which give you here to shout like you're selling nanogleka - don't laugh - that's exactly where I meant the jobs that Papastavros has done since, and Mr. Samaras called them in Maximos. It is about the personalization of political cowardice. Mr Samaras called in Maximou Philippakis and said to him: "Don't write about the children, they have helped us." Why? Mr Samaras spoke, it was agreed with Mr Samaras' speech. What's happened? She's afraid of the coronary glass and she's not coming to talk? Haven't you translated him a little political courage?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u200	How did Mr. Mionis help you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u201	Don't you remember Mr. Samaras' style in here that was inviting us for everything and telling us that he calls it "always" and men? Where are these days? His name sounds in the pan-Hellenic. To come here to tell us how he mediated, what the result of mediation was, how these golden children have helped New Democracy, why they had to stop writing the media. You don't want to know this, do you? Or were you outside the information loop then and don't know what was going on? That's what I might accept. I do not know when you entered the inner circle of Mr Samaras, but I repeat: This so-called shocking revelation is taking place in the days that have been revealed - firstly - that the main charge witness for the construction is a trade union with her husband in an account, which has received money from NOVARTIS and her husband, of course has only in 2018 damaged the Greek State by EUR 1.7 million and when the documentation comes, of course, that EUR 2.6 million has thrown a three-time round of the earth into various tax havens and ended in an account by Mr Papastavros. You're pressing your shoe, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u203	Wait a minute, Mr. Georgiadis. We've opened a bad one. Excuse me, Minister, but you opened it. We are no longer discussing the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u204	He wants to play in the channels.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u205	Wait a minute. I don't know where anyone wants to play, but we don't talk about the question anymore. I will give you the floor, Minister, and then we will enter the parliamentary representatives, so that we can also be in accordance with the procedure. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u206	Mr. Poppa, first, if I were you and I had asked someone to testify against the wife of a political opponent...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u207	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u208	That's what the sound says, that's what my ears say, that's what they hear our ears say, "Say something about Marva."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u209	He mentioned Marva all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u210	If I had done this, Mr. Pappa, in my word of honour, I would have been ashamed to get out of my house. You targeted Ms. Marva Grabovski - Mitsotakis for three years, you carried out three hundred checks, you laid lyrics and tied to her, just to hit Kyriakos Mitsotakis. But that's not what came out of you either. And that's what you failed. That's what we hear in sounding today with our ears, I repeat. Secondly, let's go to Samara's. You know, Mr. Pappa, theories are nice and how to throw the ink away, to blur what we hear, but there's no sound Samaras doing any mediation. An acoustic Poppa there's only one mediation for Papaggiopoulou to get Filippakis money. There's no more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u211	Why isn't he coming to say it here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u212	So, Mr. Pappa, let go of what Samaras won't do...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u213	Tell him to come. We know what he's gonna do. The duck.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u214	Stay on what you did, Mr. Papa, and why you made mediation and how much money you said to give Papagelopoulos or Philippakis or to whom else Miones. That is what the Greek people are interested in and if that is the duty of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u215	Where is he? I'm waiting for him to come.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u216	Whether Samaras has political courage or not, you won't judge him, Mr. Poppa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u217	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u218	He has been judged by his political route throughout the time when the Greek people honoured him with all their positions. Do you know what else he's judged of? The phrase that will take you to the end, as it goes to you, because Mr. Pappa - I told you before and you didn't understand - because you spoke of a parastate and that you were written, aren't you saying to me: Do you know? On Saturday in PARAPOLITIC, did we hear other sounds? How did the SYRIZA write Pan Kammenos? Did you hear that? The sounds that SYRIZA and the SYRIZA on SYRIZA recorded the night circuit with the involvement of the then Minister of Defence and his wife, did you hear them? Saturday in "Parapolistics" was. Didn't you even hear that sound?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u219	It's not like that. You're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u220	That was not a parastate, that was a state!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u221	Excuse me, Minister. I will intervene, because we have opened the entire agenda for parapolitical newspapers, radios.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u222	Mr. Pappa, today you are severely exposed to the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u223	Shut up!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u224	What sounds like to be said to a businessman from the mouth of a minister for another Minister's colleague, Mr Papagelopoulos - because no matter how badly you are here, who has ears is listening - is inconceivable things. As far as the dreadful complaint is concerned, 'it seems to me that'. That's what he says. The documented complaint, which you say, is in the text 'it seems to me that'. It's like the same as "NOVARTIS", we saw how it followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u225	A, it's 'it seems to me that'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u226	I repeat: this shocking allegedly, Mrs Toulupakis testified her on SYRIZA's file, because she found nothing. So no shocking statement exists. Do you only know what's left of the whole story? That within the Maximos Concert Hall and the Ministries, the Tsipra Ministers did "jobs" and mediators with entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u227	Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u228	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u229	This is too bad, because today, as much as you move your head, gentlemen, this is what the Greek people hear in the bulletins, it sees in the sites and everywhere. You can no longer deny them. He hears that Mr. Papagelopoulos made a lot of money, according to Nikos Papapas and had another agenda, which ruined the agenda of the "magazio", i.e. Tsipras. Nor did you answer that, i.e. what was the agenda for the'magazin' and what Tsipras had had in any case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u230	I'm sorry, but we should stay in a context. Once, Mrs. Tulupaki is the right one and she puts it in the file. Next time, Mrs. Toulopakis is the valor, and she does what she does.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u231	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u232	Do you want to? Because if you want to answer me, Mr Georgiadis, I have to tell you with my role as President that you have taken an issue concerning the Greek economy a moment ago and made it parapolitical. Do you want to discuss this with the Bureau?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u233	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u234	No, you won't. When I give you the floor after your dentistry, you will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u235	Okay, with my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u236	Mr. Janakopoulos has the floor. I hope we'll stay here a little while, though, I guess now... Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr President. It is really very difficult to follow Mr Georgiadis' encouragement to have a serious debate, given that Mr Georgiadis is also involved in the debate. You can understand that this is in itself a contradiction. Today it was given that it would try to divert the debate, because if I were in his place and listened to specific political criticisms about the government about the way it has managed the Greek economy all the time, I would rather instead of answering for my portfolio and for the real political agenda, I would try to turn the debate into a number of other shameful ones. I tried to listen carefully to Mr. Georgiadis. It is said that the way it speaks with Parliament has elements of paradoxicality, contradictions, lack of arguments, voices, screams, pity. In any case, I will try to give some answers. I understand it's extremely difficult. First of all, because Mr Georgiadis has not understood what we are talking about today. It considers, by comparing the period 2015-2019, that the European framework is the same. Mr Georgiadis, let me inform you that the European framework has changed. Question One: The Stability Pact has been suspended. Why did Europe decide to suspend the Stability Pact, because that's how it came to her, for fun? That is one of the founding - if you want - structural, nuclear, one of the nuclear characteristics of the European architecture is suspended. Why? Because Europe is aware of the fact that it has contradictions, that it must move to a much more interventionist policy, a policy of strengthening the economy, which will not be limited by the Stability Pact. For what? To reduce the current trend. That is what Europe is doing right now. The second thing it does is that the European Central Bank is mobilising a huge repurchase programme on the secondary government bond market for the same reason to strengthen liquidity. The third thing that it does and which you did not understand - I do not know if you know it even - is that it suspends the validity of Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on competition law, State aid to private enterprises. Why is he doing this? It does this in order to give room to Member States to strengthen with specific financial instruments of companies in need. And is SYRIZA asking you: What is your plan to use exactly this great institutional change and the great opportunity that the European Union gives the Member States and Greece to strengthen specific businesses, without being restricted by state aid law and solving problems, which some of them are years old and, of course, are getting worse because of the situation with COVID -19? And you come here and tell us that you won't throw away the Greek people's money, that it's not about throwing the Greek people's money! So you want to tell me that you have the possibility - you have admitted - to rescue businesses, you have the institutional framework, you have the liquidity, but you choose not to do so! This is a leading moment of political cynicism. In other words, despite the fact that we have the possibility as a Greek government because of the new institutional framework that Europe operates to rescue businesses, to save jobs, to rebuild with the specific financial instruments of "LARCO", EAV, EAW and also to create conditions for even better and even more effective operation of private enterprises, you say that none of this will do, because this is a bit of the Greek taxpayer's money. You should go and tell the workers there to their businesses and families. I think they'll appreciate it properly. An excellent political statement by the Minister of Economy of the Hellenic Republic that the rescue of businesses, the rescue of jobs, the fact that we have the opportunity to support thousands of families and do not do so, is a political choice now by the government and not the result of certain limitations on the part of the European Union. And now to come to these. Germany, Portugal, Sweden, France and Austria are all throwing taxpayers' money! And you said something else. You said - by doing these extremely advanced mathematics to which you have been engaging for some time not only you, but the whole of the government - that Portugal has given 13 billion and we have given 11 billion. Once again you are confusing them again, you are again trying to blur the waters. We are talking about the approved drafts by the Competition Committee, by the Commission. Portugal has 13 billion, and you, Mr Georgiadis, the Minister of Economy, have 2 billion. Leave the rest of the levers, how the 14 is 24 or 54 and 84. Put that aside. How much has the Commission approved? He's approved 2 billion. That's the answer. It's over and out. All the rest is to create impressions and blur the waters. You said something else. The resources - you say - are extremely fewer in Greece than in the other countries of Europe. Or you don't know what you're saying or lying on purpose. And I'll explain why. At the moment Greece has a liquidity pillow. Fifteen days have passed since Mr Stagera's last statement that he has reduced it from 41 billion to 32 billion. Now I imagine he's been to 20 billion. We're waiting for Mr. Stakoura to tell us how much he is. This cushion had been secured by the previous government and was estimated at about EUR 40 billion or EUR 37 billion or EUR 38 billion depending on the time when the calculation was made, other moments were estimated at around 41 billion. Be careful to see how it was structured. The 15.6 billion were indeed locked just to serve the Greek debt. In other words, it was the transfer made by the ESM, the European Stability Mechanism, which could only be used subject to approval by the European Stability Mechanism, and only to reduce the Greek debt. Wonderful. There's another 25 billion left. So this liquidity of 15% of GDP is unprecedented for a European country. In other words, Greece had the possibility of moving towards increased budgetary expenditure, given that the Stability Pact had been suspended, far greater than the other countries, and - beware of the detail - without increasing even by one euro its public debt by one euro. This advantage you had as a government, but you made it unthinkable. What was unthinkable at the beginning of the COVID crisis -19? The unthinkable was that you should not support the Greek economy and waste half of the "xilari". Can you tell me how you got that thing? In other words, you did not increase the budget expenditure, nor did you strengthen the businesses, nor serious work support programmes - we will come there, the central political choice that you have made - you have also created the pillow, you have disappeared. Where'd that go? You'll answer or start the show back here and the stories. Answer one, two, three, four clear. Now we're going to the recession. You have already said that Greece is not in recession or, at any rate, has less recession. First of all, as Minister of Economy, you should know a very specific thing. What's that? That the Greek economy, when there are fluctuations in international trade, is the last affected. It does not have the structural features of Great Britain, with which you tried to make a parallelion, which proves your deepest ignorance of the mechanisms of the global economy. So when a country is not exposed to the fluctuations in international trade, such as England, such as the United States, like Germany, it is obvious that in the first phase of the crisis it will have less recession. But keep a small basket, Mr. Georgiadis, because your competitivity is in complete misfortune with what is happening in the real economy and you will find it in front of you. I'll tell you what. For your sake, Mr. Georgiadis. It doesn't correspond to this party, the new success story that you came here to announce with a large number of arrogance and complacency in relation to what is currently happening in the Greek economy, which is a huge economic disaster, unprecedented, worse even than the one you brought along with PASOK in 2010, unless you were then, because I remember something videos that you then smashed Kostas Karamanlis. Now, of course, you're in the same party. That's good. Anyway, it's a shift for you. Good, then, for you, bad for Mr Karamanlis possibly. I don't know who might judge that. But let's go a little bit further. You did not have a recession in the first quarter of 2020. You've had since the first of 2019. Will you tell us why? What happened? You had a remission before the coronary. And that's why SYRIZA is to blame, and that's why the coroner is to blame? The only country whose economy has shrinked in the last quarter of 2019 throughout the European Union what was it? Greece. With what government? Mr. Mitsotakis. With what Minister of Economy? Mr. M. M. M. M. M. Georgiadis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You're gonna say something about this? What was it? What happened was that you would bring the take-off of the Greek economy, 4% growth, there would be an investment explosion and all that. What happened, Mr. Georgiadis? Well, in any case, all of this in conjunction with the extreme anti-virtual policy, extremist class policy, guided by your ideas and your likes, which say "only if the labour market is demolished, if every labour right is cleared, only if wages are reduced..." You reduce wages by your own vote and give the market signal and the private sector a total reduction in wages. You reduced 20% of wages by your vote to participate in the program and gave a signal throughout the market "start to reduce wages". Do you know what's going on in the labour market? Full-time jobs, part-time jobs, wage cuts, redundancies. It's actually pogroming against the workers with your own slogan. These, together with the absolute insufficiency with which you handled the emergency need of the Greek economy, create an explosive mixture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u238	Mr. Janakopoulos, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u239	And you can't manage this explosive mixture, but also another explosive mixture. Do you know what the other explosive mixture is? That you have personally played in a theory of the allegedly construction of "NOVARTIS", which has collapsed three - four consecutive times over the last few weeks, firstly, the fact that the husband of the main witness who supports these incomprehensible things seems to have caused damage to the Greek public because of his special relationship with "NOVARTIS". I'm talking about Mrs. Ryku's husband. Secondly, since Mr. Samaras has such great political courage as he is such a huge political leader...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u240	Mr. Janakopoulos, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u241	Mr. Vitsa, allow me. You don't interrupt neither the Minister nor anyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u242	I gave everyone a little more time. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u243	Twenty-five minutes the Minister spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u244	Good. You, twelve, go to fifteen. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u245	Fifteen I'll be done. He's allegedly received 2.6m euros his partner. Why does he not come here to oppose the preliminary committee? There'll be privacy. Why isn't he coming? What are you afraid of? Who's afraid of? But something else has recently come to publicity, which seems to be a service to you to confront it. The 20 million Mr. Petsas gave us and he won't tell us where he gave it to us. Where did Mr. Peaches give these 20 million dollars? So, are you somehow convinced in the government and starting the distractions and have you, Mr Georgiadis, the absolute arm of the extreme right in New Democracy, to take lessons in the Left about para-states? How about you? Will you teach us about the paratrooper? Well, it looks like you're very depressed, you're very nervous, as you're nervous and the government is with everything that's coming and with everything that's going to see the light of publicity, despite the 20 million that Mr. Petsas gave to his friends and friends, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u246	Thank you very much. I'll say something Mr. Abedlas usually says. Don't embarrass me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u247	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u248	He'll give you a personal answer. I will give you the floor on personal grounds - what am I to do now? - and you'll put mine, if you like, because I'm going to leave the seat...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u249	But that can't be!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u250	Well, it can't be. That's how we started. Don't look at your watch.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u251	He's a parliament, he doesn't need a watch.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u252	You are the President-in-Office of the debate and the procedure has escaped.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u253	You're welcome. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u254	It's ten o'clock, and we haven't talked about staff issues and exchanges.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u255	Did we open this debate?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u256	I can't hear it, Mr. Catherine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u257	It can't be, Mr. President. You'll leave and we'll stay and we'll wait to talk. You blamed before you were right that the debate was excruciated.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u259	So you gave the floor and continue to reproduce this diversion with your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u260	I don't see any diversion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u261	Minister, a little patience! You'll tell your dentist! If you stay! This cannot be done, Mr President. We're waiting to talk sometime!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u262	We're wasting time...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u263	We're all waiting. Minister, you have two minutes for the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u264	Mr President, only one reference to your world and correct comment in part. You said why we should have this debate beforehand with Mr Pappas' sound. The 'digital question' incorporates the'supervision' which we are discussing, which also includes 'provisional'. The House doesn't live in a glass tube. He lives in the real world.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u265	It is forbidden under the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u266	So being Mr. Pappas in the House today and not being given the opportunity to answer what all of Greece is talking about is almost vulgar. This debate and the Greek people had to assess what they said and what I said, because this is how democracy works. He said, however, that Mr.Janakopoulou, who spoke of my goodness with great pain of soul and said - to come to the staff - that the New Democracy and the PASOK destroyed Greece, but then Mr.Georgiadis was not in the New Democracy and many such things. Didn't you say, Mr. Janakopoulos? But it was in PASOK, Mrs. Jackie, who was sitting a bit behind you. Now he just happened to be gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u267	And what happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u268	Tell me, Mr. Janakopoulos: When you constantly mention the change of party from me, for those who have come from PASOK to SYRIZA why don't you ask the same question, after destroying PASOK Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u269	I have commented positively on it, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u270	Why don't you ask Mr. Spirtzi why he destroyed Greece? Why don't you ask Mr. Ragosi why he destroyed Greece? Why don't you ask Mrs. Jackis why he destroyed Greece, since you said the PASOK destroyed Greece just now? The answer is very simple. Because in distortion you're good, but not so good! To close it, Mr. Janakopoulos, listen. The far right-wing caramel has been worn on me almost since the first day of my political journey. All my politicians have used it from time to time. Over the years the Greek people have been constantly re-electing me as a MP and my political career has gone from good to better. So it doesn't bother you that maybe this "caramella" doesn't work, find anyone else? As far as the major one is concerned, you said what the businessmen would say, who I said to throw away the Greek people's money....
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u271	The workers, I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u272	Well, that's political. You should tell your dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u273	I did not know that you were arguing for the entrepreneurs of LARCO, Scaramaga and Elefsina and the other companies you said. I have explained very well about each company, about the shipyards - not to repeat them - which you have put under the government of SYRIZA, and what I have said and what we all know about it. Of course we are with the workers and workers' jobs, Mr Janakopoulos, both in Larco and in the shipyards and elsewhere, when companies find a sustainable solution to continue to profit from them. Because if it's just going to a government and giving money to live another two months, after two months the money's over, it's still the workers in the air. We are hurting workers, which is why we want to find a real solution for these companies so that the workers do not lose their jobs. But this is going to happen with regular companies, not with companies as you dream about ruffles. Shutting down...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u274	Yes, but close, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u275	I'm hanging up. Because you falsely said that the European Union clause has been suspended and governments can go and give any company they want, LARCO or any other...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u276	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u277	...that's not true, it's completely false.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u278	Well, don't answer now. You can say that in your dentistry too, it's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u279	That is a second speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u280	All State aid and now the new scheme passes through DG Comp's approval, as well as the 'LUFTHANSA', as has been done by the Austrians, as everyone is going through.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u281	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u282	Everybody's coming through!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u283	And of course, these companies, which have multiplely been accused by DG Comp in the past, would be cut as in the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u284	So, what do you suggest? You're confused.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u285	Because the rules are just for the COVID, it's not for us to do...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u286	Mr. Georgiades, you take time from Mr. Bukkoro right now. I would like to wish Mrs Sacorafa, who is in charge of the Bureau. I would like to say at the same time, Mr Georgiadis, that your position on my own assessment, that you have transformed the debate by way of grammar into a timely question, is unworthy of a comment and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u287	All right, what do we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u288	Mr. Bukkoros has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u289	Mr President, I beg your pardon, but does Mr. Bukokouros take the lead? So, is the government talking first, SYRIZA and then it's us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u290	In the process of topical questions following the party's parliamentary representative, who is inquiring, the parliamentary representatives are given the floor during parliamentary power.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u291	Mr. Bukkaro, you can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, undeniably this Nordic who has come to the public in recent days by means of publications does not even honour the protagonists, but I also believe that the political system and its credibility are affecting the whole. I call on the chosen colleagues of the Officerial Representation to consider and place what would happen in this Chamber, if your colleague's wife's position were, in these creepy dialogues, the wife of today's Prime Minister. The House would be burned! I hear about various testimonies, which seem to me to be a distraction, because, ladies and gentlemen, they are sound documentaries, legally or illegally acquired, and they are other testimonies. Especially in the case where we are discussing a multitude of testimonies collapsed. The burden of proof is borne by the witness and not by the defendant. And in this story we have seen a complete collapse, protected witnesses, hooded witnesses, now we hear other testimony. The charges remain to be proved. It's a little different quality from a audio documento. I'll come to your topical question now. I am pleased with the question, because it has shown that the differences between the current government and the opposition have shown that on the brink of the question. And they're distinctive. Indeed, I agree that growth rates are the ones that show the course of the economy. It's a capital size. Asked by SYRIZA representatives, how can you have been in recession before krone in the last quarter of 2019? First, objective comparison of growth rates is the comparison of the current quarter of the year with the corresponding quarter of the previous year. You say that we went to a recession in 2019, which was unstable, because there was 1% growth and you ignore that your government in 2018 had given the social allowance of EUR 1 billion in the last quarter of 2018, while in 2019 it was paid to May, before municipal elections and European elections. This in itself is a size which can modify - not overthrow - growth rates. But, with carelessness, I have the impression that you're coming to this Chamber and talking about growth rates. Because the medium-term growth you have given the country was 0.7%, when the average European average for the years of your own governance was three times higher. And in 2015 you did not get an economy in recession, ladies and gentlemen, you got an economy in growth of about 1%. This is what ELSTAT's revised figures in 2018 for 2014 say that the Samaras government gave you 1% growth. And what did you hand over to the Mitsotakis Government? Growth of 0.7%. And we're coming to today. Indeed, in the first quarter of 2019, the recession in Greece moved to 0.9%. The rest of Europe was at 3.6%. In other words, it was four times the recession in the European Union. Of course, we are all concerned about what will happen in the second quarter, but we will see what will be the medium-term retreat of the Greek economy at the time, which we believe will soon end either by the discovery of the vaccine or by limiting the transmission of the coronary. So, ladies and gentlemen, do not wish to deepen the recession, because Greece is currently facing the economic issue that has arisen, but particularly in dealing with the pandemic, if you like, has become a very high position among the European states. You came here and told us - so I say that I am pleased with your question - to discuss state capitalism. Indeed, this is a warning difference between the New Democracy and SYRIZA. Because we believe that state capitalism is totalitarian capitalism and is far from our own liberal and democratic ideology, I would say that we respect your view, it is a change. You come after five years while you've signed memos, you've signed overcrowdeds, you've taken back referendums, and you've asked us to follow your own ignorant tactics. So when you went for a referendum, you came back like wet cats and signed a memorandum. You're calling us today to put all the money on the table like there's no tomorrow, why? To be in the same position as you? It becomes a prudent, planned and targeted management by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. So far, the results deserve us. I'm not saying we won't have a recession. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The assessment cannot be accurate at this time - one minute and I shall end, Madam President - by commenting on these of state capitalism. In fact, apart from putting all the money on the table, you are distorting the position of the European Union. Because the European Union is calling for the support of the businesses affected by COVID -19. It does not ask for the aid of firms in difficulty for too many years. He's not asking. Do you think we don't know that the financial restrictions have been lifted? If the budgetary restrictions, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, had not been lifted, how could we transfer the tax obligations of the Greeks? How could we reduce VAT? How could we give the 80 % state guarantee loans? How could we finance so many branches in the primary sector? But it is true that all this is controlled by the Competition Directorate. Telling us to make proposals that will be rejected harms our credibility and credibility is a bet that has been won by this government of Mr Mitsotakis. That's why we can borrow with 1.57, while we're borrowing from the markets 3.9. That is why, if you wish, we have the opportunity to make a commitment for 32 billion and 24 in total with the leverage that has been decided so far, plus the NRP programming period from 2021 to 2027. All of this is a number of tens of billions that presupposes that with prudent management we will have a better future and will be able to cope better with the heavy consequences of COVID -19.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u293	Please, Mr. Colleague, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u294	I'm done, Madam President. You tell us here to build a new "Olympian" to pay 1 million euros a day, you tell us to create new OTE to become "works" and all of this. These are far from our ideology and practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u295	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Katrinis, now has the floor. Come on, Mr. Colleague, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I cannot begin with the fact that the Greek people are watching through revelations that the media saw the operation of a real circuit involving politicians, lawyers, police officers. There is a serious political issue about the functioning of a mechanism that operated on the previous government with political coverage. Phone records, video transactions, file delivery. A mechanism, therefore, which, as a normal paradox, penetrated higher government blocks. So all of this we have asked for Greek justice to be investigated. We have tabled a relevant question today. I think that combined with what they have seen and the light of publicity today, they are causing great concern for the citizens with what the government, the state and for whom it was actually taking the decisions. I cannot answer what was heard for 2010. I was pleased to hear the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman talking about responsibilities and Mr Karamanlis, because SYRIZA had spread a veil of protection to the destructive governance of the five-year Karamanlis, which threw the country on the rocks and led to the unprecedented debt crisis. I cannot, however, comment on what the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has said, following on from what the Minister has said about the credibility of the government. What is the credibility, ladies and gentlemen of the government? When the Treasury Minister in the media said we'd have a growth rate of 2.8% when the coronary was ante portas? Or do you say about the yield of the bonds and you forget that the European Central Bank buys all the bonds of the Greek State and that is why the bond yield is low? You celebrate the QE, which is a purely political decision of the European Central Bank. However, we are going to go on the important issue, which, unfortunately, with the choice of the Minister for Development has only gone out of discussion on television and the creation of impressions. You were aware, ladies and gentlemen, that the Commission has already called on third countries to respect state aid rules, aggressive takeovers against European companies, which now due to the suspension of economic activity and the withdrawal of stock exchange value, was an easy prey, especially for companies from China. The evidence they saw yesterday is revealing. China's investment from 1.4 billion in 2003 reached 35 billion in 2019. The European Union has reasonably taken its measures. It has suspended Articles 107 and 108, encouraged European governments to acquire shares in strategic industries and businesses, and has already presented the White Paper in order to shield them from the acquisition from third countries. Already in Spain, Italy and Germany for two years now there have been strict controls when there is a acquisition of undertakings from third countries. In Greece, is that the case? So far, we haven't seen anything like this. All we have seen today was the Minister of Environment and Energy in the role of Moses with the ten commands again talking about privatisation, privatisation and privatisation. And, of course, it is oxymoorious for SYRIZA to blame New Democracy for the privatisation regime, SYRIZA who signed the concession of the public property for a hundred years. The privatizations, which, according to estimates by the competent authorities of 2.5 billion, are estimated not to catch over 350 million. Nevertheless, the government with today's statements by the Minister for the Environment is talking about further deprivation of IPTO, about privatization of the TENO, about the infrastructure, the DEPA of Commerce, unprecedented privatisations and without an assessment of the real benefits we will have for the Greek economy. We are now going to the Scaramaga Shipyards for which there has been so much dialogue. SYRIZA remembered when he claimed to abolish Law 3885, he'll stack them as soon as he comes to power. A court ruling of 2017 and where the owner has to be pressed, the government leads HSY to special liquidation. Land, floating tanks, sell tugs belonging to the commercial department. Today we are talking about no commitment to the workers both by the Minister and by the manager and certainly no commitment to the repayment of the debts, since the law of SYRIZA and these will be provided after the management costs and after the public expenditure. Elefsina Shipyard: The obligations of November 30, 2019 only in the public and the insurance funds exceed EUR 93 million. Indeed, Minister, is it possible today for a private person who owes EUR 93 million to be prevented from pressing on with the company's restructuring and takeover plan, especially when an investor has been found and the role of the state is to facilitate an investor who will ensure employees' wages, jobs and respect total contracts? The government observes. Mr. Georgiadis has been saying since November that the matter is resolved. That's what Flevaris said. He said that two months ago. The same thing he said last week was that the Elefsina shipyard solution is progressing. Eleven months have passed, and you cover the current owner, who owes 94 million to the public. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. I want the tolerance that the New Democracy colleague has had. I think that only Mr Stakoura's abhorrence ten days ago is that we have an obligation as a state to support the defence industry. The NSAs had a resolution plan that we delivered in 2015, which was abandoned by the previous government and the design was overturned. The NSAs have specialised staff and now need to activate the collective agreements. The EAW, which implements a very important programme, unfortunately, states that the EAW is also unable to serve, because it has been abandoned by the previous government, as well as by the current government. LARCO is a company that owes its viability to State intervention so far. Of course, mistaken administrative options have been made, of course the high energy costs and high bank borrowing rates are at stake. However, it is an undertaking that can really go ahead and special liquidation does not ensure sustainability and has so far not presented an integrated operational plan to be financed, for example, the investment of hydro-metallic industry which could really be beneficial to our country. I won't say anything about the liquidity tools, Minister. We will talk to the committee tomorrow about what was good in the government today, which, unfortunately, companies are experiencing more than 80% of them in the completely inverse way and do not see at this time any access to liquidity. In the firms in question, you are making the condition that they should be financed. In fact, this should have been negotiated on liquidity instruments, particularly on the Guarantee Fund, so that these businesses can be accessed. It's never too late. You should do it, even at the last minute. To conclude, Madam President - and I thank you very much for your tolerance - I think that SYRIZA's interest in operations which he himself left as a government with a total abandonment of five years can only be regarded as hypocritical. There is a government inertia for strategic enterprises, particularly defence industries and shipyards. There is an incomprehensible insistence on privatisation at all costs, when other countries ensure their own businesses. At the moment, there is a need for a serious debate in an institutional, political, social and level of bodies to make use of the money that will come from the Recovery Fund, of course, focusing on jobs, which are directly threatened now and now in the next period, and we do not see any particular concern from the government, but also to finally change the country's development model, which I think should not repeat the mistakes made without levelling up what was right and can be supported today in another form of development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u298	Thank you very much, Madam President. Of course, we have heard the shortest joke today by Mr Kalamatiano, that two worlds conflict, SYRIZA and New Democracy, while it is the same world and incomprehensible, that is, the world that wants to manage this rotten and barbaric system. And, of course, we must admit that an unprecedented attempt has been made to extremise the European Union. And what we have not heard of the European Union. We have heard even that the European agenda has changed, Mr Janakopoulos said. Of course, the European agenda has been adapted to the current needs of the multinationals and to how the multinationals of the European Union will be saved. However, the nature of the European Union has not changed at all as a wolf alliance that strongly attacks the needs of its people. That hasn't changed. On the contrary, it is even more confirmed. And why does the European Union give these huge packages of financial support through the Commission, through the European Central Bank? Because she just wants to play too, to take part in the game of competition of huge packages available to the United States to save their own multinationals and China to save her own. And this competition cannot be left out of the European Union, so that it does not lose any more part of the competition between large imperialist centres. Thus, it finances two types of large business groups in a thousand ways. And at the same time, with this funding, it tramples, breaks labour rights everywhere, in all the Member States of the European Union, whether they are social-democratic governments or conservative, from Spain to Germany, Portugal and Italy. In all Member States, labour rights are being trampled over. Millions of jobs are being lost. Unemployment is fast-moving. Labour relations are overturned. Any employment rights that are left are being violated even more. Because the European Union, along with the package of these measures, says: we must speed up the promotion of reforms, the European agenda for reforms. This means much cheaper labour without insurance and structured rights to ensure the competitiveness and profitability of capitalist groups and at the same time to create an even more favourable environment for the action of business groups. This policy of the European Union is in every way appalled by it. You are compiling what is happening in other countries, where people are under severe attack to save business groups. You summarize the fact that the European Union, along with this package, will impose tough memorials, the European memoranda of the European semesters, in all the Member States of the European Union. To obtain this funding, the recovery programmes of all Member States will be approved, in line with the priorities and hierarchies of the European Union and the Commission. It has shaped the 'SURE' programme that they celebrate. Even SYRIZA celebrates this program that tells workers that you have to pay to work. Because - I am sorry - the workers' money is available for the European Union to finance the 'guarantee' of jobs. And what jobs does it fund? It finances these which are partly converted into temporary work, rotating work. In other words, it tells the workers that to have a job you must pay on the other hand, it is breaking their working rights under the 'SURE' programme or the 'CONTACT' programme, as the New Democracy Government says, in order to speed up rotating work and part-time work. And the third element, which you're not saying, is who's gonna pay for all this. The peoples of Europe will pay them. Money doesn't fall out of the sky. Money is the value of the workers who steal it from the states, the employers. They will also be invited to pay for these huge packages, which will either borrow or guarantee the European Union. That's what you're trying to hide together with all the rest. Secondly, we are in favour - you say - of state capitalism. Really? What does that mean? What does "saving business" mean? It means'rescue the shareholders'. The State intervenes to ensure that shareholders do not suffer the damage. And it transfers business losses on the backs of taxpayers and people's units. This is to make them viable after business and be able to surrender either to their old shareholders or to new shareholders who will buy them again for a piece of bread. And we have huge experience in this case. The government of Constantine Karamanlis has been in difficulty. PASOK encouraged them to privatise them and shut them down. This was done in different phases. And today, we have a repetition of what we've seen. After all, it is no coincidence that even in businesses under public control over the past few years, regardless of who was government, whether it was New Democracy or PASOK, or SYRIZA, labour relations were cracking. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One third of its employees under public control were contract workers. More than 60% of workers in the other companies under public control in the energy sector are contractors. These are your results. Why did this happen? They've been made so the workers can't have rights. Even in the public sector there is an army of consumable contractors from all governments. And in the picture of the businesses that have been discussed, you have all put the hand in the way of the New Democracy and the PASOK and SYRIZA. For the shipyards, no one disagrees with you that they should be delivered to Americans to become new bases for the American fleet in the New Syros, but also in Elefsina. All this is accompanied by an attack on workers' rights. Not even stable employment in Syros have been under the American control that is the company that manages them. Contracting workers give and take to these shipyards. Who didn't pay her back? Not all governments proceeded to defiance of ODA? Experienced workforce from the ODA has left. It was weakened by ODA staff and you were all promoted the one-sided dependence of ODA on 'LOCHEED'. Therefore, the fate of ODA is linked to the ‘LOCKHEED’ and its course. Full deportation for NSAs. They could not execute orders either on the Government of SYRIZA and on the Government of New Democracy or PASOK. They've shrinked and become what they are today. From this point of view, therefore, we are not talking about LARCO, because all this payroll and privatisation plans have been made by the SYRIZA government that is trying to save these businesses today. The new Republic, with enormous cynicism, has today been placed by the Minister of Development, with the same cynicity as the seasonal workers in the tourism sector, who half of them are not receiving any subsidy at all, because they are not covered by the law. The other half should live... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will conclude on the basis of the time that everyone else has done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u299	The time for other colleagues was more than nine minutes. Please very much. I haven't given anyone. You'll be done in two minutes. You're already done. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u300	We followed the debate. This whole time it's started...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u301	Colleague, there's a rule, and I think you should all respect him in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u302	There is a regulation for everyone, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u303	That's right! Nine minutes is running out of time. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u304	And not now start trying to stop the voice of the JRC. The JRC will complete its position as they did through the comfort both of the representatives of the New Democracy and of the SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u305	Mr. Comrade, please! Listen to me, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u306	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u307	No one wants to cut off the voice of the JRC in the Chamber and you know it very well. The time given to everyone is two minutes longer. Please don't make any impressions, especially because it's the camera in the Chamber! Please! As many as the other colleagues have taken, you have also taken. Please, Mr. Comrade! It's the pluralist time you've done it! It's a lot of time you've done it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u308	Your attitude is unacceptable! You can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u309	Do you want me to read to you the time of your colleagues?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u310	Read about it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u311	So let me read you. Mr. Janakopoulos spoke for sixteen minutes and will lose his second language. Mr. Bukokouros spoke eight minutes and forty-one seconds. Mr. Katrins spoke nine minutes. I told you that you would take the time that other colleagues have taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u312	Previous speakers? The Minister? The rapporteurs?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u313	I would ask you not to use these words against the Bureau again, especially when you are in this step! No one is wrong with the Communist Party of Greece and no one cuts his voice in this Chamber, especially from me. Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u314	You've given multiple tests!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u315	Mr Villiardos Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u316	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is hard to talk about the economy in the middle of such a scandal, which is certainly a shame for all of us, but I will try. First of all, we want to tell the Minister who has given us the honour to answer our questions beforehand. He is not here, of course, that when we wait for substantial answers, not for policies. The term 'Player' is indeed the first time that we have been given, obviously as an escape. As for the banks, Iceland closed them without facing serious problems, realizing that it does not make sense to keep throwing water in a hole bucket. As far as the 30% payment obligation with cards to avoid tax evasion is concerned, this is the usual excuse that certainly does not apply. Not only are the Greeks taxed, but almost all other peoples. Today, a fraud was discovered in Germany of ‘WIRECARD’ of EUR 1,9 billion. On the other hand, 30% is burdening everyone, and it clearly supports banks. We shall begin, in this matter now, by the fact that the government has decided on its own to close the economy without even asking anyone to get the House's approval even retrospectively, such as the Danish Prime Minister's being investigated. It should therefore also be investigated in Greece on which criteria the horizontal locking of the economy was decided. I repeat, only the horizontal. In particular, as regards the measures adopted by the Government with the seven PPAs it brought to Parliament, the initial communications on 28 March and the final ones on 20 May did not provide total quantification, except for a total cost of EUR 14.5 billion in its communication of 20 May. The measures, however, are certainly not enough to move our economy back and fall short of the Europeans, even if the supposed package of EUR 750 billion is taken into account. With a calculation of the Brigel Institute that we will be tabling in the Minutes, it was only on 1 April 2020 that only 3.6% of our GDP or about 6.8 billion, when Germany was 47.8, Italy 43.9, Spain 12.4 and Belgium, which also has very large debts, 28.1. However, if you do not understand why Germany has abolished the Maastricht rules, you will never understand it. In detail now in the measures referred to by SYRIZA in relation to what the government has launched, I have to say: First of all, it lists the forecasts of the German aid programme Bundes Regelung Kleinbeihilfen 2020, which, after Germany's adoption, the European Union considered that it is not in breach of its regulations. As usual, Germany lays down the rules. Therefore, other countries can apply them if they have enough money like Germany. The programme provides little assistance to support enterprises affected by the Koroni crisis, while according to the European Union communication we will present in the Minutes, it includes five measures that SYRIZA rightly mentions, but it describes six. In particular, the sixth, which is included in the second, refers to the possibility of debt-sharing companies that we do not see anywhere in the European Union's measures. As far as the first, tax reductions are concerned, Greece was launched through a 25% reduction in taxes and contributions for the first four months. Also, 40% of the rent for business real estate was reduced for March, April and May, as were rents for workers affected. However, these are benefits with the money of others, when Italy reduced the rent by 60%, but with a state grant. The owners of the property will be compensated by the state later and only for 30% of their losses via HISBIA. This is an increase in the tax on rents of 38% or a confiscation which is of course not compatible with the free economy system. Continuing with the third, since the second does not exist, with the direct granting of state loans to companies with favourable interest rates, on the basis of the communication of 20 May, which can amount to EUR 2 billion from the Development Bank, reaching seven billion with leverage to the Minister. But who's really going to put that money in? No one has explained it to us. The last measure refers to guarantees for banks, despite the fact that they are backed by the Hercules programme with EUR 12 billion and the EUR 17 billion deferred tax that will be lost. This is also unacceptable, especially since they do not lend the real economy, not even with the 80% state-guaranteed loan, demanding cash for the remaining 20%. In the other measures mentioned by SYRIZA, support for the firms in difficulty is possible through the European Union Regulation that we will submit its contents in the Minutes since 2014. Did he really realize that now, since no support was found for troubled businesses in the years of his government? It is courageous that the party that has transferred the property of Greece to the superstition with the third memorial should refer to statifications. We agree here with the Minister, and of course we must mention that he sold DESFA, IPTOE at the 'FRAPORT' airports and much more. However, this is what Germany is doing through the 550 billion granted to the state development bank KfW for the acquisition of major businesses, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. In relation to the brave 'SURE' programme, as SYRIZA calls it, it is nothing but the German 'KURZARBEITE' programme in automotive industries, where the Germans are interested in maintaining know-how. What expertise do we have that we want to maintain with this programme? This is essentially the 'Cooperation' programme with a 20% reduction in wages, where it is a PPP in tourism with the State to cover 60% of the lost wage. What will be the cost to the public? There's nowhere. The European Central Bank has now recently given a special quantitative relaxation scheme, the PEPP, the possibility of supporting corporate bonds on the secondary market under conditions that would cover whether the companies had guaranteed bonds or were supported by appropriate state aid schemes. According to reports we will also be tabling, the Minutes were given out of this programme EUR 12 billion that was brought to banks and them. Here we would like to ask whether it is true. These are publications. To close, with regard to our country's problems, the only medicine is the development of the economy by changing the production model and creating wealth that, unfortunately, we do not see happening. Investments in tourism continue, as recently with the opening of three businesses again in the tourism sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u317	The Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr Claus Gregoriadis has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u318	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mercury25 does not intend to take part in the communication process that SYRIZA is attempting to set up with the Government and Mr.Adoni Georgiadis on the strengthening of winter public or indirect enterprises, such as LARCO, Elefsina and Scaramaga shipyards, the Greek Air Industry and PPC. Let's just remind you that SYRIZA, unfortunately, was the one who spent all the above companies in the superstition to be divested. After a decade of gradual and systematic loss of national sovereignty the Greek State, Mr Georgiadis, should, in the midst of a pandemic, assume the support of the social fabric and the protection of citizens and businesses from economic collapse. In order to meet his duty, the Greek State, Mr Georgiadis, should have prepared and implemented a programme of institutional interventions and departments that will enable him finally to regain the dominance of basic public institutions, which are necessary, as you know, in order to protect citizens and businesses. At a time when the worsening of the past recession is a catalyst of 15% of our national income, the Greek public, dear Mr Georgiadis, has an obligation to regain control of its institutional tools so that it can finally use them for the protection of citizens. We in Mera25 have a comprehensive proposal for a law on the protection of citizens against the effects of the growing economic crisis, which Yiannis Varoufakis has just presented as our secretary. The planned concessions to private individuals, the fair and effective institutional reforms of the tax mechanism, the national interest to manage private debts, the creation of a development bank, which will manage without, however, real estate as is currently the case, as well as the new system of financial transactions of private individuals, which we call PPPs, will benefit the Greek economy and the small and medium-sized society with: a) the prevention of debt through tax rings, contributions and loan donations; b) permanent in real time and unbiased without the human factor of algorithmic controls of tax evasion; c) the protection of the main residence and small and medium-sized enterprises that perfectly combine social justice with the resolution of banks and the stabilisation of the real estate market; d) the end of the scandalous divestment of our public assets by transferring public property to the new government, i.e., the public sector's public sector, and private sector's public sector's public sector. Dear SYRIZA colleagues, dear Mr Georgiadis, individuals are threatened with bankruptcy due to: (a) the high tax and instalment obligations that their declining income is no longer covered, which in the event of imminent bankruptcy is not easier by postponing taxes or famous advances (b) due to red loans and high borrowing rates (c) due to the high transaction costs and (d) due to zeros at this time of savings rates. On the other hand, the Greek State, in addition to the existing non-viable debt, is becoming more and more bankrupt because of: (a) the uncontrolled tax evasion (b) the high tax rates - see VAT, pre-paid corporate tax - which, as you all know, will ultimately be reduced overall tax revenues instead of increasing them; (c) due to the reduction of its future earnings due to bankruptcy; (c) the development that does not prevent, as you know, deferral from me; (d) deferrals of taxes, contributions and instalments because they will all come; (d) due to the mismanagement of public property which is either divested - for example, for example, Greek - or is deliberately devalued - see 'LARCO' and PPC - because of the recurring recapitalisations of private banks, which are still under the control of private individuals; (e) due to the forthcoming transfer of 12 billion euros to the Greek Treasuries, which will be managed by the Greek National Banks. Are we in times to borrow new loans? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In two minutes I will finish, like everyone else, Madam President. The aim of this proposal for a law - ours - is to treat each of the main reasons for deepening the bankruptcies of the private and public sectors through targeted institutional sectors. To achieve this, we propose the following areas: first, permanent and radical tax relief. Secondly, a permanent objective and impartial algorithm tax evasion control. Thirdly, transfer of red loans to a public management company, permanent protection of main residence and small and medium-sized enterprises, social control in the process of identifying strategic misappropriators. Fourthly, transferring the public property to a upgraded new development bank with a view to exploiting it and not to divest it. Fifthly, nationalisation of the already bankrupt banks that need new ones of our own, the people, the recapitalisation. Sixth, adoption of the new system for the financial transactions of individuals with the public sector. You'll get used to it! The protection of citizens from the economic effects of the pandemic, which further aggravates the existing ten-year material potential, at last requires the recovery of national and popular sovereignty over tax authorities, on the trading system, on the management of private debt, public property and financial institutions that now depend entirely on our public capital. Ladies and gentlemen, this comprehensive proposal for a law on the protection of citizens abolishes all existing subsistence institutions and establishes the new development institutions that are now required after the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Mr President. For ten minutes, the Deputy Minister for Development and Investment Mr Tsakiris has the floor. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, the Ministry of Development and Investment since the outbreak of the pandemic has developed and implemented a package of financial products and actions aimed at keeping businesses alive, providing them with the necessary liquidity. It is also noted that for these products, resources of the NRP have been used by achieving maximum leverage and without committing national resources, thus contributing to maintaining budgetary equilibrium. In particular, the aim of the financial instruments is, on the one hand, to offer a protection net to firms which already had loans and, on the other, to offer new working capital. In this context, on 15 April 2020, the possibility of a three-month interest subsidy for April, May and June of existing business loans from small and medium-sized enterprises already affected by the effects of the pandemic and a total budget of EUR 750 million was put into effect. This grant involved 100% payment of interest payable for all business information loans. And when we talk about up-to-date business loans, we refer to loans that had outstanding debts of less than 90 days on 31 December 2019. This practically means that an enterprise can be subject to this action, i.e. 100% interest on its loans, even if it had last paid at the end of September 2019. This is why it was also done for tourist businesses affected by the "THOMAS COOK" that was "dried" in that month. Here I note that today the decision to extend for a further two months this measure was sent to the National Printing Office. The State, i.e. comes and covers total interest on existing business loans for five months up to 31 August 2020. On the basis of data from 21 June, eighteen thousand three hundred twenty-one small and medium-sized enterprises with a total number of two hundred eighty-five thousand nine hundred ninety-two have been approved. And we expect others to join in. On 28 April 2020 and on the third financial product, the submissions of applications by small and medium-sized enterprises affected by the TPIX II pandemic of the Greek Development Bank started. The total budget for this action has increased by EUR 300 million, due to the high demand, resulting in loans, all allocated and approved by the Development Bank, and at the moment, they are contracted to disbursement by commercial banks, amounting to approximately EUR 2 billion. The new Subprogramme 3, as has been said, concerned with the granting of a working capital of up to EUR 500,000 and loans of five years with interest subsidy for the first two years by 100% and the next three to 40%, as well as the cofinancing by the NRP. The programme was completed, as I said, on 28 May 2020, and on 16 June the Greek Development Bank's assessment of applications was completed, involving a total of EUR 1,300,000,000, followed by the compatibility and disbursement of banks. I would like to make one comment here. The total demand for this product, from what we have seen in the State Aid Cumulation Programme, reached about 10 billion. Here I would like to say that there is enough noise in these applications, because several companies applied to all banks for the maximum amount. Therefore, the overall demand was significantly lower. On June 3, 2020, the COVID Business Guarantee Fund was put into effect again through the State Aid Saving Programme -19 through the Greek Development Bank again with the possibility, as we have also been approved by the Commission, to reach EUR 2.25 billion. It is noted that the action covers all enterprises and through this action the banks grant new loans, guaranteed by 80% of the amount of the loan, while this guarantee at bank portfolio level reaches 40% of the volume of business loans for small and medium-sized enterprises and 30% for large firms' loan portfolios, while the State also grants the guarantee. The leverage created leads to loans totalling EUR 7 billion and it should be noted that banks have committed themselves to credit expansion, new loans for 2020 of EUR 15 billion to EUR 16 billion. On the basis of data from 21 June, an overall of eighty thousand applications of a total budget of EUR 19 billion have been submitted. I would like to point out here that both for the Guarantee Fund and TEMPUS, refinancing or early repayments of old loans are prohibited. They are new loans, so as to prevent banks from being paid for an existing loan in order to provide the same guarantee. All the above actions, with the exception of TIPS II, which is an old programme, have been notified and approved by the European Commission, on the basis of the provisional framework, which allows an increased public funding ceiling of EUR 800,000. In fact, Greece was the first country to be adopted by the European Union on the basis of this provisional framework. However, you should be aware, ladies and gentlemen, that the Temporary Framework has made the undertakings covered by these actions not to be problematic at 31-12-2019. This European Union term, unfortunately, cannot be ignored. It is clear, therefore, that we have acted quickly in the midst of a pandemic and less than two months since this crisis broke out, that the Greek Government has designed and implemented bank loan guarantees in order to increase the liquidity of businesses immediately. As far as loans are concerned, I should like to point out here, as is your question, that you left the Greek Development Bank law, while you were able to change, the ban on direct credit to businesses. We also corrected this by No 4684/2020, but also by appropriate notifications to the European Commission. In addition to the actions referred to above, it should be noted that the remaining measures taken by the Greek Government have been paid out by means of applying this protection net to workers and businesses, such as the repayment of the Ministry of Finance, EUR 900 million, the special purpose compensation to self-employed and micro-enterprises, EUR 500 million. In addition, the sums of EUR 236 million should be added to this amount for the equipment of ICUs and hospitals. A total of EUR 3,5 billion was financed under the NSRP 2014-2020. I would like to point out here that this money comes from the public investment programme. Yes, but we haven't collected them yet. We'll put it down and collect it. So we also have to manage this issue financially. I would remind you that the recent public investment programme for 2020 has increased by EUR 1,25 billion and is now at EUR 8 billion in order to facilitate these increased funding needs and their increased implementation. Let us now come to the problematic businesses. On 12 June 2020, that is, a few days ago and with pressure from Greece and some other states, the European Commission announced that it was considering reforming this provisional framework with regard to the problems of small enterprises, namely companies as fifty employees. The Commission proposes - it has not been adopted - that small companies as fifty workers should come out of anticipation of the problem. On this proposal from the Commission, we have called for this limit to be increased to two hundred and fifty people. We still don't live there. Firstly, we are already working on a framework for restructuring firms in difficulty in Austria's banking patterns. Secondly, we will very quickly announce a fund through the Greek Development Bank and the granting of a guarantee to financial institutions in order to facilitate the granting of guarantee letters for the implementation of investment projects approved by the ESRB. Thirdly, we are planning a fund for the provision of greater liquidity to enterprises through the financing of invoices, the so-called trade budget. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Government has a coherent plan to strengthen it not only during the first phase of the consequences of the pandemic but also in the second phase, the rapid relaunch of economic activity. Believe me, this is a potential project, it constantly meets the challenges of the economy, along with the initiatives at European level that I have mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. We will move on to the honourable Members who have the right to secondary education. It's Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Pappas and Mrs. Pulou. Mr. Tsipras, I think you can speak from your seat. You only have five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Madam President. Let's start with GDP. It's not a tough number. Mr Bukouros said so, and the Prime Minister said so about ten days ago. You're talking about 0.7% average, 2015-2019. The hanged man's house doesn't talk about rope. How do we get it in 2010-2015, 2015-2019? Mid-weighted, cumulative? Whatever you want. If we get it in half-weight, we're really 0.7%. Actually, we're 0.8%. I'll give it to you. How much was 2010-2015? It was -4.4% medium. Do you want to see it cumulatively? We were +4,26%, you're -22.5% from 2010 to 2015. The hanged man's house doesn't talk about rope. That's the first. The second is that the Minister has come unprepared, obviously. All he had to say was that the debt was increased in the ODA. If he wants to see the cigarettes. For picking up the EAB and delivering it. But I don't live in it. He came unprepared because he didn't know the main issue. Mr Tsakiris continues to answer the questions which have answered the written question he has asked without entering into the substance of the case. Although the Minister was unprepared, the debate was useful because he told us clearly and clearly that this government is in trouble, as well as defining them, it is not strengthening. You said it very clearly. Let me explain what you first ignore. Let me explain exactly what you're saying. There are two different things. It is the provisional framework that has been shaped within a pandemic by the European Union, Mr Georgiadis. There is also the previous more stable framework, let's say, which was last updated by the 2014 guidelines. This is now being reviewed more favourably. This can last after the pandemic, that is, beyond the temporary. It's a simple thing, Mr. Georgiadis. It provides for State aid to firms in difficulty. He doesn't talk about any more. Only for firms in difficulty. You told us today that while all of Europe is strengthening state-owned firms in difficulty before the pandemic and much more within the pandemic, Greece will not do that. The Greek Government won't do that because we're throwing money into a well. I'll explain the very simple thing you should know. You're a Minister of Economy. A firm in difficulty may have the possibility if it receives aid, lending or whatever, to be able to come to its level, be profitable, be viable, pay back to a level or 100% of what it has received and stand on its feet. That was before the pandemic. Today we are at another stage where all the states in the euro area do not even do that. They're doing something beyond that. They are prepared for the Member States to give money to survive. To survive even if they don't make that money back later. You guys seem to be neither one, nor the other. So, first of all, I would like to explain to you that the problematic companies as a framework existed since 2014. Problematic companies and not non-problems. In the context of the pandemic, we have further relaxation of the framework of State aids and of problematic and non-problems. I'll only tell you one post you're not answering at all. Not even Mr. Tsakiris answered. The post is "KATHMERINI". It's not the paper SYRIZA. What does the post say? Title: 'Instrument receives guaranteed loans from small and medium-sized enterprises'. I'll tell you differently. All businesses that did not have access to the banking system until before the pandemic continue to have no access now. And that's not what you're answering at all. There are solutions. There is, for example, a 100% guaranteed loan. It has happened in the pandemic precisely because of the exceptional framework in other countries, such as Austria and Portugal, which requested and approved 100% guaranteed loans up to a limit of a few hundred million euros. I now come to the businesses themselves. You didn't answer anything at all. First of all, an American flag at the Eleusina shipyard is not going to enter. I'm telling you. As in other companies, other national flags have not been introduced. My question is why he hasn't moved on. The American flags have been heard since last summer. The investment hasn't moved on. Our question is first if you are committed to moving forward. Secondly, if it will go ahead with the same jobs as those that have been created, which touch 20 million euros. Thirdly, if for any reason, even if it is not your fault or your fault, the investment does not go ahead, if you commit that even with State aid or relocation will remain open, the result will be given and a sustainable future will be achieved. I am telling you - and I speak on the basis of knowledge - that the Elefsina shipyards have a sustainable future as much as the ODA has. And I told you that EAW today is undermining it while it has a clear, wonderful, development perspective. You're undermining her. It's a promise we didn't make.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u323	Mr. Comrade, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u324	I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u325	It's been half a minute already.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u326	I haven't gotten there yet. This, Mr Georgiadis, also applies to the rest. And for the big firms in difficulty. To a certain extent, not all of them. Much more for the ocean of small and mediumsized ones. What's that? That if we are to help the firms in difficulty first not to deviate, to be alive on the day after the pandemic, and secondly, if, on the basis of a business plan, a business plan notified and approved by the Commission, they may also be alive tomorrow, the big and small ones. And you're absolutely not taking any action with that. Problematic business you're not helping. We are sorry, but today the Greek people have understood what your plan is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u328	Madam President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u329	Mr Buquoir, I cannot give you the floor, and you know it very well. You know the Rules of Procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u330	This was the case for staff where they were not provided.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u331	There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u332	There's a distortion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u333	There isn't. The Minister's here and he'll answer. There's no distortion and you can't answer it and you know it. You've exhausted your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u334	As you think.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u335	Minister, do you want to talk now or then? One congressman is still to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u336	I'll answer later on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u337	Mrs Pulou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u338	Thank you very much, Madam President. It's our people who say that from little and insane, you're learning the truth. Today we learned truths and the Greek people learned them. Firstly, he learned that you have not submitted any requests for rescue and development to the European Commission for the competition of national, strategic companies. Secondly, the ODA employees have learned what you have in store for the forthcoming signature of their collective agreement. Thirdly, the workers, the workers, the miners, the suppliers of "LARCO" have learned that they expect nothing from your Government. Fourthly, the micro-enterprises have learned that if they are not healthy, they will not be rescued. Healthy before the pandemic, I mean. Your goal is to shut down. This Greek peculiarity of our economy bothers you, because you only serve the big private capital. Why are you celebrating, Minister? The results of this disastrous policy will unfortunately appear in October. It's macabre, but a new wave will justify your failure, because on fear you are investing the communication of your policy. Minister, less arrogance and arrogance are necessary. They never talk about rope in the hanger's house. What do I mean? You are working with the vouchers, with the twenty million, which you distribute with opaque to the media, with the "beammen", the "kombarians", with the overcalculations of the health material that you should have appreciated. How courageous, really, does one really need to have to mock the Greek people like you, Mr Minister, when you say gladly that we will get fat by three hundred pounds of imprisonment during the pandemic? Because you are proud to be a good businessman selling books, which are now in crisis, you really should consider seriously investing in weakness institutes. As for the "destructive" period of SYRIZA's governance, the opposite of ELSTAT's data on economic inequality, published just on Friday following the survey on family incomes and living conditions, proves. Study them. I don't think you'll find any arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, my fellow Member, for being very precise in your time. Mr. Tsakiris has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u340	Thank you. I would like to reply to Mr Tsipras on the issue of problems. The way you say it is. Since 2014 there has been the framework for problems, the old framework, which is not a TECE. It is only about private problems, so LARCO, EAB, etc. They do not fall within this framework. In the new context of state aid, which applies to the pandemic, the problem cannot go in unless one is notified. But again - I repeat - the CECEs are not coming in. The Commission does not accept that. If we go with either LARCO or PPC, they will obviously cut it off and that is why it has not been done. With the privately-owned ‘Aegean’ they could go, but yet, as the Minister said, ‘Aegean’ is not looking for aid. As I said before, and it is very important, there is a proposal from the Commission, with the pressure of several countries and Greece, that companies of up to fifty people be able to get into all these instruments and actions concerning pandemics. We hope that this will be adopted in the next few days, so all these financial instruments will also include these companies, if this is approved by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor. I hope you can help in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u342	I'll help you as long as I can. I don't promise.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u343	You will be able, Minister, because there has been a great deal of fuss before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u344	Because I have a weakness for you, I'll try. Mr. Tsipras, I'm going to show you a picture now, because I want you to understand a little bit that when someone's out of reality, he can appear in the Step and speak with great arrogantness and great confidence, but what he says is incredible nonsense, because reality disguises him. You said: 'Mr Georgiadis mentioned at Elefsina Shipyards and the US flag will enter into any investment that the American flag does not enter.' Isn't that what you said? I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm showing her. Here are the shipyards of Neorio Syros, the privatisation made by SYRIZA half. Do you see the flag that's next to the Greek? It's the American. You put her in Syros, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u345	On the day of the contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u346	I didn't tell you about harm.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u347	On the day of the contract, I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u348	I told you every 4th of July. I didn't tell you about harm. I told you for good. You brought the American flag to Syros and you will bring the American flag to Eleusina with us. It's not bad. I just want to explain that you are in a phase of personality division, because on the one hand you brought the American flag and the U.S. supertars, on the other hand, now you have remembered communism again. Now let's go to the object. Greece has gone through and paid extremely expensively a policy in the 1980s - which we all remember - in problematic business, that is, at the time when the public debt was erupted and all the effort of the Greek people were thrown away. That's what happened, Mr. Tsipras, if you don't know. Now let's go to the present time. What did I tell you and I hope you'll understand it sometime? The Greek people's money is sacred money, it's money coming from cut pensions - which you cut - is money coming from overtaxation, mainly from the taxes you put in. So when you have this money to manage, be very careful where you spend it. You may dream of ruffles. I dream of the restructuring of the Greek economy, that is to say that LARCO will also operate the shipyards, that all these businesses will work, but that they will be viable in time, not for a few months, and then that we will be back where we are today. That's our main difference. You say how we will find a way to waste the money of Greek taxpayers, I say how we will find the money of Greek taxpayers to get a place. So, with a sustainable resolution plan, there will be a place for the "LARCO" and the positions of the workers will be saved, and in a sustainable way, there will also be a sustainable way of doing this at the shipyard and not as you want to be able to score money in the wind because you have supposedly found an opportunity now with COVID. I must respond to two more arguments you have put forward. Business One: To compare - says - and to sum up the 2010-2015 period and how retardative this period and the 2015-2019 period is to show - it says - that SYRIZA went much better. Excuse me, Mr. George Tsipras, but this is the classic poaching, which your cousin Mr. Tsipras is constantly doing, but the Greek people got him news quickly. When you say to sum up the period 2010-2015, you sum up the period of the government of Giorgos Papandreou and the period of government of Antonis Samaras with the intermediate short period of the government of Luke Papademos. That's what you sum up. If you sum up these two periods, you will find that the first period of the Papandreou government had 20% to 25% recession...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u349	No, he didn't have 25%. You will take the Papandreou period...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u350	How much did it have?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u351	From Papademos until 2015 that you delivered...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u352	He didn't even have 4% recession.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u353	Ladies and gentlemen, let the Minister speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u354	Greece had already returned to a positive growth rate in 2014. Take note, however, that your political smuggling is even worse for this reason, Mr. Tsipras: You are loading us as a remission of our responsibility throughout the period of George Papandreou, when the half cabinet of George Papandreou is in SYRIZA. So I'm responsible for the remission of the Ragonist government, I'm responsible for the recession of the Jacquez government, I'm responsible for the recession of the Kurubli government, I'm responsible for the recession of the period or Spirtzi, I'm responsible for the recession of the period - what's his name? - Chocolate, I'm responsible for the remission of the Xinogiannakopoulou period? Don't take one of them, one of them, it'll take us by morning. So you took the entire cabinet, ruled with the recession in -20, and you want to load it to us! Well, aren't you ashamed? The whole period of George Papandreou belongs to you. Why do you own it? Because after you wanted to take all his cabinet, sir, you'll get it with his damage, not just his benefits. So go out and explain to the Greek people what you were calling at the same time in the Constitution "Outside Papandreou, down the memorandum, germans" and then you made all the ministers of Papandreou and then we talk about it again. And I repeat something I said before and you probably did not hear it. Today Mr. Dimitris Kaburakis reminded us of an amazing story. For one and a half years he could not go to Chania, because the taxis in Chania had hanged a banner that said: "Outside Kamburakis from Chania that supports the Memorandum Ragosi Act". And you have taken your Member Ragosi and it was the Kamburakis' fault! That's the way you are. I'll be right back, Madam President. The Greek Government has used - and I am very proud of this - in the most effective way the very few resources that the Greek taxpayer has and which we use in a way that shows respect for the work, sweat and his taxes. So far - I say this because nobody knows the development of the pandemic in the next few months on the planet, I hope that it is good - and in the economy evolution in Greece is always good in relation to what our other neighbours are going through, the rest of the eurozone and the rest of the Western world. The Greek economy can still stand and if we continue with the same discipline, with the same labour force and with the same patience as quickly the Greek economy will overcome the deep recession that will come 2020 due to this great calamity. And I've explained to you seventy times about the issue you keep saying that the recession started at the end of 2019 and continues at the beginning of 2020. There's no point in controversy. Because you'll say syrrhages, I'll say New Democracy's things, my voters will say that Adonish says well, your people will say that George says well. That doesn't matter. In the economy, there's a higher judge than us, and that's who's telling the truth and who's lying. It's the markets, the people who don't vote, but they put their money. And the markets in February 2020 had dropped the loan rate of the ten-year Greek bond below 1%. Do you think Mr. George Tsipras would want the markets to do the favor to Mitsotakis, losing billions? Come on, get serious! The markets had decided that the Greek economy was going very well, so interest rates fell. COVID came - as it came for others - but again, mutatis mutandis, the Greek economy is better off. And I want to say that with hard work, with determination and responsibility, and with less SYRIZA Greece will be very good in 2020! Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u355	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u356	Madam President, in the absence of our parliamentary representative, can I have the floor for half a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u357	You don't have the right, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u358	I want to clarify for ten seconds...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u359	You do not have the right, the procedure is closed, Mr Colleague, because I was asked by my colleague, and I did not give the floor to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u360	For the CPOs, it's inaccurate...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u361	I can't make exceptions for anyone. Please don't embarrass me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u362	I want...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u363	Please very much, Minister. The debate is over, gentlemen! Gentlemen, the debate is over! Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on Question No 20/10/4-5-2020 is closed, on the subject of 'Aid for Enterprises. Exploiting new possibilities.’ Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-22-S1-commons.u364	With the consent of this House at 23: 24, the sitting is closed for Wednesday 24 June 2020 at 9 a.m. on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
