ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas and Members of his party's parliamentary group, Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas, will be discussed. Alexandras Papagiga, Ioannis Giokas, Ioannis Deli, Lianas Kanellis, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulou, Christos Katsotis, Maria Konnakas, George Lambroulis, Diamonds Manolakos, George Marinos, Nikolaos Papastasis, Athanasios Pafilis, Leonidas Stoltides and Emmanuel Co-operation with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "To protect the incomes of workers, increase the basic salary, reinstate the TSEs." As usual, in spite of the Rules of Procedure - and I say this to colleagues other than Mr Katsotis who is the rapporteur-general and, of course, Mr Koutsoubas, if he wants to speak - the other Members, if they want to, can unite the second language with their protology so that they have more time to develop the issue. Mr Katsotis as first questions will certainly have a second and he has plenty of time. So we can start with Mr Katsotis. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The JRC has tabled the question on the protection of the incomes of workers - people's families, which has been crushed by policies of all governments over the last ten years and has deteriorated even further than the class management of the pandemic that revealed the barbarity of your policy. All the measures you have taken have been adapted to the requirement of the functioning of the capitalist economy and not the health of the people, with the adaptation of the health protocols according to the suggestions of business groups. You rejected the JRC's proposals to re-establish the private health sector, to recruit the necessary medical and nursing personnel, to create the necessary intensive care units, to reopen any hospitals and health establishments you closed the previous period. The reduced expenditure and the EUR 600 million of the draft state health budget reveals the commitment to the political depreciation of the public system to strengthen the private health sector. The consequences of the classic management of the pandemic are heavy, lethal for the people, with an increase in cases, intacts and deaths. You took advantage of the pandemic as an opportunity to implement every claim of business and monopoly groups. Your rival - anti-grass work didn't stop. On the pretext of the extraordinary situation, with a number of legislative acts and bills, you further overturned income and what the working right had remained on the argument of sharing the consequences. You've relied on thousands of redundancies. Workers, the unemployed, the self-employed paid so as not to reduce the unsatisfactory profits of business groups. With the programmes that you have implemented, you have exempted them from paying wages, suspending workers' contracts and with the special purpose allowance of EUR 534 you have attempted to present a proleaman. The suspension of contracts of employment and the 'Cooperation - WORK' programme, specialising in the 'SURE' programme of the European Union, were the tools for overthrowing stable work and reducing wages by over 20%. Enterprises have the possibility of applying all forms, suspension, 'COMPANY WORK', teleworking for workers. Business groups ensure with them all subsidised wages and insurance contributions by increasing their profits. You announced a bill that comes to implement the most comprehensive demands of capital for the abolition of any protective measures that are in the way of increasing the exploitation of workers. They want the worker to be even cheaper and to produce greater added value, with the abolition of fixed work, the eighth hour, the weekend, the five-hour introduction, the abolition of overtime pay. The business groups demand the immunization of their uninterrupted action, and the government has announced a reduction and abolition of democratic and trade union freedoms that have been conquered by hard and bloody struggles. It strengthens repression to face up to the challenging struggles of the working class and the people. The so-called temporary measures of the memoranda that have reached income, labour and insurance rights, the measures to deal with the consequences of the pandemic are reflected in the report by the Pissaridis Commission, which the Government applies and calls on the other forces meeting in the single strategy of the capitalist economy to support. This report reflects all the needs of the monopolistic and multinational groups, which are satisfied with the lives of the workers and the people. The JRC for the protection of workers' income has tabled proposals for legislation, amendments rejected by the current Government of New Democracy, as has the previous SYRIZA. We recall the proposal for a law of five hundred and thirty federations, labour centres and unions, workers to reintroduce the minimum wage to EUR 751, collective labour agreements, a series of arrangements to support them, the proposal for a law to relieve the people's households of debts created by the loss of their jobs and the reduction of income, the recent three amendments to subsidise all the unemployed to EUR 600, the reintroduction of the third and fourteenth wages and pensions and the payment of the Christmas gift for the workers who are in the 'CON-WORK' programme and the suspension, on the basis of the wages paid for the collective labour contract. The minimum wage from a protection net turned him into an accelerator for reducing wages downwards. You voted and permanentised the law that abolishes the negotiation of workers - employers for the minimum wage, as was the case from the post-war period until 2012. The Minister, with the suggestion of employers' representatives and on the basis of ensuring increased profitability, will shape the minimum wage. You have formulated a framework that abolishes the institution of collective agreements and the tools of business groups, the associations of persons, the wages of employees of many companies have fallen to lower wage levels. There was no lack of effort to go downwards, with a contract that provided for EUR 500 and cancelled it under the general outcry of the workers. It is characteristic that in 2012, after the Ministerial Act of 6-12, the collective labour agreements signed by the large majority by the associations of persons, according to a study by the OMD, were extended to ninety-sevenths-six in 2012, with 70.5% providing for reductions in remuneration for the minimum wage, the one you voted for, of course, at 586 euros. Operational collective agreements signed by associations of persons, according to the same study of the OMEI, are the main mechanism to reduce remuneration at the level of the national collective labour agreement. 65.4% of the operational collective agreements with an association of persons contain wage reduction arrangements at lower wage levels, compared with 3.5% of the operational collective agreements with an operational association. That is why you support the associations of people. On the other hand, 33.5% of operational collective agreements concluded by an operational association kept the wages of workers stable compared to only 1% of the operational collective agreements signed with an association of persons. This evidence reveals the Government's objective of strengthening the associations of persons created by employers to reduce the average earnings at lower levels. You have turned the country into a special economic area with low wages and flexible forms of employment, a ban on trade activity, and on the other hand, full immunity to capital with tax exemptions, incentives, tolerance and support for inconsistent action. By exploiting every mechanism and organisation, such as the OAED and the various employment programmes, the State has taken the lead in implementing the capital claim to reduce the price of the labour force. These programmes legitimised wages under both collective wages and even under the minimum wage, such as the 200 euro-pay programme per month. At the time of the pandemic, while you gave the wages and all other rights, you are, on the contrary, strengthening the business groups with each financial instrument. The case of workers at the airport with flexible working relationships, with an undetermined working time, paid with a minimum income and during the pandemic period, was the suspension and cooperation with a deterioration of their position, while the airline was financed with EUR 120 million. The JRC, with the question, supports workers' claims and requires the abolition of the anti-government Law 4172/2013, whereby the minimum wage is regulated by a ministerial decision and the increase by a minimum wage of EUR 751 and the reintroduction of collective bargaining for the national general collective labour agreement. Also, the reintroduction of the thirteenth and fourteenth wages in the public sector and the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions. It calls for measures to oblige employers to pay their employees' wages and insurance funds on time to stop unpaid work, which has been dispersed. He's claiming wage increases, pensions, social benefits. It requires that the Christmas gift is not cut off, that all workers be given the Easter gift and the license. It calls for measures to protect all unemployed persons with unemployment benefits to 80% of the minimum wage, without conditions and conditions. It calls for an increase in the individual tax-free limit from today's tax-free levels, where tax-payers and those who have a unique income at the current basic salary of EUR 650. The JRC will take the lead in organising the struggle of workers and the people, in order to protect health, life and rights and to proclaim modern needs. Questions are waiting for an answer, but above all they are directed at the working class to claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u3	The President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas, will now be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. It is no exaggeration to say that the situation in the workplace looks like a minefield. Workers are trying to balance, trying to protect themselves, their families, but also to disguise the employer's arbitraryness that has really unleashed, using the tools you have given it. Other workers must live with reduced wages, others with 'fly', others with no income at all. The Group of the European People's Party with its topical question highlights precisely this crucial issue of protecting the incomes of working families, which has, of course, been busted over the last ten years by all governments and even more in the last few months of the pandemic. What are you doing? You say your priority is the health of the people. However, all the measures you have taken show that your priority is another, so you also adapt the health protocols to the business groups suggestions. You're standing across the street. You have adopted proposals for health, workers, the specific zoonotic proposals of the JRC for the real demand of the private health sector, for the recruitment of the necessary medical and nursing staff, for the creation of the necessary ICUs, for the reopening of hospitals that you have closed and that SYRIZA, during his administration, has also left closed. Only the dramatic situation in the hospitals in northern Greece to see, one understands very well what has happened. We will not get tired of talking about self-evidently, about what now needs to be done in the public health system, such as the permanentisation of the four thousand OAED workers, who have been working lately for four years in hospitals, within health structures, across the whole range of health. You don't even do that. Do it, even now. This appeal is made by the workers who have recently visited me and made their fair demands. The reduced spending on health in the draft state budget reveals how and how the world, there, burned into the policy of decommissioning the public system to strengthen some large private health. You refused to take steps to deactivate the public transport sanitary bomb. You refused to carry out checks at workplaces, at factories, where workers denounce that apart from refusing a special licence, the big-time workers are forced to work with symptoms, hide cases, refuse tracing. If you and SYRIZA too want to talk about transparency in the workplace, there is the greatest lack of transparency here. The tragic consequences of your policy are reflected daily in the number of cases, intact, deaths. In these difficult conditions for the people you have found the opportunity to speed up your anti-grass work. You saw the pandemic as a golden opportunity to carry out every claim of business groups to impose implicitly only on the workers, on the Greek people. You want to go through reactive, anti-reactive measures in these unprecedented conditions for the people without any resistance. You want the people to see criminal responsibilities in dealing with pandemic, but not complain, not speak. That's why you're smiling every reactionary and irrational racist voice. That's why you dug up this whole fascist club in some media that's lost and every sense of measure. That is why your "pads" are invoking you to the workers, their clubs for their struggles with that bad argument that now is not the time to fight, it is not the time for strikes. It is for this reason that political parties, representatives of Parliament, are being abdicated that they do not have the right to appeal to the government, to the Ministers and to seek the lifting of injustices, persecutions and prohibitions which they value and not all those of the 'falcons' to you. Indeed, they say that this is also an intervention - it says - in the spectacular work of the police, much more so, the repressive mechanisms of the 'DRAG' and put them in. That is why they are not talking about the co-existence of six thousand police officers with dozens of active cases among them, who have undeterredly thrown on protesters - it is your responsibility - who have revered all the suggestions of doctors, masks and distances. However, we have dealt with several months now with the political nonsense of your right-wing parrots, which you, of course, have caused them, although you should, above all, deal with other issues more seriously. Really, what exactly are you waiting for? That you will continue with the emergency situation and the number of acts of legislative content, also reactive legislations to constantly break incomes and what the workright has left without anyone talking about? That you'd support thousands of redundancies, like you do months now, and you won't move a leaf? Because all this is, unfortunately, happening. The workers, the unemployed, the self-employed micro-enterprises, the professionals pay all the broken ones, and the large business groups have not paid a single euro, and they support themselves wholeheartedly so as not to threaten their profits. With the programmes that you have implemented, you have exempted them from paying wages by suspending workers' contracts of employment. In fact, you have the courage to present the EUR 534 special-purpose allowance as a supposedly huge charity measure. With tools to suspend contracts of employment and the ENVIRONMENTAL programme in the European Union's 'SURE' programme, you have gone ahead with overthrowing fixed work and lowering wages by over 20%. By legislating even EUR 200 as a monthly salary for employees in the subsidised work programme, you turn long-term unemployed into literally free work. At the same time, you are subsidising businesses with EUR 345 million, without having to give them one euro over this EUR 200. The anti-radiator catapult doesn't end. You already have on the stools the legality of the tenth working day, instead of eight hours, the ban on the strike, the new hits on Sunday holidays, but also other additional measures that lead to a further reduction in wages. You have already made progress in the generalization of teleworking which has lost the limits between working time and leisure time, intensified work, substantially increases working time, health and safety conditions are being loaded on the worker himself. Do you already want workers and especially young people to celebrate this mess? Along with all this, you are advertising the famous Pissaridis project, which is provokingly saying that it is a plan of experts and should not be the subject of party controversy. You have good politicians responsible for the state of the country's economy, for the situation of the workers, such as the unfamiliar memory of the former PASOK, now a Change Movement, I don't know, or an undetermined rather political party position, but a stable defender of pluralism and business - the vulcanizer - against farmers, as we remember, or a demonstration by the Minister again Chrysochoid. So, what are you telling us? That the attack on insurance will deepen, that the attack on labour rights is escalating, that there will be a further reduction in the pay of overtime which reinforces the possibility of companies being made redundant, that unemployment benefits will be abolished, and that we will not reveal to you all of this, and that your technocrats will not be displeased. You are giving new legal weapons to the employer so that it can impose when it wants two extra hours of work, which workers will be forced to work, without even being paid for them. Is that your modernisation? To turn back almost two centuries, when workers worked with zero protection, sun and then demanded a reduction in the working day in eight hours, which they finally did? That's where you want us to go back. The modernization that you are going through is the measures that cancel the collective, living procedures, the fertile creative conversations within the workplaces of the workers. You are effectively abolishing the general conventions of the trade unions. Is the trade unions' file modernised through e-registers? The design of alteration of antiquities is already revealed. Just a week ago a worker was asked to vote in a club, in a branch and in a town with which he had absolutely nothing to do with it. You are swinging the finger for democratic, unadulterated so-called procedures and a ruthless labour movement. You first and best want his manipulation. You want to check it out, send anyone you want, where you want to vote. You're creating voters - ghosts. That is why you have imposed the leadership of an illegitimate GFCM that is absolutely discredited by the workers and in practice not only plays absolutely no role in their struggles, but also undermines them. Even voters of the ruling, your party knows that. In particular, do not dare to bring in the bill you announced for conversion into a specific offence of the collective trade union activity of the working people's movement. You know very well that such laws are not actually called laws. They're just ragged papers made, written, hand-written dirty, dug in the blood of workers and people who are resisting not only now, but for the last hundred and fifty years who have conquered them. You yourself are the ones who, in the name of modernisation, rejected the JRC's amendment to strengthen all unemployed without conditions and conditions, an amendment that gave breath to at least thousands of unemployed people, to their families today, here and now and not to the Monday Presence. Even the things you have announced for the unemployed, in order to materially contain the labour income from the curse, are neither aid nor gifts, as your various "pads" say. For the vast majority of unemployed are excluded from all kinds of benefits and aid. Tell us, so much does it cost you to give all the unemployed an exceptional grant of EUR 600, as proposed by the JRC? What's gonna happen? Is the state budget going to fall out? Are we going to go bankrupt? Or are you afraid of giving any more money and accusing you of Soviet? Not that it's measurable, of course, that's an equal price that cares you, no matter how much you don't understand, stuck in these anti-communist complexes and your souls. It's just another ideological nonsense and that in so many ways you're being recruited by the embarrassment, by your inability to find arguments of the pretext. Really, what do you think the unemployed will do with 600 euros? Are they going to Baden - Baden? No hole will be closed, the current will be paid so that they won't be cut off, even though they can, and their children do an hour of tele-education. A little bit of oil can put on to keep them from freezing, go shopping something for the Christmas table. Mercy! Of course, they have no appetite for jokes and for humor, such as those diplomats - I don't know if you remembered it through a recent Fontini Tomai article, where two diplomats - let me a little bit of the time - who had the same little name and surname, Raphael Rafael and Friends, sent to the then Minister of Foreign Affairs, Averov, a letter - homormist, of course - and they said 'Rafael Rafael and Friends' Licences, to go family to Baden - Baden'. Mercy! Nor for humor, of course, can I just remind you of it so that everyone does not wonder what this Baden-Baden is and where it has been known. Instead of measures to relieve the people's layers, you are constantly bringing in new rescue packages for groups, as happened with a group of air carriers. The JRC for the protection of workers' income has tabled proposals for legislation in particular. It has tabled amendments rejected by the current Government of New Democracy, as has the previous government of SYRIZA. We remind ourselves of the proposal for a law of five hundred and thirty federations of labour centres and unions to restore the minimum wage to EUR 751, collective labour contracts, with a series of arrangements to support the unemployed. We remind you of the proposal for a law to relieve the people's households of debts created by the loss of their jobs and reduce their income, our recent three amendments to subsidize all the unemployed with EUR 600, the reintroduction of the third and fourth wages and pensions, the payment of the full gift of the Christmas workers who are in the 'CONTRIAL AND WORK' programme and the suspension. And today, with this timely question of our parliamentary group, we support the demands of our workers and we demand the abolition of the anti-government law, of Law No 4172/2013, with which the minimum wage is regulated by ministerial decision, the increase by law of the minimum wage to EUR 751, the reintroduction of collective bargaining for the national general collective labour agreement, the reintroduction of the thirteenth and fourteenth wages to the public and the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions, which are working, the money of the workers themselves, the pensioners themselves. We call for measures to be imposed on employers to pay the wages of workers and the insurance funds on time to stop unpaid work, and for real wage increases, pensions and social benefits to be given. We demand that the Christmas gift is not cut off, that all workers be given the Easter gift and the license. We call for measures to protect all the unemployed, with an unemployment benefit of 80% of the minimum wage, without conditions or conditions, an increase in the individual tax rate from the current tax rates, where taxes are levied and those who have a unique income at the present basic salary of EUR 650. Because for us modernisation is not the workers going back to the Middle Ages, but moving forward, enjoying modern rights, what they can today on the basis of the achievements of science and technology. And in this struggle we will be ahead, unresolved, everywhere and in the House and outside of it, in the workplaces of work, education, health, housing, on the streets of the day-to-day struggle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u5	The second question, Mr George Marinos, has the floor. Do you want the time of your dentistry, Mr. Marino?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u6	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u7	Good. Here, you have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u8	The question put by the Communist Party of Greece on the protection of workers' income expresses the suffering, the distress experienced daily by hundreds of thousands of working families, the unemployed and the underemployed, the workers who were suspended, those who cannot live or get along with low wages and pensions, all those who are stricken by the terrible working conditions, employers' terrorism, capitalist exploitation. The JRC's question reveals the classic nature of the anti-Fraud policy of the New Democracy Government and the enormous responsibilities of PASOK and SYRIZA, highlights the heavy consequences of the strategy that loads the capitalist crisis and pandemic on the backs of the working class and the populaces, in order to enrich the big capital. Whatever the government claims, Mr Brutsi, whatever means of deception it uses, it cannot hide that the labour problems are exacerbated and daily increased the victims of your anti-popular policy. The conclusion is undeniable: the situation of the working class is worse, which produces wealth and concentrates more wealth in the hands of the exploiters. That's exactly the capitalism you worship. We're talking about a tragic situation. The vast majority of workers work without sectoral conventions, which are undermined and abolished, as recently became the seafarers of the seaships. The reality is painful. One out of five employees has a wage of less than EUR 500 mixed. One out of three receives a gross salary of up to 700 euros. In other words, the income of 35% and over employees is moving under or around the minimum wage for poverty. Six out of ten workers work in flexible forms of employment. How can these people live in these conditions? How to live with tax payroll, high direct and indirect taxation, with ENPY? Pensioners cannot live up to EUR 500 to 700 - the majority - and without the thirteenth or tenth pension, with which some holes have been taken. You are condemning the unemployed to unhappiness. One million registered unemployed in the OAED receives the allowance only 13%. This is your policy and not your front window, Mr Brutsi. All bourgeois governments, liberals or social democrats are consistently serving this exploitive system, the growth that has been made by businessmen's profits, and are burdening the consequences of the capitalist crisis in the working class and in the populace. That's what SYRIZA did before, that's what New Democracy is doing today. In the 21st century, with huge achievements of science and technology, with high productivity of labour, the working class, the populace and their children suffer, they lack basic means of life, and the anti-grass policy of all urban governments sends people needs to unclaimed. In calling for wage increases, a reduction in working time and human working conditions, the government responds with the abolition of eight hours, an increase in working time at ten hours, with unpaid overtime, a reduction in trade union activity and repression. Male and skeptical responders, taking advantage of the pandemic, illusion that it will impose cemetery silence to pass this abortion. But she will break her face again, as she has broken it in the recent populist movement at the Polytechnic University and the successful totalitarian strike on November 26th. We warn: Don't dare bring this monstrosity. The government, like the previous ones, refuses to hire permanent doctors and nurses to set up intensive care facilities. It refuses a real private sector qualification to join the state plan, and continues to feed the clinical leaders. It sacrifices the health and life of our people in the name of the endurance of the economy, and at the same time, it burns down, because it distributes generously billions to entrepreneurs to increase their profits further. In pandemic conditions it reduces state health budget resources by EUR 600 million, gives EUR 4 billion for the needs of NATO's murder mechanism and refuses to pay the unemployed. Labour struggles, slandered by the urban propaganda mechanism and undermined by the employers' government union, are the hope of the working class and the populace. The Communist Party of Greece is with them at the forefront of the struggle to abolish the exploitation of human beings and to build a society in which the lives of the people do not define the profits of the few, but the people's needs. The immediate fulfilment of the employees' demands is a matter of life and death: Reintroducing collective bargaining for the National General Association of Labour and increasing the minimum wage to EUR 751. Total increase in wages and pensions. A third and fourteenth wages for workers and a thirteenth and fourteenth pensions for pensioners. Unemployment benefit at 80% minimum wage for all unemployed, without conditions and conditions. Dismantling of tax measures and increasing the tax-free threshold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to you in the House on Monday, 7 December 2020: A. Current Questions to the First Cycle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 195/23-11-2020 topical question of the New Democracy MP Mr. Vasiliou Yoyakas to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Annulment of the branch of the National Bank in the Philistines Thesprotia'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 203/27-11-2020 topical question by MP Rodopi of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Dimitrios (Takis) Haritou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Would you protect the households from the power cut imposed by PPC and other providers in the midst of pandemic?" 3. The question under number 200/26-11-2020 of the Member of the Drama of the Change Movement Mr.Charulas (Haras) Kefalidou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The situation in the General Hospital of Drama because of the pandemic has become a reality." 4. The 196/24-11-2020 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The Members of PhD and Research Personnel (PCI) of the University of Western Attica". 5. The Question No 199/25-11-2020 by H' Vice-President of Parliament and MP B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Definition of an Integrated Development Area for Aquaculture (PDO) in the Municipality of Xeromeros Atolokarna'. B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 202/27-11-2020 topical question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "More than ever the final solution to the issue of the four thousand OAED workers, as well as all contractors and assistants of all specialties in the NSH - a permanent solution, permanent working relations in the National Health System (NSH)". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 215/30-11-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Scratch of agony by businesses, professionals, farmers and workers". 3. The Question No 211/30-11-2020 by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The closure of bank shops". 4. The 207/30-11-2020 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The Single Special Professional Peristeri asks for help against the coronary". 5. The 212/30-11-2020 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Department of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Dimitrios Vitsa to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The silence of the government in the matter of workers of Greek Shipyards S.A. (GENA)’. 6. The 208/30-11-2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "9 feminists and family Hunter: Antidemocratic government catastrophe and state violence". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 213/30-11-2020 topical question by SYRIZA MP Rethymnon - Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The need for convincing answers to reports that affect the credibility of decisions by a scientific community and state." 8. The Question No 218/30-11-2020 by MP B2' Western Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Criminally the coronary controller algorithm at the entrance gates". 9. The 217/30-11-2020 topical question by MP 2 West Attica of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Georgios Tsipras to the Minister of Civil Protection, on "Questions about the EVA algorithm used in the opening of the country to tourism". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 389/12-10-2020 of the SYRIZA Deputy Prime Minister's question - Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos Barkas to the Minister of Finance, on "Eligibility of expenditure from the Recovery Fund for the construction of public health structures". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 569/15-10-2020 asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘Greek Defence Systems (ESA)’. 3. The question asked by SYRIZA's MEP - a Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "The Government has also decided to privatise water management and the loss of property of OTAs". 4. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Application of the new objective values in the calculation of the special arbitrary fine". 5. The question asked by MP Pella of SYRIZA under No 39/5-10-2020 - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodoras Jakris to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The need for a special local action plan for the institutional armouring and strengthening of the Pelas IP, which presents in a single day 25% of the coronary cases of the whole country." It is called in Vima, the third question, Mr Leonidas Stoltides. Mr. Stoltides, will you take the time of your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u10	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u11	Good. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, from a description of the facts and facts presented in the question of the Communist Party, one can easily conclude that an entire structure has been set up, starting with the European Union's directorate, the governments in our country, local administration, business groups, the entire army of officials who are incapable of doing nothing but planning how to rob the labour force more effectively. And it's very reasonable, we say, since inside it and nowhere else lies the only source of wealth. All the rest, plans, bills are procedures for who will put it better in hand and turn it into profit. This can result as far as possible - in other words, a profit - by exploiting the labour force on a 24-hour basis, without obstacles and with the lowest possible remuneration. This is the limit you want to achieve for the capital and fight for so many decades PASOK, SYRIZA, New Democracy with one bill of robbery of the price of labour force to follow the next. You have all worked along with the abolition of collective agreements, the arrangement of working time as a whole. However, in order to put a bourgeoisie on stable work, to frame collective labour contracts, even this lousy minimum wage, to crush labour costs were flexible forms of work. Two hours, four hours, six hours, fixed-time contracts, hour pay, tangles are one of the most emblematic. And you do not apply them with the aim of reducing working time due to the evacuation of labour productivity, as is reasonable nowadays, and that is how it should be done. Out of your way! You apply them to hide and be able to apply the most rageous working conditions, the most horrendous forms of exploitation, the most heavy hit on the labour income. Behind these two hours, four hours, exodus, there are endless unpaid extra hours of work, uninsured black work, intensified extortion by redundancies, blackmails that are generalized for the return of the gift by contractors and not just. You are generalizing the flexible forms of work in privatised or privatised enterprises, but also in all others, for redundancies for full-time and stable workers, as well as their exploitation for hitting and retreating operational and earlier sectoral contracts. They are widely exploited in public and municipal services, creating armies of workers to the limits of absolute impoverishment and services - cleanliness, technical work, health system - dangerously degraded. The offer of all of you to this nightmare, which you loaded in their lives two out of three workers now and based on official evidence, was great. One out of five employees worked in flexible forms of employment in 2018 from one to ten in 2013. In other words, flexibility has doubled in five years. Six out of ten young workers work in flexible forms. Nine months of January - November 2019 in new employment contracts only 45.3% was full-time, many of which a certain period of time, 42.48% partial, 12.22% rotating work. Your planning - and it must be known that the workers must know to take things directly into their hands - provides for the elimination of fixed daily time, collective labour contracts for all. And you have found a wicked opportunity in the middle of a pandemic to make a big leap in this direction, while our people are struggling to save their health and life, because you convert hospitals and health systems into merchandise for a few, in feeding and subsidies to hotel owners, airlines and clerks. Yeah, right now, and backwards, you go and load more work with unpaid overtime to the already busted and exhausted workers. Take advantage, on the other hand, of teleworking, the temporary pioneer - as you have sold it - of a technological achievement, which has been transformed into a tool for altering their working time, a tool for intensification, dismantling their personal and family life, and a whole attack on their income, life - elastic, but a new source of profit for employers. That is not what BSE, businessmen and bankers have been asking for, as a matter of urgency in recent years. New Democracy did so by legislative acts and by not losing SYRIZA the opportunity to give your common bosses, too, the credentials. He therefore proposed a package of measures to monitor the implementation of teleworking by the 'ERGAN', which he also depreciated as a government, yes to cameras at home, but on preconditions and profits - he says - from his application for workers to swallow it undevoted. Didn't SYRIZA call that even the applications used for teleworking are preparing the teleworker's gaze for whether this is distracted from the screen at the time of work? And what does he propose to that? The "ERGANI" check? They are many benefits to the employer, they are a trick to the worker's life. More flexibility in working hours, more work-time expansion, 24-hour working hours available, 24-hour reduced operating costs, intensification at the same time, more work with the same wage, but in total less. Vacation job, job when you're sick, work on the take-off, work with the kids on your hands and load and on top of all the Employees' responsibilities, purchase good and fast computer, get brain and tensions, just don't worry about them. Remember with the good day of application the death of the twenty-seven-year-old in the telecommunications group in Thessaloniki from the home, who did not have time to save her. So, on the other hand, you will not be able to communicate with your colleagues, discuss the problems, you will not be able to organise and claim anything and fine! Family, social, free time, personal life, personal data, all lost. All profit in the pockets of those who produce nothing. You're laughed, employers and civilian staff, if you think you'll be able to alienate the workers, isolate each other. Nothing can interfere with the need for workers to work with modern rights. Nothing will prevent the pioneer fighters, the unions continue to do everything they can to get in touch with the workers, to inform them, to organize the struggle of the movement. One is the conclusion that the workers must come to an immediate conclusion: this system you are serving has nothing else to feed but the labour force. But this one, for your bad luck, is their own property. And we say that as long as they leave it in the hands of those who turn it into profit, whatever it produces will turn against it. It will rot their own lives as well as their children. However, what it produces today is more than capable of solving all its problems and meeting all its modern needs and has no reason to wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u13	The fourth question, Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, has now been answered for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u14	In the dramatic reduction in labour income from the reduction of the minimum and average wage for unemployment benefits, the substantial abolition of collective agreements, the degrading wages of EUR 200 that you promote and cannot live a human being and many others described in the JRC's question, are implemented by the Labour Force Agency on behalf of the anti-popular, anti-government policy of all governments. OAED is your tool to enhance the trend of relative and absolute impoverishment, increasing exploitation. This is what the bourgeois state officially does, which is also the largest exploiter of work, and of course it legislates what the capital needs and what the OAED is doing with it. It is no coincidence that many trade union mobilisations, competition committees, workers and collective bodies are being held outside the OAED, since it is considered a store of co-operativeism and its programmes are being cut off and sewed into business measures rather than workers. Moreover, the restructuring of the OAED and its upgraded role - as you say - and with programmes such as active employment policies, it is nothing less than its function as a mechanism for supplying businesses, with subsidised labour from the pool of unemployed people. Thus, the government and the administration of the OAED advertise active employment policies as an innovative or labour subsidy, instead of subsidising unemployment, as you say, but in reality these programmes are not only new and innovative. They are a tested multi-tool for capital from the previous economic capitalist crisis that offered obscene, even completely free workforce for jobs that are due to end date, while being used to further broaden flexibility and the overall slap in wages and rights of all employees. The so-called reintegration cheque on the labour market began in 2017 on SYRIZA. It was aimed at the unemployed, inviting them to finance the undertaking which would be interested in hiring them with temporary, mispaid and scissors job rights. The modern slavery, exactly what you're promoting! They seem to be able to hire staff with reduced working hours and pay for it on a hunger payroll of 200 euros, without even putting their hands in the pocket. You're subsidising them and feeding them with workers' money. In fact, today, although there is an increase in unemployment, the government's decision to make a further reduction in insurance contributions to the benefit of the companies that went through, and it also refers to the budget for 2021, is mainly deducted from the contributions that have so far been directed at the OAED. This, however, leads to a collapse in the Agency's revenue for 2021 and prescribes a pitiful future for the unemployed. You've got plans, always anti-grassy, always anti-grassy. That is why you rejected the amendments made by the Secretary-General to the JRC because you are ruthlessly and irresponsibly satisfying the claims made by the Greek Industrial Association and the energy projects, which are also the restructuring of the OAED proposed by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. We are clearly saying that all OAS resources are and come from the workers and they must be returned to them when they are unemployed and not donated to them by all governments through programmes at work. It is the robbery of workers' contributions, and even when we have over a million unemployed and the unemployment benefit gets it at only 13%, then sometimes it will go up to 16%. Really, how are the others going to live? You condemn them to hunger. This is what you do with your policy and the OAED. That is why we call both within and outside Parliament for the implementation of our amendment, namely the unemployed to be financed at EUR 600 per month for as long as their unemployment lasts. Of course, the definitive solution is to eliminate unemployment and poverty. This is the only socialist system that has succeeded, because at its heart is man and his needs. That's why it's a higher quality human system. If you would like it to be seen by the pandemic calling for the big small Cuba, despite its embargo, large capitalist countries, such as Italy, a member of the G7 of the largest industrial nations internationally. Why? Because he has invested in human health and care. Therefore, the definitive solution is the break and overthrow of this capitalist barbarism. And we'll be ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u15	The list of honourable Members of the Communist Party with my colleague, Mr Ioannis Delis is completed. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ten years now with your political faces and parties may change, but not with the people's family, all of you are loading all of you to carry all the burdens of the economic crisis. Ten years you have not stopped sending to every people's family the bill from the ravages of a barbaric system, capitalism is saying so, which promises nothing but poverty, unemployment and insecurity. Hundreds of laws from the three Memorandums that you voted with all of you combinations have led thousands of workers and people's households to despair. And all these hundreds of laws, signposts of anti-popular reality, function and apply properly, since the deadlines were - you knew it well - their vote and not their duration. As a result of all these laws, so-called internal devaluation, i.e. the violent reduction of the share and wages of workers and the lowest and lowest and average incomes, which has dragged down and unemployment benefits, the great slaughtering of pensions and an unimpaired tax on direct and indirect taxes that has no precedent for the populace. Civil papers, your own, estimate that during this ten-year period of crisis, until July 2019 again became the New Democracy, the average wage earner, the average people's family lost due to the decrease in wages and tax raid suffered by 50%, that is, half the purchasing power their salaries had in 2009. Today, six hundred thousand are wage earners, people are not numbered, six hundred thousand people with part-time jobs who have a wage of up to 400 euros a month. One out of five has a wage of less than 500 euros, all of which is mixed up and so others a month at a maximum of 700 euros, that is close to half there around the basic salary and below. After all, we all remember the wages to be cut by 25% and 30% by an article and an act of Ministerial Council in 2012 and since then they have been there at the bottom, since SYRIZA five years there actually left them there. We all remember that the presents of Christmas and Easter are being cut off for civil servants, like the tenth and fourteenth pensions of job partisans, as if they had not worked, as if they had not been paid for by spitting blood for years. We all remember the endless ravages with so many names, fees of trade, a contribution of solidarity and much more, as well as the abolition of all income tax-free as small as it may be. And while the working people's family is still paying dearly for the brokens of the previous crisis with a pretext and tool to pandemic the coronary, you're going to charge her on the back and the burdens of the new crisis that broke out before well - the previous one is well cut. With the good day of the pandemic and ready from time to time, as courageous but, for the sake of the capitalists, you are making unscrupulous legislative acts and countless ministerial decisions that all lead to the same result, new wage reductions, new slaughter of labour rights, take-off of the flexibility that makes the life of the tyre workers and does not let them rest, nor a Sunday to see and enjoy their children. And as long as it didn't finally turn out, but regular memorial measures like this, and these measures that are now being taken, you bring them to stay. And so since March, the unpaid work took off, the unpaid overtime became normal with the booze of your laws. Half-wage job reaped, with the rotating work you legislated on. You have exempted the biggers from even the EUR 543 a month from the state's giving them for workers who are being suspended from work. Even so, they have been given the appetite of the gloomers and even greater reduction in the so-called non-wage cost of insurance contributions, as if they were not those contributions from work, sweat and sometimes even from the blood of the workers. Even the Christmas gift that these days gives a breath to the people's houses is cut off and you decide - really, with what right? - to be calculated not in regular, but at 534 euros. But really, masters of the government and other excitementists of capitalist barbarism, what does all this mean to popular families? How do nine hundred thousand unemployed who do not even get an unemployment benefit cent? You don't know a people's house anymore without an unemployed person at least. What can labour families have to do with 500 and 800 euros a month? How can thousands of families who have been small maggots with closed shops and nonexistent mosques live for months? Can they live with 500 euros every two and three months and while their debts are deducted from the taxes you are not saying or now to abolish? You see, if you've got an airline company, you get a hot hand of up to 120 million euros, but if you have a small shop then a returnable deposit that you're going to owe, and it's too much for you. How will thousands of poor rural households, who are not struggling with the elements of nature, find to them both the predators of the banks, the big traders and a rural policy that drives them out of their fields so that the few can get them? But if they were shipowners, they'd have oil for tax. They are, however, poorly-meeted farmers and for them there is no oil, nor is there a little tax-free income. What about the families that were flooded there in Carditsa, Evia, Crete? What about Samos earthquakes? Where should the agony of Larco's working families fit, they don't put it down? And good for them! If all these guys have to run a coronary test, paying out of their pockets and giving half that to them, how will they spend the rest of the days? And don't tell me to go to the hospital for the test. Did you go to see how many hours they wait in the tails of hospital suffering thousands of people? Not only did you not make sure that all of you have staff and materials, but also why you did not even take care to get a good epidemiological surveillance, with a free mass test and similar traceability. The day before yesterday, you still rejected the JRC's proposal that all the unemployed and self-employed should take a six hundred-dollar holidays. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Really, what do all these people's families do now about the education of their children? Have you ever asked if they have a computer on the Internet? Or, as in Rethymnon, they are urging out hours out on the stairs to get a signal from neighbor’s house or even begging, as in Rhodope, for PPC to wait a bit, not to cut off their current until it finished that day. The shouting of anguish from the ELAN PUSE for the Roma families' children, did you hear it? What do you say to all of them? To be patient, why does your government go to the point of growth? The hails of your development, however, have been well seen. Their own collective struggle to trust, if they want to avoid the mortgages being made again, putting bows on their own "basics of work and kiss", said Barbas Costas Varlanes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u17	The Minister will now take the floor for his prototype. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like, sincerely, to thank the Communist Party of Greece, for giving me the opportunity as Minister of Labour at a critical moment for the country, while the pandemic is passing through, an unprecedented phenomenon that is going through and through the whole of the world, a debate that is becoming extensive on labour market issues, workers, unemployment, to present and unfold all the policies that we have carried out throughout this entire period in favour of the maintenance of jobs, in favour of the citizens, which is at the heart of our policy. It will also emerge through the discussion, as will news from leading, world-famous economists and from the European Commission itself that Greece has taken the most effective measures around the world in the midst of pandemic. The most effective measures to maintain jobs, the most effective measures to support workers. Let me make two - three main remarks, which I consider essential for our debate. We neither grant the JRC nor any other party the right to be seen as more pro-active than the New Democracy. Not long ago, not even now in the future. The New Democracy's proliferation of the ideology, its statute, has been distinguished by its interest in man. That is why there is a party. As a party we exist to support people's living standards, make it better, take them to a higher standard of living and economic level. One more thing. Our party has given a script. No one's claiming the perfect one. From 1974 until today is the party that restored democracy, the Constitution. On the occasion of the loss, unfortunately, of Ziskar da Estén, of the philanthropic President of France - because you made a special reference to the EEC then and today - to say that, yes, it is the fact that her founder, Constantine Karamanlis, passed his gaze in the future, saw that our country must be in the middle of the West. And then, with the philanthropy Ziskar da Estén, the great decision was taken to join the EEC and the European Union at the time. Today, ten times I have heard from the Communist Party on the EEC and the European Union of monopolies, how harmful they are, how harmful they harm workers. Have you imagined what Greece would be like if we were not in the European Union? Do you still maintain such opinions and ideas and seek to be close to the citizens and workers and to claim their vote? That's your right. We're all judging. You're judging what you're talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make a case. I read the JRC's topical question, I heard the Secretary-General, Mr Koutsouba, and read the requests he raises and I make a case. Let us say today that we were saying that we accepted all the things described in your current question. Can you tell us how much it costs? First question. Question two. Where will this money come from? Or do we 'cool in blurred waters' so that we can send out a message that we are the ones who can give billions of euros, which do not exist? And you come here today with a series of questions and claims toward where? The billions of them from where they come from, one question comes in. You're going to tell me: from the multinational monopolies. Where did you see these? Can't you see the government budget? Do you not see what we take as a state from the budget, from businesses, through taxation and all, to redistribute public social goods for defence, for education, for social policies, for policies such as the minimum guaranteed income, for unemployment benefits, which you deny? Isn't that the money? Do they have enough money? Do you see them in the state budget, somewhere like a stock, and they're abundant and we can't get them? Are you more merciful? In any case, this is where hypocrisy goes. The policy of each party is determined by itself. You make a policy with specific features. It is evaluated by the world and this is reflected over time in both the assessment of vote and the assessment of the citizens towards the parties. I would, however, like to respond to a few points which have been raised and which I consider urgent to be answered and clarified, because it is a series of inaccuracies that have been said and I want to correct them, and I want to restore the truth. Firstly, the question of trade unionism. I have said many times that the union for the New Democracy is a pillar for democracy. The pillar of democracy is trade unionism, which I believe must be attractive, strengthened, attractive to workers and be strong and attracted to as many working people as possible. This is because through trade unionism the interests of workers and democracy and healthy competition are really promoted as strong as its voice is, but its sound voice is. Because under no circumstances do you have the illusion that we will allow the WEU to replace the official trade unions. No way! The institutions are independent, elected by the procedures elected and elected by the same procedures. And in no case do you think that the threats you have said here several times, 'Don't dare' and 'Don't dare', will cause us to get lesser. And a bill will come and restore many things to the right, to the most transparent and democratic. Because I cannot understand what we are saying, for example, that we do not want to have seals - unions, what is bothering you. What bothers you with transparency? What is bothering you that the labour and employers' organisations will now enter in a fully transparent way, so that we know what they are and that each one is identified separately? What's bothering you? What scares you? Threats don't pass. The bill will come, we will discuss it with an extensive parliamentary procedure, it will have plenty of time in the consultation - in the parliamentary procedure provided for - and it will come here to discuss it and vote on it. But it's the right thing to do. Now, as far as the strike is concerned. Who said the strike is being lifted? The strike is a leading democratic right, which must be decided on by specific procedures. We will simply extend it here, and it will be by electronic vote, so that all workers can vote and not some people. Are these backwards or are we opening the streets for a more democratic trade union movement? Of course, the second. With regard to free collective bargaining, to which you have referred many times, we are in favour of free collective bargaining. Where did you see that free collective bargaining was abolished? At the heart of our policy are free collective bargaining. You will also see it in the bill that will come, but also in what we voted last year, in 2019, which was provided by SYRIZA and you and that free collective bargaining and industry and business, trade unions and contracts are being abolished. Nothing was abolished and everything is here, exist. Thirdly, I am constantly listening to 'paying overtime', 'you have brought law and the overtime are not paid'. What law is that, Mr. Katasotis? What law is that? Why are you lying to the world? Is there a law that says that overtime is not paid? Overtime paid, paid and paid. The existing framework, of course - the existing framework - is a ten-year framework, legislative, which SYRIZA has also activated, that is, for years now - has been talking about settling working time. It's nothing to do with this. He stays the way he is. Where did you see we brought a law that says overtime is not paid? Why are you lying? And, of course, lying grows when I hear here that we have abolished the eighth. Where did you see that written? Where did you see that he was abolished in the eighth? Why do you say inaccurate in this Chamber? The eighth hour remains, and the weekend remains at the core of the Labour Law of our country. And, of course, I listen very strongly to the issue of temporary employment. This is where we won't argue. Temporary employment, flexible forms of employment were, are and will remain as a framework for the functioning of the labour market. There's all over the developed world. The measurements given are accurate as regards the number as described by the ‘ERGANIS’. But the question is what you're saying. SYRIZA said, "by law and an article I will abolish flexible forms of employment". He did not, of course, when he became government, because he rightly saw that if he dared to do so, the next day we would have hundreds of thousands of unemployed on the road. Where are you going to appoint them? What's the matter with the Will you take this world and tell him 'Come and we'll appoint you to the party'? Is that possible? Are these reasonable? I want to end up with something that really impressed me. You messed with the teleworking, too. Is telework an enemy? It was a deficit of Greek reality and of Greek Labour Law that we had not created a serious and extended institutional framework for teleworking. It was a deficit. It has, however, emerged in the environment of the crisis. And I have said many times that it was and is now an opportunity to establish this institutional framework and it will be a concrete and expanded chapter within the new labour law that we will bring in the next period. Because teleworking was lacking, and it is something that worldwide was recognised as something positive. Here in Greece it was a deficit of the Labour Law of our country that we did not support. I am now going to the issue, which concerns Law 4172/2013, the minimum wage. We should put things in a row. Indeed, I am the one who brought the law to the House. It's Law 4172/2013, which you often get used to calling as Brutsi law. I want to remind you of the incidents of that period. When this law came to Parliament, at that time, SYRIZA came out of the House - when the law came to be passed - passed across the Constitutional Square and said that this is the most anti-virtual law that ever existed - Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou said that SYRIZA was then - and that the next day that will become a government will abolish with a law and an article of the Brutsi Act, the law that determines the minimum wage. We'll say what the law says about minimum wages. What happened in practice? When you became government, you didn't touch him antenna. You didn't harm anything from the law, you kept it and, in fact, in 2019, just before the national elections, while on the basis of the law you could assess the possibility of raising the minimum wage from 1-1-2017, as predicted, you get over it, you went over it, you did in 2019 and you activated the law, and you were given the increase to the minimum wage that was paid. The criticism we made at the time - I had the New Democracy employment portfolio - was that it could have been that this accumulated labour cost has been distributed more gently since 2017. But you obviously did it for election, targeted. "We have elections in 2019, let's do the minimum wage increase," and it had to be more partial than 1-1-2017. In any case, SYRIZA not only abolished the law, but maintained it. And he was right to keep him. But let's see why. Ladies and gentlemen, in Greece there were great pathogens, pathogens at very many levels and the administrative and financial system of our country. One of them, which had an overall impact on the country's budgets, was the formation of the minimum wage. With the responsibility of the political system as well - we must be honest - but also because of the lack of maturity of the social partners, the way in which it was decided what the minimum wage would be, it was out of reality, and that had to be corrected. And, indeed, L.4172/2013 streamlines the calculation, as it maintains the possibility of free collective bargaining with the social partners - it is a leading process in the way of L.4172/2013 for the calculation of the minimum wage - but it also puts two more, three stables, which are very important and which were closed, that is, that the minimum wage will always be calculated in a way that will be taken into account in the future, and the capacity and strength of the economy. It must be assessed what the possibility is, the country's budget, to raise the minimum wage, because the increase in the minimum wage affects companies as a whole, affects unemployment, affects employment, affects the wages, the competitiveness of the country, labour productivity. So that's what we did. For the first time, a specific framework came in, which determines how one can draw safe conclusions as to what the minimum wage would be, as SYRIZA did in 2019. And who's gonna decide that? The state? Oh, no. It is decided by the most reliable institutions of the country, such as IOBE, economic operators such as KEPE, such as the Greek Statistical Office, such as the Bank of Greece and we put the social partners in. There is therefore a wide debate on the minimum wage level and the country's ability to raise the minimum wage. This is the intervention we made in 2013 and it was right. By the way, however, I should like to say that the minimum wage for the moment is one of the key issues that are being discussed at European level. And I say this in the sense that Europe within 2021 - what was missing - will have a single framework. Be careful, it will not harmonise the minimum wage in all countries, but there will be a single framework for calculating the minimum wage. Each country will have the right to a mechanism of its own, but everyone will have a framework. It will come in the form of a directive in Greece, as in all European countries. A broad democratic debate is currently taking place throughout Europe on the issue of the minimum wage framework. From what I read and from the summaries of the texts that come to my office, I see that what is being discussed today in Europe has many elements from our own mechanism, that is, many of which we identified in 2013 for minimum wage formation are part of the text that is currently being discussed in Europe and that is good. I would now like to unfold a few things which I consider to be important for our debate and which were also the point that the Communist Party has asked the specific question on labour issues, wages and all the other questions that have been raised. Ladies and gentlemen, our country has entered an unprecedented climate of recession, not as a result of its own economic policy, but as a result of a pandemic that is global. It is a recession that goes through all the economies of the world. I don't think anyone can say it's not like that, to deny it. So what I am criticising, let me say is that you are bringing this topical question at a time when you should not. We should have such an extensive debate when things come back to normality and not to the heart, which is currently trying the labour market, and businesses, and the whole of our country, and the whole world economy. But, in any case, we were the government, we held the wheel and we made the decisions. And from the beginning of March 2020 we started with unprecedented, unprecedented policies. I do not hide from you that neither I had the experience nor anyone knew what measures we should take at that time. But with my colleagues at the Ministry, with the chosen employees of the Ministry of Labour, we have co-decided and determined the course and road map of the measures and policies that we have to take. And overall, from the Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Development, which are the productive ministries, we have decided on overall policies that have been followed and followed up so far. One example is the issue of suspensions of employment contracts, which is a top issue. Inhibitors of employment contracts have actually enabled undertakings to avoid the administrative and financial costs of the worker, but to maintain jobs. That was very important, i.e. maintaining jobs. I am quoting: shortly before the crisis begins in my office with the social partners, employers and GSE, we have said that we will give hands to agree on something that says quite simply that in the face of the crisis that starts - March 2020 - we will all set back, we will try to give each other a share of what can, state, businesses, workers and at the end of the crisis, and at the end of the end of the crisis we are all going to win and one to support each other. Because this crisis is unprecedented, its characteristics were not known to anyone, the negative effects are now recorded and recorded worldwide, as in Greece, at the level of recession and the labour market. So the question of suspensions of employment contracts was a central policy, which brought results. Alone? Of course not. In combination with policies that have to do with support from the Ministry of Finance, such as the repayable advance, which is one of the most important tools that have been exploited by businesses in this period, such as the issue of the maintenance clause for jobs, such as policies that we have taken to support workers, covering their insurance contributions by the State in their nominal wages, so that they do not lose rights to insurance and pensions in the future. We also have policies to do with "ERGANI" and with the Ministry of Labour. Because I am obliged, whenever I am from this Step, to congratulate the employees of the Ministry of Labour and the factors that shaped the "ERGANI", on 1 March 2013. Because with "ERGANI" this whole structure of worker support has been built. I will simply say to you that with Christmas, Christmas gift payments and suspension payments, closed and affected businesses in December, we will reach about three million payments for workers. If there was no "ERGANI", it would be a very difficult project for the state to achieve it. 'ERGANIS' has contributed to the maximum during this period. There are also issues relating to the reduction of insurance contributions, tools to do with support for jobs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u19	Minister, leave something for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u20	I've got enough for dentistry, too. I'm closing, Mr. President. We have hundreds of thousands of jobs, tax incentives, tax reductions, interventions in favour of workers. It is a series of policies, which at the end of the process have brought results, not what makes us happy, of course not, but results, which have been rewarded globally. It's what I started my speech with. In other words, the European Commission itself came in and said that by assessing the results of the labour market throughout Europe we saw that Greece took the most effective measures to keep jobs. And above that come the world's most prominent economists, who say with common articles in a very important magazine "How to protect jobs during COVID -19, lessons from the great experience", that is, how to get lessons from Greece to save jobs in the pandemic period. So that is the proof we have today to give to the world of work, to the world that really suffers, to the world that we share and are with it, saying that yes, indeed, no one says it is all perfect. But we did everything we can, with responsibility, reasoned, householded, with opportunities for the state budget to cover the last citizen, so that no one will be left uncovered in the crisis. We have done so, it is confirmed by the European Commission and by these international recordings. We are here to move on until the end of the crisis. And until the end of the crisis, what we commit is that no citizen will be left alone, no citizen will be left uncovered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u21	We shall now proceed as follows: we shall start with the parliamentary representatives. The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party will take the floor first. Because Mr. Koutsubas has spoken, his time is falling to half. I suggest that Mr. Karathanasopoulos add protology, dentology and a small tolerance, so ten minutes, and keep your tritology if you need to say something by closing down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u22	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, in the limited time of the debate, I will try to focus on the main points of how we deal with the issue. First of all, Mr Minister, some comments in your speech. First, it's not the pandemic. You're just working on the pandemic, taking advantage of the opportunity that pandemic gave you to implement your antique designs much faster. One of the prisoners. Secondly, our people say "Tell me your friend to tell you who you are". So when the European Union and the International Monetary Fund reward you for how serious measures you have taken for workers, then you understand very well, since the European Union and the International Monetary Fund are a scroller of labour rights, because they want flexible, cheap workers without rights. From this point of view, it is not a question of who is the most enterprising party, Minister. Besides, if you really are with the workers, you could do a very simple thing, that is the reverse that you yourself did in 2012, and bring back by an act of cabinet what was in place before 2012. The memos are over. Why didn't you do it before the pandemic? So what was the challenge to show a sample of charity? Do not look for an alibi and take advantage of the backs that the SYRIZA government has put into you to show that you too are with the workers, because both SYRIZA and you as a government are opposite the working class. You have implemented and implemented violent, hard, anti-grassroots measures. Of course, Minister, and you yourself have given examples of writing. For example, you can be classified as the curator of the application of the requirements of industrialists, shipowners and bankers at the expense of the working class. You said that there is a pandemic debate about the JRC's question and that we could be discussing after the pandemic. What do you want to show with? You want to reassure workers that the measures are temporary. But, as our people say, nothing more permanent than the temporary one. And, secondly, our people have a very bad experience because you yourself, the New Democracy Government and the New Democracy - PASOK - but also the SYRIZA Government, have a duty to take the measures because the troika requires them with the memoranda, they will be temporary and when the memorandums are stopped, they will also stop. Did you see any measure that hit workers' rights to be temporary in nature and to be suspended after the formal expiry of the memoranda? None at all. So, the more temporary the anti-terrestrial memorial measures were, the more temporary the anti-terrestrial measures you take in pandemic conditions. We have to find out what the root cause of this attack is. Because it's not the deepest cause of this attack. As the memorials were not the deepest cause of this attack. So we will also be able to see the depth of the anti-government attacks and its duration, but also who benefits, its long-term consequences. From this point of view, we do not blame you for the idea that you are neoliberal, that you are one or the other. The criticisms made by other parties are very easy and very painless. We say clearly that the measures you are taking and the previous governments have an economic cause, they have an economic basis. What is this economic cause and the economic basis? It is the shield of the competitiveness of business groups. That's the reason. Why do you think that through this process - and so it is in the capitalist world - the downturn in the price of labour, the crackdown on labour rights is shielding the competitiveness of business groups. This is a perpetual process that has no expiry date. For this very reason, and in conditions of intense competition at global level, it is the main need for capital today all over the world. This is why these measures are not only Greek measures, they are applied everywhere with greater or less intensity, but according to the conditions of the labour movement. These measures had been delayed here, because there was a strong class movement, and the memoranda had been carried out on a pretext. In other countries of the European Union much earlier they had been implemented. In this respect, therefore, they are measures that are implemented everywhere. And that's why this attack isn't over. So it's not temporary. What's the result? It is what we are experiencing and seeing at global level and not only in Greece. It is a huge increase in social inequalities where richer people become even richer and poorer people become poorer where socially produced wealth accumulates in a handful of capitalists. The evidence is found and I don't want to use it. I'm just going to use some of the topical data. Very recently, we have seen in public how much the property of a handful of big businessmen from global multinationals who are active in the field of new technologies in the pandemic era has increased in the eight months of the pandemic. Five times their fortune has increased. And right now, the hundreds of richer Americans have twice as much money as 50% of American citizens. The hundred richer have twice as much money as 50% of American citizens! Imagine it. And think about what unrealistic sizes we're talking about. That's not a mistake in the mixture. It is the result of the economics of the iron heel of this system. In this respect, we do not say that your measures are fragmentary. We say that you have taken care of all the previous years and now form a mechanism for the continuous reproduction of a very cheap labour force and without rights. Armoured mechanism from all sides. And in the creation of this mechanism, in the process of creating this mechanism, all governments were backed up, with the courtesy of the New Democracy and the PASOK - Change Movement and SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks and all others. Has this mechanism been created? And how is he? It is first of all the fixing of the price of the labour force, and I stand against all the lower wages by ministerial decision, the Brutsi - Ahtsioglou Law, says, and with a ministerial decision that will take into account the competitiveness of businesses and the strengths of the economy, to highlight - because it is your common idea - that it is the minimum wage for unemployment. Really? If that is the case, what you think is true, then it is actually enough to be the roadmap of permanent workers' wages. Because under the risk of unemployment, you'll be kicking the workers' wages. But for unemployment we know very well that it is the same capital. It is because, for example, it carries businesses, in the context of freedom of movement, in other countries. Secondly, you have abolished the collective agreements, the branches and substituted them by individual, operational, and even by unions of workers who may do so, because you want to break the trade unions through businesses and give the right to workers' associations, something that SYRIZA has maintained. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] A third basic tool is the management of working time. So, who abolished the eighth? It's typically there, but that means eight hours a day and five hours a week. What do you think? You say that work time is arranged either in semester or in time. So, if on an annual basis you've worked an average of eight hours a day and three hundred days a year, you're finely covered. Now, if you've really worked a hundred and fifty days, fifteen and seventeen hours, something that breaks eight hours, breaks up in the 50 days, that's not what you take into consideration. So why do you not measure working time on a daily basis and measure it on a monthly, half-yearly basis? So here's how you fight overtime and eight hours. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President, to say two more words. Fourth element, smashing insurance rights. You put them in the front-stage bed of reducing the so-called non-wage cost to shield the competitiveness of businesses. Cracking workers' trade union rights and above all the right to strike. That's the point. Don't move us, Minister, for unions - "stamps" when you and PASOK have set up unions - "stamps" of workers so that you can control federations and higher unions. New Democracy and PASOK will have set up an industry and you're talking about the class movement? Fifth issue, employers' terrorism and state violence. You're saying they'll be able to vote freely? How free? Have you forgotten what is going on behind the factory gates, with employers' terrorism, with redundancies when one goes to claim and demand side by side and has state violence? So, it's a structure deep anti-virtual. We are doing a series of concrete interventions, amendments, legislative proposals with examples. I shall mention a simple example, and I shall end with that, of the diversity of our understanding. We have tabled, for example, an amendment calling for the grant of the unemployed by means of an emergency aid to the holidays. What did you bring as a counterproposal? Subsidized long-term unemployed jobs for nine months, 200 euros, which will be paid by the State budget and the cover of their insurance contributions. What does that mean? That you're giving employers free workers for nine months. At the same time, you are helping to make even more compress the average payroll with the 200 euros you give them and on the other hand hide who you pay for it. They pay the workers themselves from bookings to the OAED so that the industry can have free employees. They pay the workers to win the industrialist. And from this point of view, we say money is, of course, there, because you say, 'Where are you going to get all this?' But you're giving this money from state loans, from state subsidies, from European Union funding. Sixty-seven billion will take the next few years from the European Union and give it to the multinationals.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u25	Close it, Mr. Karathanasopou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u26	And from this point of view - I conclude with that, Mr President - we are, of course, saying that the workers not only of Greece but of the rest of Europe have no place in the twilight alliance of the European Union, because it is the prison, the mechanism to break down its rights. And we have imagined a society - and that is why we are struggling because it has become a reality for a period of history - where the worker will be the dominant of the wealth he produces to satisfy his needs and not the parasitic role of the major shareholders of business groups. Thank you very much, Mr President, and your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u27	We are now entering the Parliamentary Representatives according to the order of the parties. For reasons of equal treatment, I suppose you will approve the six minutes to do eight, because I have left Mr Carathanasopoulos above. So we start with the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Christo Bukoro. Here you go, Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with a rhetorical question. Is this 40% of the Greek people who voted for Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy in the last elections all capitalist, industrialists, representatives of capital? This stable, large percentage that has always supported the New Democracy since 1974, are representatives of capital? Are they the prosperous, are they the ones who do not understand the needs of the rest? What if this is the case in Greece, so is it in the whole of Western Europe? And if not all of them - and we are not all agreed - capitalists and zapluts have fallen victim to some magical abilities of the New Democracy and are we keeping them captive, captive and enchanted to be ideologically directed and by their choice to our side rather than to your own, ladies and gentlemen who are supposed to be better represented? What's going on? To go to the second question, or if you'd like to make a second point. To ask the right questions today does not mean that it has the right answers. He says with his question today: Do workers prosper in Greece? Are they happy? Is it their standard of living what we would like, the euphoria? Of course not. Should the wages of workers not be increased? Of course, yes. But what's the answer? Because how this answer is to be given is a sign of our fundamental difference. Has the JRC come here to formulate a series of maximalists in our view, without any cost, without telling us everything that suggests how much they cost, and above all who will pay for it? So let the state budget pay for it. In a country that comes out of a ten-year crisis, obviously taxing capitalists, big capital, large businesses, monopolies and all that. But that has been answered. And that's where we all agree. The chapter has no home, and your ideology has answered that, not our ideology. And with tomorrow's overtaxation in order to meet the demands you demand, the capital will emigrate. And you have a second answer, and you say that the means of production must be staggered, and that is how to meet the demands you are asking today. And we're asking you, I think, a good question. When, where and whenever the means of production were staggered, there was no opportunity for happiness and prosperity. And to start our own country here, all state businesses went bankrupt, failed. As if that were not enough, they loaded the Greek people and the burdens he kept paying for. I remind you of Olympic Air Force. Before the privatization the Greek taxpayer, the worker, that is, paid a million euros a month. But elsewhere in any system of production the means of production were under state control, phenomena of counterproductivity, corruption phenomena, economic failure phenomena were recorded. The story says either in the system or in the other system. And where this system is currently in force in the few countries, I do not see workers prosper. You tell me they pay the bans, they pay one, they pay the other. Well, this conflict and the tension and the competition of states in all the historical phases of mankind existed. But I do not see either North Korea or Venezuela, nor do I see countries that are oriented to such systems prosper most. I see a nomenoclar party prosper again, who are close to power. That is where our differences begin. You say that all this can be paid by the state, as if the state were something that is personal, as if the income of the state is not from the Greek taxpayer. 97% of taxpayers are not capital, they are not entrepreneurs. They're employees, they're self-employed, micro-enterprises, micro-professionals. So, what do we do, eject taxes to the heights and pay these minced requests? That is where our differences begin. You say that. We say that only if the taxes fall, the investments only then. It is a process that has never been fully done in our country with greater responsibility and not yours. A process of development integration in this country has never existed. There is now an effort on the basis of fewer taxes, less insurance contributions, more investment, more jobs and better paid jobs. This is our ideology. That is why he voted for 40% of the Greek people. And do not go into the wrong because pandemic alters our policy, that this policy will not be implemented. From the pandemic fast - I want to believe - we will leave and then we will have the opportunity to implement this policy fully. Now, let's go to the pandemic's policies. What did this Minister do to you? As soon as the wave of the first pandemic broke out one of the first decisions was to ban redundancies, to continuously extend the benefits of work - I am now talking about policies in the middle of a pandemic - to strengthen the financial possibilities of the long-term unemployed. It's a little bit of money, yeah. But when do they get them? Now they're taking them into the pandemic. Also extended heating allowance. It was doubled for other forms of energy for both mountain areas and firewood and petlet and natural gas. The previous left government had reached it under 50 million. We went back to 95 million, when we started it at 250 million the heating allowance. Furthermore, the reduction in insurance contributions which constitute small but visible wage increases is a pillar of our policy. And for the pandemic, all the tests are free and the vaccine will be free. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] And of course the National Health System has weaknesses. We never hid them. But we are proud that under such suffocating pressure from the National Health System neither a Greek citizen who is insured or uninsured is left without care nor will remain. Not one who's needed until now when we're talking I.T.D. didn't have it. They all had it, bed-care everything - with the problems I repeat and the weaknesses that the National Health System has - with the increase of the ICU beds, with seven thousand recruitments in eight months and then the follow-up. As for the reduction of the health budget, the pandemic will not end on 31 December. And we have proven that as long as the National Health System needs funds it will have them. So, I'd say it doesn't reflect the reality of your number. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like to mention a few more general policies. Isn't this the particular minister who started the war on black labor? Isn't he the one who introduced the strictest fine of EUR 11 000 for every undeclared job? Was it not 42% undeclared work in the country, when these decisions were taken, and today we are talking about undeclared work less than 10%?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Buquoir, you need to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u30	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the ERGAN system records everything. All the international organisations advocate that the work was protected in Greece, in a country that had emerged since the ten-year crisis, Mr President. We are sure that, with the end of the pandemic, we will enter a development process and that is where the interesting debate will be, how to share the excess of wealth. Because, ladies and gentlemen, poverty does not share in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, too. On behalf of SYRIZA, the parliamentary representative, Marilissa Xinoyanakopoulou, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, every debate on the situation in the labour and social situation of the Greek people is both timely and necessary. In fact, when your government, Minister, is doing what Mr Mitsotakis said in an election on the day after this election: the roller on labour rights and employment relations. Because the truth is that right after the July 2019 elections, with the first amendments you have brought to free redundancies, to abolish the protection of contract workers, you have come to downgrade and denounce the APRC. And now we see it and the period of pandemic, while you move the finger on the citizens, we see that there is a dispersion of pandemic in the workplace, in the Community, a great dispersion, especially in northern Greece, and that it passes days until the necessary measures are taken and that the operation of businesses is suspended. We have also seen, of course, the complete fight against collective bargaining and collective autonomy. All this before the pandemic. Once the pandemic began you made a choice, overall as a government and you as a Minister of Labour. Under the pretext of pandemic, you are using it to exploit and make a violent and great restructuring of the economy, leaving small and medium-sized enterprises in their luck, in the logic of the immunity of the herd to the economy, and to make a complete deregulation and dismantling of labour relations and the labour market. So that's the reality. And because you say that you did not have the means - and you also criticise anyone who comes to tell you that you had to follow another policy - you know very well that at this time you have budgetary instruments which had no government in previous years, especially the years, of course, of the memoranda. I am referring to the suspension for two years of the Stability Pact in Europe. I am referring to the liberalisation of the ESRB's resources, which could support both small and medium-sized enterprises and work and, overall, a different political direction from the European Union - in which you are against its choices - and, of course, the 37 billion security pillow you inherited from the SYRIZA government. Report, Minister, teleworking. But you have announced that you will bring in the institutional framework for teleworking for months. But what is the reality? At the moment it is 50% of workers in forced telework, without any institutional framework. It is clear that there is a feasibility, otherwise you would have brought it all the previous months, when you said that you had it ready, in order to have an elementary working time assurance, as well as with regard to the rights of workers who are on teleworking. Of course, because I imagine that you have studied and reasonably wrote what you have submitted to the European Union as a plan for the Recovery Fund, which you have presented without any dialogue, as you have promised, in the European Union, to note that where you are talking about teleworking, you mention it as an elastic form of work. This is the reality and refer to the text of the plan you have submitted to the European Union. As far as overtime is concerned, you come here and you're surprised because we're talking about unpaid overtime. But, Minister, I'm sorry, but you did not bring an amendment here in the House in September, for you voted on your own, as a New Democracy, where, for the workers who have been forced to quarantine, you set off with unpaid overtime? Didn't we tell you that this opens the way to do a full introduction of unpaid work? We are making them out of our minds, or you have leaked what you presented to the Ministerial Council a month ago, presenting this working bill, which will of course be a gravel tombstone for both labour rights and working hours, as well as for the reform - counter-reforming of the emblem No.1264/1982 for trade unionism. So you have leaked that there you will provide for a overtime scheme that is actually unpaid, by means of an off-take and leave netting. We're not making it out of our minds. Spit it out, if that's not the case. Unfortunately, however, because you said that you were a charitable party, you know that these are judged in practice and historically and with the policy being pursued. However, at this time you have envyed the glory of the unspeakable memory of Laskaris, whose legislation was abolished by Law 1264/1982, who had abolished the struggle of order. As far as the immediate issues are concerned, it is clear that you have chosen within the pandemic to support unemployment, not to support labour. You chose it while you had the opportunity to pursue another policy. Mostly you have left thousands of people, thousands of workers, who are "invisible" to your own government. And what do you come and bring in the face of this difficult December where we have entered and perhaps the most difficult Christmas in recent years? So you come and give your Christmas present ragged. We say to you: Good, not to impose businesses, but you can and can - and we have tabled an amendment - to cover the difference in full both as regards the part of the business and to get workers a gift on the basis of nominal wages. After all, in demand this will go. It is not going to the savings, as, unfortunately, support from the banks has gone to the big businesses, with TPIX, all of which, according to the data from the Bank of Greece, have gone to deposits rather than to the real economy. You came and doubled the minimum guaranteed income for the beneficiaries in December. You did well. But is that sufficient, at the moment, to give aid to this winter world of work and the unemployed, which accounts for 54m euros, when the SYRIZA government, in difficult monumental times, gave a social dividend of over 700m euros? From there on, the unemployed. You support - and you rightly support - thirty thousand unemployed in the long term. The remaining seven hundred forty thousand unemployed, Minister, who are accredited to the OAED? Shouldn't they get support? And you can do it. You have the financial resources. It's your choice that you don't. We have proposed there, for all the 'invisible' workers who are in the air, to have an emergency aid income for December, to be able and to stand by the workers and the unemployed and the extreme poverty, but also to have all this poverty in the middle classes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, half the phrase and I'm closing. With regard to the minimum wage you mentioned, the SYRIZA government increased the minimum wage as soon as we got out of the memorials, Minister, and abolished the shameful subjugation. We had announced that, if we won the elections, we would make the further increase and then we would go to free collective bargaining. You are postponing the increase, and in the Pissaridis plan, it is clear that you believe, since this is the background to your proposals, to a reduced minimum wage, and indeed, without collective bargaining and without legalisation, but on the basis of a committee, with the cynical and challenging footnote that where there is a legislature favours the weak and that is counterproductive. That's your charity policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Andreas Loverdes has the floor on behalf of the Movement. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u34	Mrs. Xenonanakopoulou, good morning, first. I am not a follower of the phrase "you are not entitled to speak" that some older politicians inherited from the past, but I am a loyal and consistent fan of the office for me in politics that, when you have some work in alpha or beta field of government action, you must allow your work to raise the finger of criticism, because, if you do not allow it, you are a little or a little incomprehensible and the world understands that. I mean, you're inequitable with your works. Words are words. The words when they are based on the projects have inviolability in society, in citizens, in workers, in the electorate, after all. I am saying this because, although it was a simple reference to my speech, I am making this a key issue, because I remember you voting here in the House - and then in the opposition to stress it - these unfair measures, regulations relating to the strike of workers, one third of the financially arranged to be able to establish the quorum, the '50%+1' of workers in the primary union to take the decisions, and so on, the lockout, that is, the employer's retreat and the fast track procedures to check the legality of such a decision. These were the interventions of the SYRIZA Government, ladies and gentlemen, which amended PASOK Law 1264/1982. It lasted for so many decades, withdrew our own government at the time of the economic crisis and the first memorial, the pressure that we then accepted from the troika to make the change and did not make it. But you did. So we should be in this Chamber when we talk about work. We, ladies and gentlemen, are members and MPs of a party which traditionally, because of its position, does not want to play the role of workers' unionist in any way. We are a party that also meets the two major crosses, as a political body, which the Greek society has today, on the one hand, to tackle the recession and, on the other, to protect workers' rights. We look at the economy on both sides, not unilaterally, as you do, questions, but like the government, on the other hand. There is no job without entrepreneurship and growth. These two crosses, this difficult coupling we lift on our backs. Mr Brutsis, to you as Minister of Labour - because I would like to show my understanding to the fellow politicians who are in this difficult position today - and to my fellow labour ministers, I stress that they have an argument in favour of them, but they rarely defend it - nor I have found it - to feel the political body, to feel the citizens of the Minister of Labour as if it were this consul of whatever problems the market is having, while the Minister of Labour welcomes the problems and is made too many times, and the victim, in terms of reproach, complaints and finally, his course is a difficult process. Colleagues of the Communist Party, I, the Minister, would ask him, in particular, about the relationship between teleworking and pensioning. There's not a single pension coming out. The information we have - if I am wrong, I will be corrected - is that there is no pension. I would ask him, above all, how teleworking produces a daily life, what happens with people who have been calling us for so long for a pension. I would ask the Minister, who said that in an electronic way pensions will come out in one day, in two days, at any rate, very soon. I would also like to ask him about the operation of the 'Cooperation - WORK' mechanism, because he has very much praised the Ministry that this programme will be very good and effective. I would very much like to know what the course is and how things are evolving in relation to 'COMPANY WORK'. As far as the issues that are being discussed with the Ministry of Labour, which are related to the main issue of the question, are concerned, we should discuss with the Ministry of Labour about a law that will come, when it comes and regulates the issues of the strike is not bad, but is not the basic one. It's not bad, but I say again, it's not the main thing, because the law hasn't come yet. We hear a lot of it, the report gives it mainly - which the Ministry gives, obviously - sometimes the Minister reports, but we haven't seen the law, they haven't brought him in yet. Something is difficult for them, something goes back to their hierarchies, because they had mentioned it for a long time, we waited for him and he didn't come. We'll see. However, the basic thing to do with people who will need to make use of the instrument of unemployment to defend their rights is the situation in the workplace. Minister, it has proved in practice - I will mention an example that I know and which is easier for me - that the deterioration of the sectoral contracts, which we have been telling you here in the House, is a fact in terms of focusing, waiters and delivery services. They're four hundred thousand people. The deterioration of the sectoral conventions, which we pointed out to be resulting from your own legislative intervention, is an undeniable fact. Of all the issues I have in the few minutes I choose to tell you this. Mr. Minister, Mr. Brutsi, Mr. Yannis, we all wish that the pandemic be brought back to normality at some point, but what normality will be? Your government will not be hiding behind the pandemic and Greek-Turkish and its good and bad as far as all areas of action are concerned - because now the government is hiding - and you will have the heavy burden of facing that day - I hope it will be as soon as possible in the first half of 2021 - with an economy that has many problems with entrepreneurship and many problems as a result in the labour sector, in all sectors of an economy which 97% of it consists of small, medium and micro-enterprises. 97%, ladies and gentlemen! Then that there will be no state wages, as there is today, this small wage paid to workers, then there will be nothing but reduced entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship and great unemployment, then see what tools you will face that very difficult situation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because it is right that we managed the economic crisis ourselves, our monks, in 2009. Alone, and you were all across the street! I remember when I voted for the Part-time Act in 2010, that all parties were against complaints, with voices. This law, however, still applies. Those of SYRIZA who denounced and shouted and jumped over us did not harm this law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Loverdo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u36	I'm closing, Mr. President. You're right. So, Minister, to close my speech, you will have the advantage that all Europe and the Western world live the same problem, so there will be economic tools. The point is, however, that each country will face the next day and with its own tools, qualifications and weaknesses, and we do not have a serious state mechanism and we do not take money from the European Union quickly, and we have a very hurt business space and work place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Greek Solution Mr. Villardos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. The most good thing you mentioned, Mr. Brutsi, was the article on how other countries should learn from the management of the pandemic crisis on behalf of Greece. It was really fun. As far as my colleague, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, is concerned, we wonder where he saw the least of the taxes. With an amendment to today's draft law, the oil tax, supposedly for green energy, is again being reinstated, the money of the fund which was driven to save PPC, which also increased electricity prices, which is, in fact, an indirect tax. As far as the question is concerned, the JRC is obviously absolutely right in its protest against workers. Unfortunately, however, as far as the policy of the memorandum is concerned in our country is concerned, the situation will not change, and the worst of all is the fact that the reductions in the wages of workers have been lost. They have been lost because they have not been accompanied by investments that would increase the productivity of our economy so that workers can raise their wages in the prevailing conditions of a free and extreme competitive market worldwide. We all know that gross fixed capital formation has been reduced by more than 50% a year in the last ten years. This means that not only do not buy new machinery and promote new technologies, but on the contrary do not replace existing ones when depreciation expires, so it is impossible to increase productivity on the one hand, and wages on the other. Unfortunately, pension cuts have gone too, as well as the limitation of the social state, after continuing to increase our public debt. At 208% of GDP today from 127% in 2009. The reduction in wages and pensions has led to the collapse of our GDP, while the State's revenues from the increased tax rates have remained low, as our GDP has fallen. Combining the fall in wages and pensions, the rise in unemployment and increased tax rates caused an explosive rise in red private debt, as citizens were unable to meet their obligations. Without extending to more details about the disastrous nature of the memorandum, a solution to what the JRC rightly requests does not exist, unless at least the payments of the debt relief were deferred until Greece was rescheduled. Only in this way could investment be made to increase productivity and wages, while private debt should be cut, even with regard to taxes, which would not worsen our country's net position and would not create problems. Because it is now right to substantiate what one says with examples, we will mention that Portugal in 2014 was just before its total economic and social collapse, because it had also adopted, on the basis of the Troika's mandate, the deadly austerity policy, the memoirs. Her government had completely abolished labour rights, continuously restricted the welfare state, sold out public enterprises, reduced wages and depleted pensions, resulting in a sharp increase in poverty and unemployment, as well as the mass migration of its young people. Her situation, however, changed radically after the 2015 elections, where the Portuguese, having been outraged by the government of their country, who had bent their heads and tolerated everything from Germany, voted for the former mayor of Lisbon. At that time everyone believed that the new government would not remain in power for more than a few months, while the representatives of the European Union warned it not to deviate from the austerity policy under any circumstances from the memoranda. At the same time, the President of the country claimed that the non-implementation of the economic policy imposed by the troika would pose a risk to its national security, while trying to maintain the previous government in power and threatening the prospect of the Eurozone expulsion of Portugal. In addition, Mr Siomple said that Portugal would make a big mistake if it did not comply with what he promised, saying that he would have to submit a request for the adoption of a new programme - a second memorandum, namely - since otherwise he would not be able to avoid bankruptcy. Something reminds us of all this. Her new government, however, completely indifferent to the German suggestions, immediately increased the wages and pensions that had been reduced by the previous government, while abolishing the tax increases, adopting only taxes on legacy and property for the highest income levels, having completely excluded HNVIA from ordinary people. Furthermore, it stopped the destructive privatisations, recalling that Portugal's public assets were sold out by the previous government at degrading prices. As the new Prime Minister had rightly said, it is a great mistake to think that it is possible to exalt the economy of a state with drastic wage cuts, with excessive cuts in the welfare state and with the sale of their silvers. The issue, of course, is not what he said, but what he finally managed, starting from the fact that in 2016, one year later, Portugal recorded the strongest growth rate of this century - as far as the country is concerned, of course - while in tourism he was destroying one record behind the other, with considerable differences from Greece, since with much lower arrivals it achieved a higher turnover. It has changed its economic and tourist model. All this and much more, despite the fact that the government has invested even more in the social state, having achieved a record time and with the opposite economic policy than Germany is demanding to transform a problematic state of Europe into an exemplary one, so that the Portuguese, among other things, can regain their national pride and dignity. In conclusion, I would like to say that perhaps the greatest success of Portugal and the political consensus that some parties were able to achieve together - on this left - is nothing other than the creation of conditions for returning its young people, who had massively left the country, especially the best trained, since it was impossible to survive. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President. After all, as the Ministry of Home Affairs said, only in this way can the demographic problem continue to develop and the economy will not collapse, but will not fall into theory, but by launching repatriation programmes for Portuguese people living in other states. From this example, it turns out that there are always solutions to the economy of a state, even at the edge of the cliff, as long as its government is capable, has its own plan and does not constantly bend its head, only concerned with itself and its own privileges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, too. Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has the floor since Merra25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, dear Mr Brutsi, because you said once again, as the entire government says, the government is starting evil - we would allegedly be fine, we would also have gone into a development path if this terrible virus had not come, and I would inform you that in the last quarter of 2019 our national income has been reduced by 274 million euros, while, Minister, during the year - I see that you are leaving, I know you are not on purpose, but I must say that - our investments have decreased from 14% of our national income, of GDP, to just 11%. In the first two months of 2020, in January and February, Minister, the Ministry of Finance remained 37% behind its budget targets. What were those objectives? The revenue from the taxes you've paid for these two months. And if I lie, or if I have wrong numbers, or if I say inaccurate, you will be seconded and I expect you to give your own numbers, say that the reduction of our income in the last quarter was not 254 million euros and say that it was not reduced from 14% in 2017 to 11% of our national income. Say it and we'll be happy to talk about it. So the herd was wrong, Minister, too long before the coronary came and rocked. As you know, the recession, as you know, because you are a very good economist, had returned long before the quarantine, as we have already told you since August in here and, of course, the Secretary of our party, Yiannis Varoufakis, a government like yours, which fails to predict the past - not the future - and to admit and evaluate what was going on in our economy before the new big recession hit us, is not a government that can under any circumstances manage our current drama. Ladies and gentlemen, you are all well aware of this, of the fact that in the last decade, the so-called'memorandum', labour rights have been completely deregulationd: the abolition of collective labour agreements, individual contracts, the lack of a Labour Inspectorate to control working conditions and the observance of the health and safety rules, and of course the great, great reproach of the so-called - thousands, millions of introductorys - of 'employers', a form of work which is not formally recognised as such and which therefore does not have rights and the people who work under these conditions are paid even below the lowest wages. So the tactics of the socially beneficial work that is being done in our public service have its roots - where else? - "Stage" of the European Union and Costas Simitis, an extremist neoliberal institution of the European Union which, during the years of our memoranda, continues to be used unregulatedly and - let me say - is unregulated by the governments of the New Democracy, the Change Movement and SYRIZA, solely for micro-party reasons. The new data with this kind of work is that workers are no longer called workers, but 'beneficiaries'. That's not a notebook! What does it mean by being called "beneficiaries"? It involves circumvention of any sectoral, even operational, since they are paid only with predetermined and non-negotiable remuneration, they have no right of trade union representation, they are not entitled to strike, they are not entitled to benefits, benefits, three-year unhealthy, etc. No right at all is, precisely because these people are not counted, they are not considered as workers, but 'beneficiaries', which meet fixed and lasting needs in public bodies with hunger wages, thus creating a dystopical dynamic as a whole in our public sector, where workers are now occasionally 'beneficiaries' without voice, without rights and without demands. Merra25 stands firmly and with all its forces towards these working practices and the drunken movements of the Memorandum of Political Persons, which is trying to make them a working regularity in our public sector. Workers, ladies and gentlemen, are not 'beneficiaries', the state does nothing to them. They provide their fine work by serving us, the citizens. The solution, of course, can only be one: the abolition of all these shameful, hard-class working practices and the recruitment of permanent staff to the public. The work, ladies and gentlemen, is neither a favour nor a reward for money. We are on the side of the workers who want the Memorandum of Arc to convince us that they are 'beneficiaries'. Your "benefit", ladies and gentlemen, are in fact exploiting our fellow men and is a cruel and inhuman challenge to reversal the roles by the name you dared to render them. You are the perpetrators who have the courage to claim that they have been and continue to be beneficial to their defenseless victims. You of PASOK, who have instituted this reproach, you of SYRIZA, who have allowed this reproach to continue, and you of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who you are still maintaining it, I believe that all together should be ashamed. In no case should we neglect the long-term unemployed too. According to OAED figures - it is not our OAED, it is state-owned - our long-term unemployed citizens amount to about half a million, while only thirty thousand of them receive the "weapon" EUR 200 a month. In other words, only thirty thousand are entitled to long-term unemployment benefits. Therefore, according to the OAED, not with me, there are four hundred seventy thousand long-term unemployed who do not receive at all any kind of aid or aid. In the course of the pandemic, the government, in the context of its communication policy, has, of course, given exceptional allowances to a small, minimal part of the long-term unemployed, to these thirty thousand unemployed. However, until now, four hundred whole thousands of our fellow humans, who are not able for various reasons to work, have not received or planned to receive any aid at all. And we ask you: How do you expect these people to survive? Don't you care if they're gonna die? Of course, I will not fail to mention once again the artists and workers in art and culture, all these people who, because of the pandemic, have been forced into unemployment and for whom no light seems at the end of any tunnels, since the New Democracy Government is very afraid not to count them as an important part of our society. It is now more than necessary for this government to finally focus on reality, finally to discuss with the representatives and institutions of artists and workers in our culture, finally to understand the depth of the crisis that is plagued by our industry and not to try with semi-metres, announcements of communism and arrogance to deal with the situation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Their artists and partners, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, are our fellow citizens, they do not practice their hobby and they need the state's immediate help, after it closed down first from all the premises of their own work until they return to work again. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing with this - just yesterday in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, of which I have the honour of participating, your rapporteur, the majority, said that for you, for the New Democracy Government, culture is the comparative advantage that our country has in relation to other countries. I would therefore like to inform the Government and Mr Mitsotakis personally of this step, now, that if you do not at last do something really fast, our national comparative advantage is in direct danger of dying us out of hunger. Thank you very much, Mr President, and tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u41	From the honourable Members, Mr Katsotis has the right of dentistry. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Today the parties' policies have been developed, and whoever hears us can see who is supporting capital and who is working, who puts the workers' needs ahead and who makes the profits of capital. Theories have been developed very old and presented as a one-way path, that capitalist growth will bring prosperity to workers, that it can also gain capital and the worker. As a representative of employers, the Minister brought their answers to the JRC's question. Enterprise workers listen to the same thing in every attempt to maintain wages, rights, to claim an increase. "We can't go out, we can't stand, we'll close" and other things we've heard here today. Minister, the surprise would be if you accepted the PAM. The surprise would be if you did not support the unscrupulous leadership of the GFCM and the other institutions, as you say. However, you must know that the trade unions that are grouping together in the PAM have the acceptance of workers - many of them voting for New Democracy - because the PAMF defends itself with many sacrifices, as always, the needs of the workers, the people, under employers' and state terrorism and violence. Underneath it, we're organizing the wrestling. Obstacle to class struggle can't be put. The announcements on the reduction of trade liberties will be against all workers. Those who voted for the New Democracy, Mr. Bukkoro, do not give a certificate of charity. They correct their vote by participating in the games. From the conversation, what is confirmed? That the measures in the memorandum, which you said were temporary, are considered permanent and that all of this corrected pathogens. "The demands of the JRC are minced," the government says. But what we're bringing today for discussion didn't apply before the crisis? Tell me one that didn't apply before the crisis. Wasn't that the minimum wage of EUR 751? There were no collective agreements in the branches? Wasn't there the thirteenth and fourteenth wages? Wasn't the grant of the unemployed greater in duration and amount? All the things you've allegedly abolished as temporary, now you're characterizing them as pathogens. But let's see where your charity policy has led. Is it true to protect the income of the people's people, when three million sixty thousand ninety thousand, 30% of the country's population, is at risk of poverty and exclusion based on data from ELSTAT's income survey and living conditions, Minister, in 2019? Imagine 2020, if we now had the evidence, what explosive situation would there be, when 37.7% of the poor households indicate that they lack sufficient nutrition, when 64.8% of the poor households do not have a great deal of difficulty in meeting their usual needs with their total monthly or weekly income, when 58.6% of the poor families say it is difficult to pay in time for fixed accounts, such as electricity, water, gas, when 73% of the poor households, but also 42.2% who do not declare poor, state financial difficulty in meeting emergencies? The evidence is shocking! The deterioration of the position of the populace workers is a birth of the policy of the governments of the New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK, the Change Movement. She smashed wages, pensions, legitimized the full flexibility, the working middle ages, robbed with carpets and taxes any popular income. Your policy does not guarantee the minimum coverage of the needs of a working people's family. You have put greater obstacles to class struggle and minimum wage claim as a basis for meeting basic needs and claiming better wages in branches. The Minister will formulate the lowest wage with the suggestion of employers' representatives and on the basis of ensuring increased profitability. Even this arrangement has been 'frozen' and you have not formed a new inferior wage. The minimum wage throughout the post-war period, as I said at the outset, was the basis for formulating sectoral collective agreements, and the wages of the workers of all sectors were determined. That's what you abolished. You want the minimum guaranteed income as a basis. It is characteristic that 12% of workers are paid 200 euros, as is the minimum guaranteed income. What does the Pissaridis Committee propose for the minimum wage? To be determined firmly by the State rather than by negotiations between workers and employers. That's what the report says. To be binding on the government by a three-year expert board. The experts are those of BSE, SETE etc. The amount of non-associated benefits, pensions and various transfers by the State. The Committee shall raise a question of reducing the 20 allowances and pension benefits typically linked to the minimum wage. The JRC, with continuous proposals of laws, amendments and in any other way, claims to protect the incomes of the working people's families. The Government of New Democracy, like the previous SYRIZA, rejected them because they have a single strategy, with any differences, capitalist growth, ensuring the profitability of business groups. A prerequisite is the increasingly cheaper labour force. In front of the employee's "profit or needs" dilemma, you are the one with the profits. The JRC today brings these claims that we have developed enough and calls on the workers, the unemployed, the self-employed, and especially young people and young people to make their own case of organising the struggle to satisfy their current needs, while neglecting those who prevent it, capital, their political staff and the leadership of compromised trade unions. In this fight, the JRC will give all its powers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u43	The Minister has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by responding to some of these issues which have been raised by Members of Parliament and Parliament's representatives and by the questionable Member of the Communist Party, Mr Katsotis. Mr Katsotis, I would like to say that, as this debate is taking place, the very important issue of labour, workers and the labour market - we will agree on it - conflict two different worlds, two different political approaches. Don't forget 'yes', because it won't interest you in the end. One point, our view, our position - political, economic and social - is that which has been confirmed historically, politically, globally in the developed world. This model of economic and social policy that exists in Greece, which has been implemented by urban parties, as you say, especially by our own party, New Democracy, is what exists in the developed world, which creates people who want to create, produce, create, create policies that protect the weak, who increase the standard of living. This is the one side. The other side is your side, which unfortunately does not exist for you anywhere in the world. I have often asked you to tell me what you say to which country they apply. There's no country! Secondly, you have brought me a proposal today. I said we accept her well-meaningly, welcome. It's not how much you're saying, it's where we're going to find the money. The conclusion is that your own proposal, although you want it to be implemented, is certain that it would lead to workers who are impoverished and to workers with a pile. That is the reality, whether we want it or not. In addition to this debate which is taking place in the House, people are listening to us - not now, political debates over time - which is why they do not trust you. Nor does the world of work trust you, because he knows that with the New Democracy, with our policies, he has a future and a hope and a prospect to improve his wages and find work and raise his standard of living. That's our difference. Secondly, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, the representative of SYRIZA, is absent, and I do not know why in such a debate on labour. So I answer directly to her that she must be careful, because now SYRIZA is not a criminal but a political past. He ruled four and a half years. I've been picking up on the side of Varoufakis for the first six months. They ruled together. The catastrophic results have been seen with closed banks, the loss of billions of euros from Greek pockets because of this asynchronous policy. But I'm going to SYRIZA's side. Let's remember. Is Mrs. Xenogiannakopoulos talking about pro-working policy, SYRIZA? Let me tell you a few things which have a value for historical memory in this Chamber. SYRIZA brought the inconceivable law of total release of team redundancies. SYRIZA did it. Where's SYRIZA talking? Abstentions. It's okay, we're moving on. SYRIZA is the party that said about the minimum wage, to get the elections, that he will take him with a law and an article at 751 euros. Is there someone in this room who doesn't remember it? And the employees of this House, everyone remembers it. At 751 euros the next day. He did? Oh, no. He maintained the Anti-Fraud Law, Brutsi, Law No 4172/13, which is a right law, a law which has the framework that Europe is currently discussing to bring the minimum wage into line with the directive. On the day I brought the law he came out across the Syntagma Square and protested that he would be abolished and not only did he abolish it, but he applied it with a delay. In fact, when he brought him to Parliament in 2019 to be implemented, Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA Members applauded and said, "Thank you to the SYRIZA MPs who applaud the Brutsi Act", who said they would abolish it. This law is in a discussion process in Europe. Very briefly, in 2021, it will also be discussed in the Greek Parliament. Thirdly, SYRIZA, who supposedly has this charitable person, as soon as the day before yesterday, in this House, for reasons of petty, which the New Democracy's party has never done, for the yacht, did not vote for three top policies. It did not vote for the hundreds of thousands of jobs, which is a very important tool that is now being exploited by the Ministry of Labour and which is a tool that will remain. It turns out it's one of the best tools, because it's too flexible in the "ERGAN". Fifteen thousand recruits have been made in the pandemic. Secondly, it did not vote for the abolition of the ENPI on the outermost islands of our country. How do you explain that? On the remote islands of our country SYRIZA did not vote for the abolition of ENPIA. As soon as yesterday, the major problem was not to vote - and of course the JRC - to reduce insurance contributions by 3.9 points cumulatively from 1 to 2021 which is increasing to two million employees. Small, specific, to others more, to others less, but it also gives an increase in businesses, respectively, gives oxygen and a breath of income. That is not even what they voted on. This is SYRIZA, assessed by the world in the recent elections. He said Mr. Loverdos, I remember the lockdown. SYRIZA brought it the lockdown that was yelling and whistling indifferently. In any case, we're all judged. We, at least every four years in the elections, have an identity policy, we have credibility in what we say and what we mean, it is our ideology, it is our principles, it is our values and we are proud of it and it has been confirmed globally. We are now going to the issue which concerns the part of the protection of the citizens which has been loudly and often heard. No one said that we claim perfect or infallible. I didn't show here that the Ministry of Labour and the government did everything perfectly. We say, however, that as compared to all the other European countries in a pandemic, unprecedented situation, we have implemented policies and followed a road map of policies and actions confirmed by the European Commission itself as the country with the best European practices. Are you questioning that? European texts are, in Greece, comparable. Greece was the country that took the most effective measures and actions to maintain jobs. And not only did the European Commission confirm it, but it was confirmed by the leading economists of the World Bank, who say in the title I read just before the Step of the House: 'Here is Greece. If a country wants to take measures in the period of COVID -19, let's see the example of Greece." I didn't say anything we were talking about. The whole world says so. I move on to the issue of policies for the protection of workers, the weak. Look. Because we know ourselves very much and history is written politically with acts and works, which Mr Loverd also says and I agree with him, at least let us keep what is called honesty in relations, and let us say things as they are. Me and 2012-2014 and now I have never worked petty. I recognize the good, even though the previous ones did it from me, which I maintain. I've said it about the law of insurance. What was good was maintained by Law 3863/10 and subsequent laws. But here, one cannot ignore the fact that the minimum guaranteed income, which is the electronic framework, the "wield" to protect the weak, was established by the New Democracy, the conflict then with PASOK, in 2013. I, Minister, for having brought it to Greece with a delay today, but we have brought it the best possible. The monthly results are here. It is worth it to see what the Greek state pays for benefits for the protection of the weak. Child benefit, it's called A21. In 2013, it was created for days at the Ministry of Labour 944.500,000 annually, it concerns seven hundred and ninety thousand families. The birth allowance now the Mitsotakis government - the Prime Minister himself announced - 123,000,000, ten three thousand children, births. The take-off allowance now, new. The housing allowance was brought by SYRIZA. Social solidarity allowance, minimum guaranteed income, two hundred two thousand sixty-two households, four hundred thousand recipients, our weak fellow citizens, 680,000 euros. Here are policies for protecting the weak. Indeed today with this social policy that we have shaped in recent years, there is no uncovered citizen in Greece saying 'I cannot find any protection of income or housing' and stay on the road. I should like to close up with the question of insurance and pensions. Mr. Loverdo, I'd like to hang up with you. Look. You have chosen a Minister of Labour, you are an experienced parliamentary official and here because you are honest many times, I want to look into each other's eyes to admit a few things. One of the diseases of our country's insurance system - I am not saying the period I took over, which has kept many things, I fought them by 2015, you know, we have said it before - are the outstanding pensions. The outstanding pensions are a disease of fifty years. I've been committed since 2014 that this thing I'm going to deal with. I repeat, I may get bored, but it's important that we talk about it again. In 2014, “ATLAS” was prepared. I handed him over to SYRIZA. On the day of receipt-delivery to the Ministry, the new Minister of Labour told me that pensions should not come out electronically, they should go out handwritten and "saved" the "ATLAS" system. The digital pension from 1-1-2017 could have been applied. He didn't do it, Mr. President. It would be an opportunity for SYRIZA to "cut the ribbon". It was cut by Mr. Mitsotakis. The system started to function from 17-4-2020 and completed, Mr. Loverdos, at 31-12-2021. The announcement is public. It's not a simple platform or a simple application. The digital pension “ATLAS” is a major reform of the Greek state, covering all new pensions. Today, OGA pensions and widow's pensions come out in a second. Somebody should have told you. I'm resuming the program. The pensions of doctors and invalidity pensions in March 2021. In September 2021 public and private employees and engineers and in December 2021, 85% of pensions with lawyers, self-employed and journalists are completed. And the cycle of suffering for the young closes. For the old ones, the desire to "Brutsi, you made the new ones, did you fix this with Mitsotakis, revolution, what about the old ones?" Indeed, it's a revolution! We're solving a problem. Because, as you understand, since the tank will not accept any new ones, as they will automatically come out, we will only have the old ones. So I say to you, Mr Loverdo, that our aim is - and we will do our utmost, we have already started reorganisation - what has not been done for fifty years to end this in 2021. It is a goal, a pursuit, and the outstanding overdue basic pensions end in 2021. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This is an achievement. I'm sure you'll recognize it. It is an achievement that must be embraced and supported by everyone. And I say it in a pandemic period. Because with the "ATLAS" we presented for the first time, Mr. Loverdos, for the first time every month, they will come out in public and the Greeks will now know how many pensions this way, in order for the world to get them, how many late pensions we have and how many have been awarded.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u45	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u46	I shall conclude, Mr President. There will be no more suffering from parliamentary control, because they will be presented every month. It now seemed to us to understand that, although due to the pandemic and lockdown, the employees of the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Labour, the National Social Security Agency, do not go to work and, therefore, we have a problem, the first nine months came out of twenty-five hundred pensions more than in the nine months of 2019, due to the reorganisation of the system, due to the good commander and the good service factors we inherited and, indeed, they do do their best. I would therefore like to say this to Parliament. I understand the anxiety. I've learned in my life to take burdens and responsibilities on me. I take the weights of fifty years of age, the health status of the insurance system, which in the latter part is called 'extended pensions' and 'vote pensions'. One was launched. The other, despite Lockdown, with the help of the employees of the reorganisation of the system by the end of 2021, we hope to have completed it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, I would like to say something about a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u48	Here you go, Mr. Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u49	The Minister let it be understood that he was running the Mera25 with SYRIZA in the first half of 2015. I imagine the Greek people know that we have not made any electoral cooperation. There wasn't the Mera25 back then. Therefore, this permanent tactic of the rulers to speak as Mr. Lebanese said yesterday that "your idea of taxing Google and Youtube platforms, but Mr. Varoufakis is an old-fashioned character and what to do, good ideas from scoundrels don't make us," it's not a way to talk. Improve him! Really, it's a way to get us back to the Middle Ages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u50	We all know that Mr Varoufakis in the first half of 2015 was Minister of Finance and that Merra25 was founded after he left. So there could be no electoral co-operation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u51	He was a negotiator, and during...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u52	Yeah, what it was. But it has nothing to do with Mera25...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u53	But now Mr. Brutsey just said we were...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u54	It's clean. Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u55	I shall begin with a historic regression, Mr President, and Mr Minister. In May 1886, in Chicago, the US, together with its state, murdered the pioneer workers of the newly established labour movement. Why were they fighting? They fought for eight hours of work, eight hours of rest and eight hours of leisure a day. This is the eighth hour, not yours, the "miamia", the time arrangement on an annual, six-month or even monthly basis, which really destroys this objective. When was this eight hours overturned, the conquest that was then with the struggles and the blood of the working class? After a hundred and ten years, after overthrowing socialism, Minister, as the sweater of the world's labour conquests and rights began to "explore the world's labour market and rights throughout the modern developed world, which you admire. That's the one. Secondly, the complexes - Mr Minister, you are probably confused - are the reality experienced by our people and peoples worldwide because of your own policies and your governments because of the system in which we live. The complexes are the same of the capitalist system, Minister, they are the same of the developed world that you admire. On the substance, let us stop this ping-pong between you and SYRIZA, for who took the most anti-virtual measures. You both took them, you both retain these anti-optic measures. Don't have as a pretext SYRIZA took it. And why don't you, for example, abolish team redundancies if you want? You reach the point, as the nuns did in the Middle Ages, baptizing the fish, saying what? That the reduction in insurance contributions, i.e. the reduction in the average wage of the worker, is an increase in the wages of the workers. If that's possible! We'll forget the mere math we knew. I shall conclude, Mr President, with this. "Where will you get the money?". You keep asking. Can I ask you something, Minister? Do you remember a very successful cartoon movie "Linking meatballs"? It's not raining any money from the sky, Minister. But you and your government, as well as your world-wide, tens of trillions of euros and dollars, give them to business groups. Where is the European Union and the other governments? Of the peoples all over the world, whom you'll take to tax them. That's where you find them, so you can give them to the business groups. You don't just give these funding. What else do you give? This working jungle, which you have all shaped together and does not have a father. What else do you give? Jampa workers still work in business groups, new town planning "cut and sewn" in their own interests, privatisations and a number of other things. This confirms the parasitic role of the capitalist monopolies and their unsatisfactory thirst for profit, which often leads them to wars even at the expense of the peoples. Mr President, I shall conclude by saying that we can agree from now on. Who produces wealth? Workers produce wealth. In your goddess that you believe, in your own system, what you admire, the wealth that their workers produce are peculiar to a handful of capitalists. What the JRC wants is for this wealth to return to workers to meet their needs. The problem is the ownership of the means of production. When the means of production become social property, the worker will really be able to enjoy the wealth he produces and meet his modern needs. It is therefore an adversary for the workers to act on the monopolies. In this fight, the aim - demands are a means of counteracting the endless anti-government policy of all governments, but also a means of temporarily improving their position. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u56	Thank you too, Mr. Karathanasopou. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. I take this opportunity to continue from what Mr Karathanasopoulos said, the political, ideological and awe-inspiring. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, I asked some questions: How much do you cost your question? Where will you get the money and what country does this policy apply? None of the three of you answered. Invoke the same capital and the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u58	We've answered you. You didn't hear the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u59	I insist that our political position, our worthy system, our social and political theory is universally justified in Europe, throughout the developed world, and yours has no scope anywhere in the world. Because the question 'Where do you apply what you say?', the answer is that there is nowhere to be found. So I welcome your question. There was a nice dialogue with arguments. Everyone is assessed by society, by the world, by the workers who see us and watch us by the citizens. Just two clarifications, because I don't want things to go unanswered. You talked about the communist party mathematics. You're not doing well. When insurance contributions are reduced, Mr Karathanasopoulos, the so-called 'non-wage cost', that is where two benefit. The employer and the worker and the money go to their pockets.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u60	He's benefiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u61	I proved it with arguments, with figures in particular. I can only repeat two examples. If someone has a $1,000 salary, the benefit is EUR 318 for the company and EUR 228 for the worker. Are you questioning that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u62	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u63	Are you questioning that? I don't know where you did math and you got high school or high school education. I can't believe it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u64	Where did you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u65	Secondly, on the issue that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u66	When the average pay...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u67	Mr Karthanasopoulos, on the question of the settlement of working time, I inform you that I submit to Parliament: The adjustment of working time is already the legislation of the Greek State since 2010. What laws affect it? Law 3869/2010, L.4152/2013, L.4224/2013, L.4307/2014, L.4321/2015, L.4354/2015. So SYRIZA, huh? On SYRIZA. I continue: Law 4389/2016, Law 4588/2017, Law 4669/2017, Law 4605/2019 and Law 4611/2019. SYRIZA's last law didn't touch it. And I am amazed to hear you today suppress with the settlement of the working time that is the law of the State ten years. Really, why don't you look at SYRIZA's side? Why don't you look at SYRIZA's side?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u68	Are you telling us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u69	Anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u70	We're serious!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u71	So far we've done fine. We don't have to ruin it now. I understand all of you, but please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u72	I want us to close down nicely. We have had a quality debate, a democratic debate, and I want to close what is coming. So what we have said is that a new working law, which will take advantage of the best European prospects, is a law that focuses on the worker, with the aim of improving the worker's position, increasing jobs, increasing his wages. That's our policy. We're doing this in particular. I know you'll object, I know you'll object. We will also change the trade union law in the form of respect for Law 1264. After thirty-nine years it takes a change. But you should know that things will also change within trade union law. We will now bring transparency to trade, because we believe in healthy, undeclared and unfavourable trade unionism. If you think there should be union seals, which force their opinion, you are far out of sight. There is democracy, there are laws, there are procedures, there are institutions and they will be respected in full. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this beautiful debate we have had and I thank the Communist Party which has given me the opportunity to quote the policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u73	And we, Mr President, want to thank the Minister for confirming us, and we tell him not to scratch on the slut!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u74	Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the number 3/326-10-2020 topical question is adjourned: 'To protect workers' incomes, increase basic wages, restore TSEs'. At this point we will take a 10-minute break (10") to clear the Chamber and continue with the legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Modernisation of Spatial and Urban Law". Before giving the floor to the President of the Change Movement, Mrs Gennimata, the Minister will take the floor for a minute to make a statement. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that the government cannot accept any of the amendments tabled by my colleagues. With a lot of them we are, I can say, to a certain extent agreed, but it needs further processing. It would be hasty if we were to go on adopting amendments under these circumstances, much more so that there is a very large number of amendments and such a move would give rise to an alpine impression, I believe, to all those who are following this House. I would therefore like to explain this, so that Members know how we are going to move. The amendments and the amendments tabled by the opposition have also been tabled yesterday, in fact, either directly or indirectly, and have been tabled. If necessary, we can come back politically.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u77	Do you reject this amendment on the recent papers of the ESS doctors, because of pandemic, and do you reject it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u78	I repeat, everything I have told you is a general principle. The rest will be dealt with by individual ministries if they concern individual ministries.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, may I ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u81	You can't ask. Mr. Femelle, I'm sorry, but you've been a minister. You don't know the procedure, I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u82	Will you let me ask about the law school, if you'll bring them in soon?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Famelle, we finally have to respect the procedure. Mrs Gennimatas, President of the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked the Prime Minister a few days ago to come to the House to answer us on critical issues relating to the development of the pandemic and obviously governmental manipulations. He has avoided it, without even a real excuse. It didn't surprise me. It is obvious that Mr Mitsotakis denies dialogue and answers to the difficult issues and chooses the way with announcements and proclamations. The fact, however, is that the second and most threatening wave of pandemic keeps and forms extremely difficult conditions for the Greek people. The government's responsibilities are great, and we will not stop showing them, because that is exactly how we prevent situations, which may have a great deal of health and even people's lives. The climate of reassurance and relaxation, which the government itself has produced for micro-party benefits, has often said that it was the first step that opened the way to a series of mistakes that led us to the point where we are today. They opened the country without any plan, and in particular our land borders were a clear vine, while neighbouring Balkan countries were flirting with coronary cases. They collated in public transport and in schools and lost valuable preparation time in the summer, so the new wave found the country intact, without the necessary reinforcement of the National Health System, without reliable and organised network of mass tests and effective tracking. They literally left the citizens at the mercy of the disgrace of private laboratories for the tests, which they did not even certified. There is currently no access of the scientific community, of the parties and of the citizens to very important health and epidemiological data. The control of the information chosen by the government raises even questions of democracy. They neither managed to record the real epidemiological situation in each region since, as it turns out, there was no complete patient register. Justice must investigate in depth how and what interests the competitions of the authorities responsible for managing the data at the end of public health served. Inefficiency, opacity and concentration cultivate suspicion, but also the breakdown of confidence, which are of course intensified by new publications on double-books of cases, i.e. for an unreliable register of patients, for opaque tests and against the public interest. The Greek people are particularly concerned, as the Greek citizens know, and the very serious and substantiated proposals that we have put forward for the problems we are facing today. I am, in particular today, in the safe opening, which is obviously the government has no plans to present. We have a comprehensive proposal. The key is mass tests and proper tracking. Thus, while maintaining the general measures, i.e. mask, movement restriction, teleworking, we can gradually release areas or even whole regions of the country that are obviously not epidemiologically charged. Mass tests per county and repeat them after twenty days. Thus, the state is given a full health picture and can seal each area, allowing opening within it. If the border counties are improved, then the opening can be extended, for example, to the whole region or to specific areas. The mass tests are performed with care for primary health care, with mobile workshops, even at home or in special structures, but with appointments. Thus, we can have a full picture of each region and gradually liberate social and economic activities. We therefore call on the government to adopt our strategy for testing, tracking, isolation and breathing the citizens, but also for the economy, a strategy that finds more and more scientists who are in agreement with this in public. At the same time, we call on the Government at the same time to finally strengthen the National Health System with permanent recruitment, which must be accelerated, with the permanentisation of the subsidiary - not all this human potential must be lost from the ESS - and of course, with the practical recognition of the offer of its people to the heavy, unhealthy and Christmas gifts. We call on the government to carry out certification of private laboratories for the tests, which the EOPY must finally cover. Finally, because every serious debate on the new ESS requires a clear, well-known, comprehensive plan, we call on Mr Mitsotakis, who, every time a pandemic wave comes, remembers that he has to build a new ESS, to present his comprehensive proposal. We have said it publicly and have formally tabled it in the Minutes of the House. Of course, the government must ensure that the population is properly and efficiently vaccinated and without suffering when the vaccine reaches our country. We've talked many times about free vaccine and special vaccination campaign. We, the members of the Greek Parliament, can set an example. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undoubtedly necessary to modernise spatial and urban legislation. We need simple and stable rules and facilities for citizens and investment, ensuring the protection of the environment. In order to be a time-lag, not to change every time ministers and governments change, these arrangements should be a product of broader consensus and dialogue. Unfortunately, for Mr. Mitsotakis, these are fine letters. Here too, arrogance and authoritarianism, debates with fast track procedures, quickly to end, bills coming to Parliament other than those that have been consulted - thirty articles added to it - and rain amendments - at least ten, may have been overcome by this time when we are talking - and of course very serious amendments to the table and five. This third-world situation you call it a good legacy. This bill, Minister, is neither a reform nor a modernisation. It does not protect the environment or the citizens' property rights and certainly does not contribute substantially to sustainable development. I'm standing on some critical issues. The Minister himself forbids himself to a great peasant. Congratulations! Instead of upgrading the Environmental Inspectorate to an independent authority, you degrade them to a bureaucratic agency. We say that, yes, we need to get order into the off-project real estate, we need to abolish the off-project construction as it is today. But how? In an organised way, with functional transitional provisions and not suffocating deadlines for local urban planning plans. With the arrangements you bring, the big ones rub their hands. The small owners will be found with worthless parcels, which the big ones will get for a piece of bread. It is a clear contradiction to the cruelty for the small owners, but at the same time the premium for large tourist accommodation in the off-site construction project. It is effectively abolished outside the structure plan only for young people. Of course, it is not a time for the exceptional gifts for the banks. Finally, it is not possible to ensure that the particular conditions of each mountain and island region, as laid down in the Constitution, are not guaranteed. The insularity clause may not only relate to Mykonos and Santorini. We are voting against this bill, ladies and gentlemen, which reflects the deeply conservative nature of government policy. 'Everything for the big, on the margins of small, many': this is your motto and that is certainly not a reform. Ladies and gentlemen, through a last-minute amendment - as usual - the Minister is changing the entire energy environment by turning the energy communities into small producers. The proposed measures exclude small and medium-sized producers of renewable energy sources from the country's energy map. With effect from 1 January 2021, all new applications for small photovoltaic outputs of less than 500 kW shall be required to participate in a competitive process vis-à-vis majorities, without any specific favourable forecasts for them, thus pre-determined to exclude them. The government with these arrangements changes the framework that the Minister himself shaped just five months ago by his own ministerial decision. Then, as he said, he gave a clear two-year horizon to small and medium-sized investors, calling on them even to invest. This resulted in tens of thousands of investors involved in long-term PV licensing processes. These people now, with the sudden change in the framework brought by the government, are completely locked up. If their requests are not examined by the administrators and by the AIA and a guarantor of origin within 2021 and even within the first half of 2021 for the energy communities, they shall be brought to another less favourable status. The two years became one and only six months for the energy communities. These negative and unacceptable limits should be reviewed. To extend for at least six months the final date for the completeness of the dossiers and completely abolish the second final date for the energy communities. Folders submitted in full must be examined and answered. The role of the state is not to punish citizens because of the failure of the services to do their job! The cherry on the cake, which shows the Minister's mosque for energy communities, is that it prohibits citizens from participating in more than two, and indeed with retroactive power, no matter whether they lose the money they put in. The target is obvious, to exclude small and medium-sized producers from RES investments. And you're not confined here, but you're hitting those who've tolerated it so far, and you're imposing them an extra contribution to cover your own wrong manipulations that have thrown out the special account. This amendment has never been tabled to the Committee on Production and Trade and it is coming to plenary lately. So far we have had some leaks and a press release. However, it is clear that the services and business deals that are behind these decisions by the Government force the New Democracy to avoid dialogue and any control, even that of Parliament. We are, then, completely against all these drones and we are here, the Change Movement, to put a brake on this conservative regression. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Madam President of the Change Movement. I'd first like to make two announcements and then I'll tell you how to proceed with the process. I read, in the order in which they were tabled, proposals for roll-call vote. The Group of the Communist Party of Greece tabled a proposal for a roll-call vote in principle, on Articles 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40 and on Amendment No 68 of the draft law. Secondly, a proposal for a roll-call vote was tabled by colleagues from the SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance in principle, on Articles 14, 34, 35, 37, 40, 95, 128 and on Amendments (a) with a general number of 627 and a special number 68 and (b) with a general number of 625 and a special 66. Immediately there will be two colleagues, Mr Karasmanis, who is already connected via Webex, and Mr Constantopoulos, who will speak in a natural presence. Then, as Mrs Manolakos raised yesterday, which called for the position of the rapporteurs, after consulting the President of Parliament - in fact, I happened to be the President-in-Office again - to follow the position of the rapporteurs and the special speakers for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u86	We parliamentary representatives will not speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u87	Parliamentary representatives will be able to speak for three minutes, that is, three minutes. That's always true. We're not talking about it. The rights of the parliamentary representatives are not lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u88	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, may I ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u90	Question on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u91	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u92	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u93	Because, Mr President, it is obviously quite right for the rapporteurs to speak - I will not disagree - and the Members of Parliament - if you will excuse me, I am not interfering with this - there will obviously be no secondary - closure - on the part of the rapporteurs and the special speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u94	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u95	Good. So we shall also be tabling the conclusions of the debate. Therefore, I do not know whether we should add a little more to ten minutes, but you will understand that in the conclusions how to come up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, I can have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u97	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u98	Give us a little picture of the process. You have done so very clearly. But, in turn, I have a question. Will they speak first - I do not know if they want - the ministers, the rapporteurs and then the representatives? How do you have that in mind?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u99	At the moment - I said it - both colleagues will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u100	Yeah, after the two colleagues?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u101	After both colleagues, the two rapporteurs and the four special speakers will speak in turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u102	And then the Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u103	The procedure will then be followed, as it will be.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u104	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u105	In other words, you may ask for the floor. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, who has not spoken at all, may request the floor. The Minister has always been able to intervene and place. So let us not waste any more time. I think it has been explained in the best way possible. We are starting with my colleague, Mr Karasmani, who also has the floor, through Webex, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the committee's meetings on the bill under discussion, and I confess that I was am surprised by the explosive reaction by the colleagues from the Officerial Repression, who have asked for a pandemic that the government should stop its legislative work, particularly their attempt to revive a climate of other times with references to EPE, to parties, i.e. during periods that were either young children or were not even born. Today, the Government is the New Democracy, the mediterranean party, and with principles from which the rejection of any extremeity or fanaticism, which believes in mild constructive, democratic dialogue, is the result. And they're asking that the House close down, that is to say, to get into the state. But life goes on. In this unprecedented health crisis, the government is facing it with due seriousness, doing what is humanely possible, in order to limit the side effects, losses, to substantially support households, businesses, productive classes and the market. At the same time, however, it continues its legislative work so that through innovative drafts of state-running legislation, it can provide solutions to chronic problems and diseases. In this context, the bill under discussion, which gives innovative solutions to strangles of decades, is also part of this. What is it doing with this bill? Efforts to invest and develop are crucial. It effectively protects the citizen's right to property, such as by transferring the building factor. The plots above the four acres are not affected by changes. For what is below four acres, a long time has been given for their owners to make use of them. Simplifies the issue of building permits with a drastic reduction in bureaucracy. A higher build-up factor is given for energy buildings. Incentives are provided to enhance accessibility for disabled people. Ladies and gentlemen, a society is judged and distinguished by its level of protection and facilities. And the bill gives this possibility. I consider it particularly important that the provision providing the possibility of compensation to owners of preserved buildings, so that our cultural heritage is protected, as well as the property. Because to date the maintenance of a maintained building automatically meant abandoning it because of the unbearable cost. It is a matter of particular concern to me, because it concerns the historical traditional settlement of Barossi in Edessa, precisely where the famous waterfalls of Edessa are. In 2012, a working group had been set up in order to redefined the legislative framework and to work out incentives that would contribute to the effective protection and enhancement of our cultural heritage and architecture. But this finding never came in the light of publicity. So to this day, this deterrent has remained for any purpose of restoration. It is sufficient to say that in Varossi to enable the owners of such buildings to repair them, money is needed with which they could buy one and two apartments, a reality that works as an absolute incentive and that is in a cross-sectional contrast with other European countries, such as France, for example, where the costs of maintenance and promotion of the maintained buildings are fully covered by the State. On the occasion of the amendment to the RES, I would like to point out that there are strong concerns among farmers, but also to farmers, for the conversion of land they use, into PV parks. This summer they were faced with the refusal of the landowners. They are rented to farmers for crop crops of cereals, cereals, and then for a symbolic rent they are grazed by farmers. Why are they worried? Because the owners had accepted and still take tempting proposals with very high rents to give these land to large companies - and some of them are also foreign - to turn them into photovoltaic parks. This massive uncontrolled shift threatens to deprive farmers and farmers of the necessary areas with what they self-evidently mean. I therefore consider that there should be an integrated plan for the growing areas that can be converted into PV parks. Good and holy and necessary energy planning, but not to the detriment of the productive classes of the primary sector. Because the pandemic has so far demonstrated the absolute need for our country's self-sufficiency in food products. We must therefore, with absolute realism, redefine the disposal of rural land, in order to maintain and strengthen the cohesion of the social fabric, that is, the survival of our society. We support the bill. I believe that in its implementation it will be judged in the future and it will be positively credited to the Ministry's leadership, as the notice of measure 8 has been positively endorsed by sub-measures 8.3 and 8.4 concerning investments in forest land with 128 million, which for four and a half years have been lagging, have remained unexploited, sparsely grounded in the Brussels Fund, with what this implies for the protection of the environment, our forests and, of course, with serious consequences for our economy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, too. Before I call on Mr Constantopoulos to say that colleagues of the Change Movement have also tabled a request for a roll-call vote on Articles 3, 11, 14, 33, 35, 124, 133 and on the amendment, with a general number of 627, and a specific 68 of the draft law. My colleague, Mr Konstantopoulos, has the floor from the Change Movement for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are debating today for the second day in plenary a bill which touches and affects - I would say - a large part of our society, which concerns the property owners. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that Greece, despite the severe economic crisis that has passed and experienced, has maintained ownership at high levels, reaching 74%, according to a study by Alpha Bank, and even the corresponding European average, does not exceed 65%. The high rate also proves the importance of the bill we are discussing about Greek society and the Greek family. However, this importance was not assessed as much as it should have been, ladies and gentlemen, by the government which brought a bill to the House for discussion in a preliminary manner, that is to say, without the opinion of all the parties involved, by the TEI to state that the bill overturns the property situation of thousands of small owners, in areas outside the plan. So he brought a bill without consultation and composition of opinions with local communities on spatial planning and town planning. First of all, there is the same logic of misrepresentation as by the previous government of SYRIZA - ANEL. I'd say they're on the same path of mistake. Besides, as soon as one leaves the wrong way, it's beneficial. The government, however, does not do so. So the term'reform' you mention, Mr Minister, does not really correspond. Ladies and gentlemen, the arrangements for out-of-plan construction are serious. The process of demarcating the newly demarcated settlements, i.e. settlements before the 1923s, is determined by a presidential decree, with inhabitants of less than two thousand. Basically, construction factors are changing in the off-project areas, bearing - I would say - the micro-owners in advance of fait accompli. So, ladies and gentlemen, small-scale owners with plots of less than eight hundred square meters, or thousands of two thousand square meters, should, within suffocating deadlines, take decisions, get permission and get into the construction process, and that, of course, if they want to save their property. So what does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? This means that some will lose their properties because they will simply not be able to respond to such suffocating natural frameworks, Minister, the cost of authorizing the construction of a new building, without, of course, the owner asking whether this is his priority or not. In this way, Minister, firstly, there are many serious problems created by the assessment of the property of small owners. Real estate, which is accounted for, I would say, as excellent and buildable with the corresponding valuation and guarantees have been provided for borrowers and loans, changed their status. That's what you keep. Secondly, it opens the lair between small and large owners, especially when there is proximity. Thus, some small owners will be forced to divest their land at exceptionally reduced prices for the benefit of the large owners, with which they are adjoining. There is therefore a question, Mr Minister, which needs a direct answer. With what right does the state, the current government, loses and minimizes the property of citizens and especially small owners? There should be a distinction between mainland and islands, which is not included in the bill. Because in the small islands, ladies and gentlemen, property does not exceed four acres, so the bill sets out practically many small plots or plots. In conclusion: an independent, comprehensive draft law on out-of-plan construction should therefore come. You don't. As far as local urban planning is concerned, there is the resources from the Recovery Fund to draw up five hundred local urban planning projects, a budget of about EUR 200 million, that is to say, reaching the country by 2028. Here, of course, a question arises: why has there not been an open dialogue with local communities on the spatial planning and urban planning of their area? What you have achieved, Minister, is to pass the deadline and, of course, what I say cannot be implemented, because of objective difficulties, when, for example, in many areas, the forest maps will not have been even approved. So go ahead with specific proposals. Priority has been given to areas where natural disasters have been observed in recent years, such as Aetolokarnania, Samos, Karditsa, Mandra and others. You also make commitments to increase the green rate per capita in Greek cities, thus approaching the European average. As far as marine planning is concerned, we are proposing that coastal zones be maintained within the scope of Law 4546/2018, that specific provisions should be laid down in the same law on the issue of land and sea interaction, of course, with the protection of the marine environment and of course of sustainable development. Strengthen the consultation in time and quality, involving the coastal and island municipalities and regions of the country. You referred to your strategy on land change. But how will this strategy be implemented, since what you described in both the spatial strategy and the local and specific projects are not binding? Minister, in Article 38 you have not set environmental criteria to link the classification of tourist accommodation to environmental protection, such as waste and waste water recycling, energy autonomy, energy saving programmes. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we consider it necessary with this bill to bring undeclared and unknown property to the municipalities of the country and not to the public when amending Law 2664/1998, and this is to be exploited by the municipalities for the creation of social housing, and the parcels to support coastal farmers in the region. Furthermore, institutionalise the contribution to the special account of social solidarity of generations from concessions of maritime areas for energy RES, wind parks, climate energy, in line with Law 4162/2013. I would remind you that it was one of the proposals of the PASOK law, which were voted in favour and made law. We also propose to facilitate the survival of the agricultural property in the agricultural photovoltaics and to introduce arrangements for restoring the injustices of the year 2013. To conclude, I would like to refer to the amendment that we have tabled on the unrestricted streams which, however, have been settled. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of demarcation is overcome, since the streams are no longer in existence because of the technical arrangement. Also, in order to resolve the problems created by the bill in the non-project construction, the Change Movement has tabled an amendment and we propose that applications for pre-approvals be made either for authorisations to build or for promotions of construction work that have already been submitted, to proceed and to be reviewed, in accordance with the provisions in force at the time of the application. Mr Minister, we ask you to accept the amendments we have tabled. We expect you to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, can we wait for the government to come?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u111	It would be nice to be here!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u112	We shall now proceed to the procedure, ladies and gentlemen, and we shall start with the rapporteur, Mr Stamenitis, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are completing today the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, aimed at modernising spatial and urban legislation in Greece. We must say that there has been a great debate both in the committees and in the House. There have been contradictions and that is natural. In conclusion, however, none of the citizens who have listened to the debates, but also by a majority of the bodies involved in the consultation, can deny that these are legislative changes which form a landscape in the spatial and urban planning that are taking Greece forward. And some in the opposition may want to put a negative mark on this initiative, probably to cover their own insufficiency, perhaps four and a half years. Eventually, however, the citizens who watched us, heard and learned that SYRIZA had not found, had committed no funding, not a single euro, for the preparation of local town plans. They had some thoughts - they only knew them - but nothing handcuffed. He also had no assignment for studying town planning. On the other hand, the laws he voted for, instead of solving problems, created new ones, through the gaps and ambiguities that today's legislation corrects. The conclusion that today's draft law is that we have a text that through amendments, supplements to existing provisions, but also introduce new regulations, protects the environment. Protects and gives value to property. It strengthens businesses and even strengthens organised entrepreneurship. With a look at the protection of the landscape and the natural environment, it restricts and attempts to put order on the great problem of public space, called outside construction. The unregulated out-of-build construction we want to eliminate, not the out-of-project project through local town planning projects. I'm sorry, that's two different concepts. You are wrongly confusing. You obviously have your purpose. We do not create any problem with small and medium-sized property, on the contrary, our arrangements protect their value, since all ownership does not always lose the right to build according to what local town plans will define. Do you disagree with that? You want the anarchy to continue? So, should anyone build where they want, whatever they want? You don't want local town plans to be defined, to have a class in construction? So populism? How far are you going to be? That's the left of progress, closes the eye on everyone for the pins? In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we can say that the legislative initiative of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy with fullness and targeted interventions creates a legislative tool that will close great loose ends, which will solve major problems in the field of spatial planning and town planning, the organisation of the public space. To conclude today, I should like to focus above all on the points on which the criticism of the Members of Parliament's delegation concerning the content of the amendments, but essentially the arrangements for limiting the non-build-up plan. And what we have not heard so many days about the amendments. But let's see what this is all about. Ladies and gentlemen, is it or is it not the New Democracy Government and the Ministry's leadership, which have set as one of the main objectives the deprivation of the country, and have presented the plan and the way it will be done? Were you the ones who started debilitating? Maybe, but in about it, we're watching. Well, you didn't have any planning and no programming. So what does the first article of the amendment do? It describes the regional units of Kozani and Florina in the region of Western Macedonia and the Municipality of Megaloupolis, in the region of Peloponnese as defoliation zones and nucleuses of the defoliation zones, lignite fields and lignite plants. That is to say, the foundations are being laid for the implementation of the planning of a fair transition by speeding up the preparation of specific urban plans in these areas and by establishing land uses. It clarifies the landscape of which investments and business activities can be developed, where and under which conditions. It is very essential - and we do not forget - that a programme is being carried out for workers, for whom you have never had any predictions. Do you see any mismatch of what we talked about with what we're doing? Tell us. Now let's go to the RES. Indeed, there is an emergency fee, but there is a deficit. There's no deficit? Where did he come from? It was created by the exceptional circumstances caused by the pandemic and the health crisis. You are deliberately overlooking that this is a European issue. The Minister will obviously say more today - because of the pandemic, the demand for electricity consumption has fallen. And the greater this demand reduction, the less the revenue. And it is true that electricity producers are being charged, but now, immediately and once, in order to deal with the problem, there are no more adverse consequences that will be burdened with in the future with worse. The Confederal Members of Parliament are on their way and say that we are making a policy - which is why the deficit has arisen - and now we are looking for the broken ones. It's not like that. This criticism does not really respond. You do not want to tell the truth because you obviously have to make criticism. You said a lot yesterday about PPC. But we told you yesterday, and we told you today. Are you talking about PPC? Are you entitled to talk about PPC, you who took it one step before the disaster? You insist that we use wrong data, but everyone knows well - and those who are in the Chamber and those who are listening to us - who have a bad relationship with numbers and are fighting with the truth. Even the age and quality of someone who has a fine you have changed to be okay in your history. Let's see now what happened with PPC to put things in a row. The SYRIZA government received the operation in 2014 with profits of EUR 90 million. He delivered it in 2019 with damages of EUR 900 million. She received it at a stock exchange value of approximately 1.9 billion in 2014 and delivered it to 300 million. He received it by recapitalisation of EUR 2 billion and delivered it with EUR 300 million. The government of New Democracy came and took steps. A year later PPC was upgraded by "Standard and Poor's", which proves that the choices of PPC's government and administration were correct. I come back and close with the reactions about the off-project construction that we have heard from all opposition parties. The Ministry's leadership is gradually moving ahead with a plan, with provision for the protection of the environment and the limitation of anarchy, outside the construction project. We put a class in the huge chaos with a plan, without surprise to the citizens with suffocating deadlines and times. We are adopting policies for Greece as they are in all the countries of the European Union. And here to say that, yes, you did not want the outside construction plan and the derogations, because the Left, as you say, is traditionally opposite, but you do not find anything positive about the arrangements made by the bill. And, of course, at the same time as the government, you are not doing anything about this. I think you're probably messed up somewhere. Ladies and gentlemen, society is being tested by the pandemic. The second wave is more aggressive. We've got more casualties. It is a given and undeniable that the priority right now for the government and for all of us is to tackle pandemic, to take measures to safeguard public health on the one hand and to support civil society on the other. I repeat, however, that the extraordinary and critical of the event was not an alibi at one time to stop the reforms that can and which, after all, must be done. And so it has to be, because we are here to take care of today, but also to provide for tomorrow. The pandemic will not always be here and Greece can and must go forward. By healing the wounds left by the health crisis, it is our duty to be ready for the next day. We will achieve this if we have more tools in our toolbox that favour growth, investment and can help the economy return to the pace and speed it had in the second half of 2019 and up to the appearance of the coronary. Such an effort is this bill for which - I repeat - it is difficult for any of the citizens who are watching us and the majority of the bodies will find reasons not to pass now. Mr Hatzidakis, the Undersecretaries, but also the general secretaries, as a whole, the government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis are credited today with another good bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, too, for keeping time. The rapporteur for SYRIZA will take the floor - the Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelos for ten minutes. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, I must admit that we did not have a constructive and effective debate in this bill and in the committees and in plenary. We had a bad conversation about a bad and dangerous bill. I have to say, Mr President, in conclusion, since we are closing the debate that we currently have a rough and legally incomplete bill. The government throughout this debate was left alone and revealed by all the opposition that the bill is unfair, it is counter-environmental, it is anti-developmental and anti-social and it affects and damages development. Unfortunately, the ministers have reached a hysterical stage in the debate. The reason why they are placed concerns only opposition. How many times our names were heard and SYRIZA's name is unprecedented. If you do a little bit of their speeches, I think you'll see that it's never happened before. However, they did not present the bill and we insist - and I believe that colleagues from the Opposition agree - that this bill has serious deficits and cannot be implemented beyond its political problems. They're dealing with us and they don't have their own bill. Let's see what they have to show up for? To present the serious mistakes and imperfections it has, the implementation problems? Still the legislators. We still do not know whether or not electronic identity will be on a private body. We're looking to find things in the legislature, and we haven't received them, and we're voting in a little bit. And I wonder: Didn't you see all the things that came out with the legislative, four, five months after you said you were consulting? They posted in August. You met with institutions in September, October. Why didn't you fix it? So here there is a serious problem of competence, a serious problem. There is a weakness in responding to the responsibilities that society has given you. It's not just that this is a total mess, we've moved on to another level. The phrase 'final mess' can no longer describe what is done at the Ministry. Let me say something very simple: you have been dealing with very serious issues and in the last few days we have been going through a crisis in energy. Do you think that with what you have done in EMCDDA and in the amendments and the unreliability you have now given will someone trust you in the energy market? And that is very serious, Mr Hatzidakis. You do not have the opportunity to respond to the responsibility of the role anymore, which is very serious. If the European Union finds out what you are doing with the last minute's amendments, it will take you lower than Poland and Hungary. And that's what we care about, because we care about our country and democratic functions. To fill your weakness, you loaded it all in the Opposition. Why do you think that because you have the "fashioned" media - from the Pecha list I mean - you won't be revealed. Yes, but I also know a proverb that the world says, "the liar and the thief are happy in the first year". Here, too, we have serious problems and they are revealed. So to make it clear what the situation for the bill is. Firstly, Mr President, our view of non-planned construction and planning is as follows: you have tried to put words into our mouths. So let's get this straight. The bill does not restrict off-project construction or promote design, and our view is that only with design will the problems be solved, as well as non-project development and environmental degradation. Only by designing space and land use will corruption and complication stop. And you don't want the design and organization of uses, because you don't want practically to stop corruption and complications. That's why you're breaking up the design. And that's not just what SYRIZA says, almost all opposition parties say, the Technical Chamber says so, the Central Association of Municipalities, the SADAS, the villagers, the NGOs and you were isolated in the debate by all of them. The design ensures that small and medium-sized owners, as SYRIZA says yesterday, that Alexis Tsipras. This bill - which, anyway, cannot be implemented and overturned - will be overturned by the next government. How? As it is progressive and democratic, it will continue the work that we have started and we will have a comprehensive plan that limits and excludes the non-building project, but also illegal uses, because there will be rules for both the small and the large. Equivalence and transparency! Because we started planning and planning launched - specifications, methodology, funding - and electronic permits and building observatories - which you have not activated - and the electronic identity of buildings and maritime spatial planning and the rule of law with forest maps, landmarks, cavalry regulation, which are all frozen by the New Democracy. Thus, the problems of the project will be solved with this policy and arbitraryness, but also development. And of course, the derogations made by your own governments will be stopped. You represent Robin Hood and you will abolish the derogations made by your own governments. The criticism of addressing it to your party that did things in the country. However, they are not just hypocritical in their off-project location. They are deeply undemocratic. To settle political and personal jobs, they do not want municipalities, regions, transparency and such troubles to be on their feet. So they make surgical adjustments to previous laws and introduce binding arrangements. It is clear to Article 8: The Secretary-General added that the regional planning frameworks are bound by the regulations - they were not in the previous version - and that only if the possibility is expressly given will the specific territorial frameworks change from the region. So it locks this up, it's clear and I'll testify to it in the Minutes. But we are also doing a parallel structure, which is also being strengthened by the amendment, so that the Ministry can at the same time have commissions, supervision, a massage with its own, and also solve the locations and permits. That is why it removes from self-government and from the regions all the responsibilities and intervenes as 'Derbana' everywhere. So what is he doing with the amendment? It creates a central building service, while the AOC could give authorisations so far. He says he couldn't, first lie. Second, what's he doing? It freezes the recruitments of about two hundred and fifty engineers to have building observers and says the services don't work. What's the third problem? He says he will address major projects. What are the major projects in the amendment? He'll get permissions - he says - for big projects. EUR 500,000 projects and building three thousand squares are strategic investments? It's a housing complex. Are you all right? Who are you kidding? The stones laugh at these criteria too. Obviously, no investment is a strategy, but settlements and routing are a strategic investment in New Democracy. That's what you are! You invest strategically in the ruffles and services. It therefore sets up a service mechanism to control everything and the dispute councils, and so the parties outside the minister's office will go in line. That's what you want, you're turning us back to the 1950s and 1960s. You are so backward, so old-fashioned, anti-European literally. Europe does not have such a characteristic. This is literally Greece of the 1950s and 1960s. In Europe, the state decentralizes, trains services, strengthens the state, not like you who only know that it is the fault of others. You have specific responsibilities here. Even in energy, you say it's the fault of others, and you did it. Let us make it clear: there can be no such misunderstanding. You cannot violate the rule of European - if you want - democracy, which is decentralisation with competences. And literally what you do is turn Greece for many years back. I am not saying that you take her back three thousand years, as we have seen in the post, but after ten years you will literally be wondering how Paleolithic the policy applied by Mr Hatzidakis is. Let's go a little bit on the amendment to Article 4 for the SMAs. What are you doing? Reiterate an article that you voted with Law 4685 and you are so inadequate that you do not repeal the previous one. Will you have both in place, Mr. Hatzidakis? Tell me! I tried to let you know when you testified. You've got the wrong legacy. Secondly, you have a problem of unconstitutionality. You cannot space activities without environmental authorisation and compatible land uses. They'll fall. You add some municipalities, you leave the old - unbelievable salt! - and one issue arises: You have an SMA Piraeus which, however, is in another municipality, is in the Municipality of Perama. Did you ask the Municipality of Perama, Mr. Hatzidakis, or do you have any reservations because you solve problems in some municipalities, do you also have any other third party obligations? And here is one issue: Is it the same municipality, the Municipality of Perama, in which you stopped the General Urban Plan, Mr. Economou? Because in the city's mail request - which was advanced, I think was stage B2 of the GPS - you replied that the General Urban Plan should not be completed. Why? Because they're downgraded areas? Because they are populace areas with serious environmental and land-use problems? Why do you always want in some areas all the heavy uses to be collected? As a result of deterioration, these projects and projects must be promoted. And that is a deficit which we will see in the new plans. You don't like people's neighborhoods and you will put the high areas in quick design. This is the New Democracy. People understand it clearly. But that is where we have serious problems that need to be solved. In both Perama and Drapetsona there are serious problems of dysosmia, environmental violations, uses of the directives. And where are the environment inspectors? Where are the fines? Or does Mera25 have a department right? Not accurate, of course, because he didn't tell the truth about the villages. However, we say: we are ready to contribute to a solution for the Piraeus region, for the degraded areas, because you do not carry out the Secretary of State's duties and there are serious issues also with the control of legality, but also with a relocation plan based on what is required. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I'm going a little bit now to energy. You will allow me, Mr President, to speak of the amendment. So this amendment on energy is a ranch introduced by Mr Hatzidakis to cover the deficit he created and at the same time dismantles the energy market to the detriment of the energy communities, behind and away from the European acquis, anachronistic, roughly with such sloppies, which he has done a year ago and which we are now paying for. It's wrong! We in 2015 actually received an account with a deficit of EUR 800 million. We have also managed to balance him and made him surplus, without any burden on the citizens of a single euro. When Mr Hatzidakis arrived he burdens society at EUR 500 million, not only for the rescue of PPC, as he said, but - and I expressly state it - for the service of energy suppliers who have created cartels, which are, unfortunately, currently making profits of hundreds of millions of euros at the expense of consumers. They sell four times the price, Mr President, from wholesale and Mr Hatzidakis does nothing. To hide, of course, the deficit of his own policy says that "I reduced EMFFAR, to be citizens-friendly, it is not my fault for the deficit, but now the account." However, the deficit has appeared since 2019. Mr President, I would like to put forward specific points. Mr. Hatzidakis says it's not his policy. Institutions' report, November 2019: 'It seems that this deficit' - there was no COVID at that time, was there, so are the institutions also? - "it is due to the reduction in EMCDDA". I'll submit it to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u116	How close did 2019? In 2019, with how much money did it book?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u117	So we're going on now. Secondly, it says that the deficit is now EUR 300 million. Is it COVID's fault? No, it is betrayed by the President of the APRC, Mr. Yarentis, who says that COVID is about EUR 118 million. For the other EUR 180 million missing who is to blame, since it is now about EUR 300 million? I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. And he's being disguised by all the market operators. Unfortunately, the AIA operators who came to committee said it was Mr Hatzidakis' choice. Are you disgusting both the small and the big producers? Mr. Hatzidakis, are they all liars? Are you the only ones right? However, I think Mr Hatzidakis has succeeded in proving that, instead of having a spring, he is creating an investment winter in renewable energy sources as well. The 'green' and renowned pro-investing government creates a climate of serious unreliability. And what do we have right now? It charges all suppliers for next year - to whom they now accumulate goodwill and profits - at costs, but which will be reduced. They're practically not paying anything, because they're losing another cost, the NSAF, I'm saying it in detail for the Minutes. It imposes a green fee, but it is unfair - 'green' - on fuel oil which affects transport, which affects farmers of EUR 100 million. It burdens businesses with a threatened decision on the average trend of about 180 million. We expect to see which bodies will be imposed, Mr Hatzidakis. You are required to do so retroactively as from 1 January 2019. We're waiting. However, it at the same time cancels the benefit of all consumers from 700 million. And here comes a question: you said yesterday that we, Mr Tsipras, do not want to support the RES that you want to support with the 700 million of the YEOs. So, how do lies prove themselves? In his own words. Mr Hatzidakis said on 17 October that consumers would benefit from a 700 million reduction in the cost of electricity connections and now he comes and says that 'I was telling you'. He says so himself. How does untrustability, anachronism reveal? He now says that 'I will not give it to the consumer account, I will give it to cover the deficit that I have created'. I'm going to testify this for the Minutes too. At the same time, it makes a contribution to all producers of renewable energy, and it makes it particularly difficult and excludes small - up to 500 - energy communities, creates terrible problems with the compatibility of shares and participations in energy communities, because it wants to play with a few and large ones. He does not care about pluralism, he does not care about producing energy in our country, he does not care if there are many investors, that there is energy produced from renewable sources, that it is distributed spatially and in agreement on the locations and that we have cheap electricity in the areas of the RES. Oh, no. It goes further than structural measures. He eventually disguises himself and creates serious problems in other areas. We see that with a great deal of carelessness and without consultation, it also amends the issues of strategic investment. We see a lot of publications about businesses and investments that are left out. However, although the arrangements deserve debate, they cannot come as a surprise. They've been to Maximus. You know that. But we are not concerned about corporate activities, we are concerned that this is not the case for legislating and planning. What are we still seeing in the amendment? Two more direct assignments. While it destroys, almost all of the energy market, small, large, medium-sized, communities, all - only suppliers - while putting rags everywhere, to all consumers, we also see two assignments from RAE and the ADP. Yeah, but you did this again to Law 4685 six months ago. And now you're coming back with new assignments. The bad news is, therefore, that you are being overcome and the derogations, Mr Hatzidakis. And that also proves how sluggish you are, how weak you are to deal with such serious issues, because, despite the term of the memorandums, not a single euro increase occurred during the period of the SYRIZA Government and since 2018 we have caught the target for renewable energy that Europe has set us for 2020. And a question arises, Mr President, and I close: will the measures currently brought by Mr Hatzidakis be taken? What can I tell you? Here we have another concern. The first is that we have unfortunately heard from the RAE, in the debate that took place in the committee, that the study on these measures was subsequently commissioned. You know, this is very European: First it announced the measures, it has brought them to legislate and it has not studied yet. Now will you see the impact of the measures? Now you'll see the impact of the measures, now will you see if it's enough? Such anachronism has never existed before, so old logic, completely unscientific. Mr President, the WWF document, 'Greenpeace', which says that the answer to two questions, if they contribute to achieving the objectives and viability of ERA, is negative. Without data, we say, on the Department's side, with a significant negative attitude to the non-governmental organizations. This whole situation, unfortunately, proves that, because of this policy of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, there are many more problems, no applicable law, no fair law and too many problems. And you know what their logic is? What Mr Mitsotakis says is the fault of everyone else and not us. The problem is one: the unfair, anachronistic, anti-social and anti-environmental policy implemented by this government. It is a government that quickly needs to leave its place in a progressive democratic governance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Georgios Arvanitidis has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, has been trying all these days in vain and has been compelled to convince us that the history of the reforms in Greece begins and ends in it. I believe that a little modesty and humility, Minister, and less self- admiration would not be harmed. I understand that you have begun to feel uncomfortable with your choices, both as government and you personally. But this does not give you the right to overcome these difficulties to distort what we say and we propose as a Change Movement. You have served in a crusade of distortion of history and falsification of what our party has offered over time. But we are here, Mr Hatzidakis, to refresh your memory, but also to remind the great environmental reforms of your own party over time. Was it or wasn't it, Mr. Hatzidakis, your party responsible for cementing post-war Athens? It was, of course. Was it or was it not, Mr Hatzidakis, your party that showed in 2007 the re-introduction of the five thousand farmkeepers as an Ecological Police Corps that would protect us from environmental degradation? It was your resignation again. It was or was not, Mr Hatzidakis, your party who wants to cement the center of Thessaloniki with a dense structure, with an increase in the allowable heights and a heavy environmental footprint, applying in our view the Project Real Estate that you are baptizing for "the renovation of the ICU", instead of this space along with the periphery green of Thessaloniki and the coastal front being the stock of land on which we must base a new sustainable city. All this and so many more I can quote are the timeless reforms of Mr Hatzidakis' right-wing party in the environment and planning. And you are trying today to tell us that we are doing backwards and poorly not supporting your major reforms. I repeat: The Change Movement will vote in favour of the positive provisions and only those that go hand in hand with the reforms that we have done all the previous years in every area of the social and economic life of the country. However, Minister, you have even distorted what I said as the rapporteur for the Change Movement. If you did this on purpose, then I can judge you. If you did because you were transferred what I said or did not understand what I said, then I will repeat it to you. We criticise you for not applying what is proposed in the Pissaridis report. So what does the Pissaridis report propose, Minister? It proposes that we become an independent authority. Is that what you do to Articles 124 and 125? Reread the articles of your own bill and answer us clearly with a "yes" or a "no". Upgrade environmental inspectors to an independent authority? 'No' is the right answer. You simply load them with additional bureaucratic responsibilities, as WWF told you. Why, then, this obsession with distortion? The Pissaridis report also talks about decentralisation and a role in self-government. The CEDEFOP and its recent meeting yesterday - I think - tells you 'take the bill back'. We also disagreed not with the existence, but with the increase in fines for the late declaration of the register in 2021. We have not told you that there are no people at all, since they are already provided for by the law. But when you come in these circumstances and the existing fines from EUR 50 to EUR 1,500 are made from EUR 300 to EUR 2 000, then I think we have the right to criticise you at least, Minister, and let me personally ask you yesterday, saying: 'We are sorry, but Mr Arvanitidis how long he has taken to remember his property and to go state it in the Register'. Is that so awesome what we're asking? So I ask you this: do you, Minister, need a fine and no fine so that you finally decide to legislate properly and not to bring us two'mini' bills in the bill, with last minute amendments? So, how terrible is that what we're asking you for? With your last tenth energy amendment, you are changing the entire energy environment for the sixth time in eighteen months. Every three months a change. And so you are effectively ending the energy communities and small producers. This is a universal lockdown in energy democracy. At first you told them to invest in photovoltaics. Then you told them to make energy communities. Then you gave them unlimited priority as energy communities. Then you limited the unlimited priority of energy communities and gave Net Metering unlimited priority to self-production. So he blocked the system. Then you enabled small and energy communities to connect to the high voltage with substations. Then you issued a press release that you announced an extraordinary contribution and you get it all back, all that you've given five months ago. Then, before the law becomes the law, the press release changes your intention to legislation again and you come and table the amendment that changes - among other things - the composition status of energy communities, and indeed, retroactively. You did not submit this amendment to the committee and the debate was made on the basis of the papers and the press releases. What we have lived in committee a week now is called the degradation and dismantling of Parliament's procedures and you have done so personally, because of the way you choose to legislate, which is inexperienced. Honestly, even a neighborhood grocery store has a better organization. And if it is not because of the irrationality, then it is due to a very puppet tacticism. You choose what's going on. So, in this late amendment, you also regulate the deficit of the Special EIA Account, ELAP, which is a deficit that you have rendered without any study in the pandemic and impose an exceptional contribution of 6% on the backs of small and medium-sized investors. In the absence of any other comments, the Commission considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. There is no exceptional contribution to the large investments over seven hundred megawatts of the very large wind parks built by the well-known superpowers of the industry. Why, then, is the question born: Why are they excluded? Why are these investments considered COVID free? Because that's what this is about. The smuggling of small and medium-sized investors by Mr Hatzidakis is therefore culminating with the so-called structural arrangements of the RES, as he calls them. Unfortunately, however, they end up being irresistible deregulations by you, Minister. Five months ago, you yourself celebrated because by ministerial decision, you were giving you a clear horizon for two years to small and medium-sized RES investments with specific feeds and encouraged the Greeks to make new investments. Today and while tens of thousands of investors have been involved in a process of long-term licensing of more than nine thousand projects in RES throughout Greece, you are suddenly changing the framework and leaving them with meteors. These people have spent time, money, they have misunderstood. More than EUR 12 million have been collected for the applications that have been submitted. So you call on these investors to complete the requests to the competent managers by the end of the year, 2020, just in twenty days, in the middle of a coronary, with all this debate that is being'stay home', in the way the public works. At the same time, you are giving extensions to urban issues and permits - now you have brought it here to discuss it - because of COVID. So in town planning extensions due to COVID, in energy lockdowns, in friendly tactics - or fashion - it is, otherwise - at this time. With effect from 1 January 2021, all new applications for small photovoltaics under five hundred kilowatts will be required to participate in a competitive procedure. If they do not consider their requests from managers and OIPs within 2021 and, in the first half of 2021, within the first half of 2021 for energy communities, they go to a more unfavourable regime. Do you know that the Thessaloniki DEDEE deals with applications in May 2019? Do you know that the Central Greek DEDEFOP examines applications in May 2020? You are putting limits on investors, on energy communities, on small producers, at the same time as your services are unable to handle the files. At least tell them to have these time limits from the point where requests from the managers are being answered. Then set limits to the execution. But what limits you cannot regulate? So what credibility, Minister, do you have? Here, for us, this is a mock. At the same time that you put aspiring deadlines on the small projects and projects of the energy communities, you leave to the unavoidable large wind parks of about eight hundred megawatts to connect in 2021 with high turfs that have been established since 2016, giving them continuous extensions, far higher than the current small-scale investors and the energy communities. The brutal behaviour and your vigilance towards the energy communities continue with the irrational ban on the citizen from participating in more than two energy communities in the same region and, indeed, with retroactive power. These people have built projects, they have taken loans and now you tell them to leave the energy communities where they participate. It's literally about confiscation of property. Mr. Hatzidakis cannot play with the dreams of small investors and cheat them with such apathy, violating every concept of energy democracy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need a minimum of time, Mr. President. The aim of all of this, in our view, is obvious: to exclude small and medium-sized enterprises from RES investments and the electricity sector - which is a long way away, which, unfortunately, is to increase this space - to end up with the few and large players of the market. The electric space belongs to all Greeks and is not a minister to give him where he wishes, to a few and chosen. So I come to our proposals as a Change Movement. As a movement of change, we ask you, Minister, to remove the levy on the turnover of the RES producers. The end date of 30-12-2020 for the completeness of the files to be extended for a quarter due to COVID -19 to allow those who have already begun to make expenditures for the licensing of projects to fill in their files. Thirdly, the date of submission of the new requests which will not go to tender should also be extended for the same reasons for a quarter. You know that in order for a request to be submitted, there is a need for service opinions that in these circumstances COVID needs three to four months. Fourthly, completely abolish the end date of 30-6-2021 for energy communities and simulate for the end of the time applicable to all other private projects. To abolish the irrational exclusion of the participation of citizens in only two energy communities. To be excluded from the prohibition on large communities over sixty members or those participating in the OTA. To allow for a transitional period for those who did not have time to complete their projects because of the pandemic - it is a real problem, I have also asked you a question - to lock the reference values that were in place on the expiry date on 26 November. It is completely incomprehensible why these people should lose their deadlines! Here the requirements regulate the greater responsibility of the citizens. Here in every sector that is what we do. In these cases, you've been caught by a special precursor! You want to close it all now! To create a category - also important - small photovoltaic stations that will continue to receive operating aid contract outside competitions. Let it be two hundred, let it be three hundred kilowatts! Listen! Ministry of Rural Development: So it directs farmers to make agricultural photovoltaics and with funding for Net Metering. So you are now coming and these people are being charged at an extra cost for oil. That's what happened to having cheap energy, lowering their costs. You have no concern and you exclude them from the RES. Explain to me: How do you understand that? I will not get tired of asking again and again, Mr Hatzidakis, who likes to mention - and I close with it - to best practices in other European countries. In Germany, the largest economy in Europe, more than 40% of the RES projects touched citizens producing their own green energy. Why do you choose to deprive the Greeks of this possibility? If they have problems with previous legislations, which were at the beginning of the process of how people work with energy communities, correct it rather than exclude it and lead them to lockdown. What we are asking for is equality, equal opportunities for everyone, to approach European standards and not to have higher electricity prices and market distortions, such as the negative course in Target Model, which you are monitoring at distance and in apathy. I am pleased that Mr Economou has informed me before that the amendment we tabled, so that the same rules will apply up to the deadlines for the transitional provisions on non-projects, will be corrected by legislative improvements. To close, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that in the main body of the bill the government shows its preference to the great and powerful. With your energy amendment you are hitting small and medium-sized RES producers. You must remember, however, that these people voted for a vote of confidence in the Greek economy, with a positive contribution to the environment. Then, unfortunately, from today's bill very difficult to trust us again, to trust your government and your policy in particular. For all these reasons - unfortunately - our fears have been confirmed and we are voting against this bill. For the same reasons, the present New Democracy Government will remain in history once again as a government of the few and in energy. Mr Hatzidakis will be permanently accompanied by the title of Minister for the Environment, Energy and Amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u120	I would ask that Stepma be settled in order to get the floor for the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Diamanto Manolakos. Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u121	It is clear that you have had your reasons to bring the amendments at the last minute so that neither institutions nor speakers could say that apart from class, environmental, anti-polluting, autocratic, tax-fixing your bill is also a tax-free one. In fact, it is provoking green raisins in petrol that you put it when the people are squeezing from energy poverty and you call it a 'green end'. These are your innovations. This is your green development and your mockery. It is exactly what today comes up with a few newspapers headlines and, of course, it will premium accurately for basic species in a period of economic crisis and chasmisation, insecurity of industrial relations. You have done so by means of legislative acts to worsen the income and the position of the working class, as well as the working conditions. However, large businessmen are exempted from this charm, but not farmers or self-employed professionals. Your class policy is everywhere. It is also foreseen for 2021 that a surcharge of EUR 2 per megawatt to the electricity supply companies and an exceptional special levy should be imposed on all RES stations. These charges will pass on to final consumption and electricity tariffs when people's income is reduced. The result will be to increase the cost of moving and transporting goods, while increasing production costs for small farmers, as well as costs for passenger or freight motorists. Of course, the revenues from the malting of the people's layers will go to the enhancement of RES projects and the promotion of electromobility. Therefore, it is not only SYRIZA, but also New Democracy, and it seems that SYRIZA is only rustling. You are here to grant RES licences to groups like rain, destroying even areas of historical and environmental value. And don't hurry to charge us that we're against renewable energy sources. We are simply against their unregulated dissemination, without fundamental respect for protected areas for the profit of capitalists, who are haunted and you satisfy what they demand. Furthermore, the scalable pricing of the Special Consumption Tax on high and medium-voltage enterprises, according to their annual consumption, is a measure that leads to the reduction of the Special Consumption Tax in a large number of enterprises of the average trend - your own words - thus satisfying another time-consuming desire of industrialists. With regard to the defoliation and green energy transition plans, they have nothing to do with the needs of the people and the country for cheap access to energy and heating, for effective environmental protection, to reduce energy dependence. On the contrary, they aim to open new profit fields for monopolistic groups, domestic and international, with the people paying for the broken, by escalating unemployment in the regions of western Macedonia and Arcadia, with energy poverty intensity and even greater degradation and environmental destruction. The billions of euros from the Fair Transition Fund are intended for business groups. You are coordinated in this, New Democracy and SYRIZA, with the defoliation plan and promote it in every way. In fact, with a lot of courage and hypocrisy, in an area with high unemployment, what are you doing? You are dissolving the country's most important heavy industry, the lignite power plants, even causing unemployment and poverty. And what are you telling us? You tell us that lignite is no longer such a cheap fuel, because you are hiding that it is the consequences and direction that the European Union imposes on the trade in pollutant emission rights and promotes green energy, because it has a comparative advantage in competition with the USA and Russia. At the same time, you are hiding that energy is being wasted from increasing gas generation, while with the same funds you could upgrade to energy efficiency with environmentally friendly technologies, existing lignite stations and, indeed, build new ones. You are still hiding that the country's energy dependence is being strengthened. However, great and challenging are gifts to both the amendments to tourist capital and the major tourists. It's photographic and provocative. Even roads make use of, when they are across the street and of course, generous you are to increase their build-up rate in every way. In fact, if you do not have any obstacles and delays, you are making progress in setting up a Central Building Agency, of course, with the continuity of what SYRIZA has made. It shows, however, that you are, as urban parties, in favour of business groups, you compete with who will first serve them and throw a fight in order to blur your convergence strategy, because you have minor differences. But here, what are you doing? You broaden responsibilities and regulate and overlap with the Directorate-General for Strategic Investments. The main thing, however, is that the large-scale investors ensure faster procedures, you make it easier for them. However, the same is not true for the small, self-employed, for the bio-opportunists, who will wait in the tail, in the weakened, subordinated building services in the municipalities. You do, in fact, a reason that the big people and a paradox will pay. However, the level is determined by a joint ministerial decision. You're not telling us, that is, it could be symbolic. And all of this so as not to recruit, not to serve the city's building services, to serve and not discipline the ordinary world. As far as waste transhipments are concerned, the criminal environmental and health policy, which by law legitimises uncontrollably scattered local transhipment stations in municipalities in Attica, continues and deteriorates. They are open facilities in areas that are banned for VMS uses of land, many of which are subject to protection regimes and most have been mutated into local landfills, without minimum standards for the environment, health and safety of work. Let's note that it's a strange game to play with the local SMA Piraeus, which had previously been legalised by Law 4685-2020. Then he withdrew by another law, because there were protests, as it falls within a Mount Egaleo Special Protection Zone and now you're bringing it back. Protests are many. Overall, however, the duration of the VMSs is initially set in three years, but also with the experience of 'never more permanent of the provisional', each understands what is going to happen. As regards the article on the amendment which you refer to in the Regulatory Athens, Attica and so on, we shall vote against it. Of course, if we understand it correctly, we ask you, that is, we ask for an answer: Do you change the use in the Drapetsona - Keracini area and restore it as it was before? I hope that that is not the case, because such intervention can also mean strengthening a particular industry that pollutes the wider region and we have tabled a question for its removal and, of course, also causes operators and local society to mobilise.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u122	We're not changing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u123	All right, all right, so we'll be quiet. Thank you. With regard to the amendment to move medical and nursing potential with financial incentives, what are you doing? "Growing away" from hospitals necessary staff to transfer where the situation is completely out of hand and we are at the heart of the second cycle of pandemic. So, to limit a big hole, you're magnifying other holes in other hospitals. Instead of making a real order for private people here and now, instead of hiring staff, you come with such a provocative amendment, when - through the announcement of the Federation of Hospital Doctors I say it - there are terrible subsidization in hospitals, but there are two and a half thousand applications for nine hundred posts that the government has not made. And with such terminology as this amendment you are trying to get rid of the great and heavy responsibilities you have. We're not voting. We are voting against it. I move on to an amendment to the transfer to the Municipality of Marathon, EFKA, owned by NAT, that is to say to seafarers. Which they have paid with their contributions and are now sold to the Municipality of Marathon for liquidity in EFKA. And where will it be paid? From the Fever Relief Fund! So you're putting your hands on the money that's for people who've been destroyed and need to stand on their feet. However, the conditions of sale do not ensure that this, which is 'file', will not be given for exploitation or privatization, even as a recreation. Furthermore, you do not even guarantee the Marathon Municipality's request that the existing facilities can be used for public purposes, say schools that need them. We are therefore voting against all four ministerial amendments. Finally, I say that both the bill and the amendments and the speeches made by the Minister and the Deputy Minister are clearly in favour of businessmen, in favour of groups. You even support them with unspeakable derogations, such as Article 137 for construction without building permits in land ports. You are serving monopolies, such as 'COSCO', to which all governments have granted the largest port in the country and the Eastern Mediterranean, at the expense of the needs of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. The reason is now the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr. Vassiliardos, who is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. In the bill and its huge problems we have mentioned many times, both at the outset and in detail one in the articles, stressing that the government - the troika better - has chosen for its statement at the best possible time for the Greeks as well as the worst possible time. Aim, of course. We have raised many questions, we have raised our objections, but we have not received any answers - none - because the government prefers to answer only to SYRIZA, because that suits it. Why does it make her comfortable? Because SYRIZA has applied the very policy of the memorials, beating, just like the New Democracy - that is to say - the head in the troika and the Germans. We have rightly said that we will vote against the bill. The way he is told, of course, 'project', since almost everything that the government has put forward for at least the last few months is, in fact, memoirs, orders from the Troika under another name. Unfortunately, it is a disgrace to our country and we are very saddened that we cannot change this data. In the amendment on energy issues, in 627, Article 1 relates to the defoliation plan or a fair transition. As we will be submitting to the Minutes, the consultation on this project has been submitted and closed, and the news says it will be discussed next week by the Ministerial Council. We therefore wonder why the amendment was tabled today and not with the consultation bill, so that it can be discussed in committee and in Parliament, in order to decide what projects are to be selected for the urban plan. Here we would like to ask whether with the present control it is for Parliament to authorise special town planning projects to be carried out in these areas, thereby bypassing decisions in the future, because the special town planning projects are ratified by a Minister's decision and a presidential decree, by Article 11.3b. President. - The next item is the In simple terms, have the various awards already been decided and are discussions not desirable to the government? We, however, have many reservations about the whole issue of ligniteification, among other things because Greece does not have as many emissions as the industrialised countries are facing huge economic problems and worse, because its energy dependence will greatly increase. We do not see the reason for the rush, when Germany, Germany, much richer, plans to do something similar in 2038. After all, it would be better to use the money given for green energy - the 3 or 5 billion, according to the government's statements and various publications - to produce cars and parts, such as batteries, with the valuable lithium deposits of LARCO and the possibility of aid from the European Union. If I am not mistaken, we are the only country almost along with Albania that has no car industry. In this regard, it is literally unacceptable to sell LARCO, which is planned by the government, especially because it currently has lithium, which is considered extremely valuable. These 3 or 5 billion could add the green investment funds, the EUR 32 billion package, which we will also present in the Minutes, since 38% must be spent on green projects, so it is better to spend on this. There is, of course, a park of electricity in the proposed projects of liberation, but no one can be sure of the possibilities available. With regard to the six thousand jobs in the projects described in the programme's aggregate actions, on the one hand they are hypothetical, on the other they will not cover the twenty-five thousand directly and indirectly employed by PPC in the above areas, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. Here there are hundreds of thousands of people who will be affected by frustration. For us, however, - I am referring to Article 7 of the amendment - a strategy is an investment that guarantees national and energy security, as well as domestic added value, and we are not going to give any authorisation for urban plans before we see them. Article 2 is now clearly seen - as in Article 1 - the effects of curiosity, since uses have not yet been decided and it is stated that they can be transferred to paragraph 5. Paragraph 8 does not provide for a plant on forest land. If that's possible! Article 3 imposes a number of retroactive and one-off charges on RES producers at the expense of green energy, of course in order to cover the deficit from EMCDDA. The Report of the General Accounting Office of the State states that the revenues will be 110.7 million for the past years and 107.3 million for 2021, so a total of 218 million, when we read that the deficit of EMEPAR can reach 300 million. It is the so-called ‘rescue of PPC’, where the invoices increased and the EMCDDA decreased, as we had analysed in a recent timely question. In this respect, we have then established that in addition to the above, its profitability is due to cheap energy imports due to the pandemic and the abolition of NOMEs, which were already due at the end of 2019. If they had remained the same data as the previous year, PPC would actually be marginally profitable, saying then, when the question was discussed, how better to have luck than mind, intelligence and plan. In Article 4 now, we see a green oil charge of EUR 108.4 million in the General Accounting Office of the State, which will be charged to consumers and paid for green projects. Why, really, do you not impose a similar charge on natural gas, since this emits pollutants? Because, obviously, the big businessmen who support the government would react. Is it possible to charge people further in the midst of the deep recession that we are experiencing? Honestly, this is all out of reality. As far as the following articles are concerned, it seems clear that they are photographic and specific arrangements that we cannot follow, as in Article 5 where there is a burden on the small RES to close them, obviously, the large ones - we do not see any other reason - and Article 7, which includes electricity connections in the strategic investment. Obviously, you do because you want to grant the connection of Crete - Attica, which you have included in all 32 billion, while it serves specific EIA interests in Crete. We note that we have tabled a corresponding question here. Besides, offshore parks are included in strategies. We have recently seen that the study was given to Norwegians, who are some pioneers, but we know that they are more expensive. At least the bases in the Greek shipyards, as they want, insist and will succeed in the Spanish shipyards. But if you want to put wind turbines on the sea, why not on the rock islands where you banned it? As for marine photovoltaics, which are also part of strategic investment, what can one say? China, of course, had started it, but what do we have to do with this country? At least, however, there should be an EEZ and fishing zone previously, so that we know and know where investors can be built. However, we hope that the PVs will not pollute fishing and the fields. That is why we are proposing that some studies should be carried out in advance, at least to make sure that this is not the case. Finally, Article 13 confirms the Minister's approval of the Special Urban Plans. It is, of course, unacceptable. As far as the second amendment is concerned, Amendment No 625, which relates to spatial planning, Article 2, concerns the amendments to the Regulatory Plan for the Archaeological Museum. We hope that it will not be used for an experiment by the Municipality of Athens, such as the "big walk", without at least having a debate. We mention it because the Prime Minister had said something about regeneration in the past, as we will testify in the Minutes. What exactly is this about? In Article 12 we have another regulation for the Greek, before the investor even pays the first instalment of 300 million, as can be seen from the budget. We are really impressed by the generosity of the government, especially with regard to this particular investor, who already sells without even giving one euro himself. Article 8 for forest land on FYROM is more than unacceptable, while Article 10 is of interest to the temples on small plots. As long as only plots of more than four acres are provided, they will be reserved for the most prosperous. Finally, in Articles 11 and 12, we assume that this is also a matter of photographic regulations, which are certainly not the only ones. I come to the amendment with a general number of 635. As far as Article 1 is concerned, we would like to ask what criteria are to be chosen for medical and nursing staff to move around. As far as Article 2 is concerned, we would like to ask how volunteers will offer their services, which is the way in which volunteers can join and operate. According to our information, the demands that are finally put on the candidates are kicking them out. They're forbidden. I shall close with the amendment under a general figure of 634. Despite the problems that have been mentioned, we would agree, but with the following two safeguards: firstly, the municipality cannot transfer them - and, secondly, the use of existing buildings - as requested by the municipality - for schools and other public purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor to table some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, they are the last legal systems to be tabled. They are basically concerned with the bill and some of the amendments are unimportant. Basically, the legislative improvements most relevant in this package are some legislative improvements relating to transitional provisions for decentralisation, some clarifications taken into account by colleagues in committee and in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u128	Does it have any legislative amendments too?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u129	You'll read them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u130	I would ask that they be presented for the Minutes and that they be distributed to colleagues, rapporteurs, special speakers and to everyone interested.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u131	I shall now put them to the vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u132	We close this cycle of positioning the rapporteurs and special speakers with the special speaker of Mera25, Mr Arsenis. I would also like to inform you of the procedure from now on. Immediately after Mr Arsenis the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, will take the floor. Parliament's positions will then be followed as follows: From the end, from a reversed order, unless otherwise requested for some reason. The parliamentary representatives whose chairman of the parliamentary group has spoken to them will be given the floor for five minutes. The parliamentary representatives whose President of their parliamentary group has not spoken, will be given the floor for ten minutes, with the exception of Mr Bukkoro, who has not spoken at all and has the potential of both his protology and dentistry. In the meantime, I believe, Mr Secretary-General, Mr Economou, that after the positions of the parliamentary representatives, you will take the floor and, finally, the closure of the debate will be done by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u133	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u134	What do you want, Mr. Heta?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, of course we will be disciplined in what you say, as we always do. In case we just need a little more time, because we, besides being twelve to fourteen hours a day here, know that we don't have many speakers during the procedure, so we may need one to two minutes more, so we ask for your tolerance. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u136	I now give the floor to Mr Arseni. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President. MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen, we are obviously talking about the bill that obliges small landowners, under the four acres, to build them roughly and immediately and the large landowners, starting with fifty acres and upwards, to build as much as they want to build now and increase, eject, the unrealistic construction. It's shocking and characteristic that while you brought again legal and legislative changes to the bill, in practice, after the last speaker and rapporteur of the bill came down from the Stepma, and I too am in Stepma right now, I have not seen them in my hands, I have not seen them. It is a characteristic of the blatant legislature in which you are also making a complete lack of respect for the parliamentary process and our democracy. Nevertheless, we will continue with these adverse conditions to do our best to inform the citizens who are listening to us and those who will read us. You have always tabled amendments that have been delayed, which are always too late in the process, anyway, and without any suggestion, even though they are whole, by applying your own legislation, in which, if there are other consortia reports from the State Accounting Office, etc., there is no need for a report. With regard to the amendment you have tabled on the establishment of a central building service, it is a shocking amendment. You are going to a central agency, which will be controlled by the Minister, all the building permits, which either relate to major projects, or just happened to be late, or in general the individual chooses to refer them to you. Really, who is this private person, who will refer his permission to you instead of to the local town? What's bothering him in the local town? You obviously create a rushphetological mechanism here and take us too, but very much back in our history. As the argument for delays can be heard again, I will repeat that delays exist in the public sector, whether they are in the approval of environmental permits, which you have mentioned many times, or elsewhere, because of subsidization. You want to hire new people to service? You hire them to the existing ones so that the rest can do their work and not bypass them for the citizens who know someone in the Ministry, the Minister's office or the Minister. This doesn't build rule of law, builds state of lawlessness and interlocutory. Now, for the placement of waste transhipment stations, a second package of legislation on this issue, where after you have legitimized too many SMAs throughout Greece, now you also legalize in the Municipality of Agios Dimitrios, Gatsios, Kissamos, Chania, Marathon, Piraeus, Pentelis, Heidaris, Halandrios, etc.. Really, have you ever thought about what it is you're doing? Do you realize that the Waste Transmission Stations in practice, with their compression, do not even allow the criminal things you're planning for AIAs, the Waste Processing Units, do they not even allow mechanical sorting and stop any conversation even for this minimal mechanical recycling? And what are you going to do? Will you then send them on the basis of your plans for combustion? Will you officially burn together? Your plans are incoherent, at least, micro-political and destructive, with the fragmentation of public money. I am not going to mention, in particular, the Schist's, which is the placement of the CSM, and I am going to refer to Schist's, because I do not forget that in the Schist's and the Triad's, you are preparing to make such combustion plants. I urge you to change course, stop and respect the public interest at last. It is a word that seems to be absent from your thinking and practice. In Article 8, we have public areas and, in the absence of these, on forest lands, allow the construction of various activities, including educational buildings, with escorts, storage areas for solid and liquid waste, etc., beyond temples and penitentiary stores. This is also an action against forests and, in particular, a photographic provision against activities already in the process of licensing and applications and cannot be justified by the area's forest area. In Article 12 for the Greek island, again bring other conditions for the co-ownership of hotels, just to serve the Greek and generally bring us photographic packages. With regard to the package of amendments on deprivation, I would again like to ask a very simple question: in the fair transition to Grevenes and Castoria, Mr Minister, where are they? You will tell me: "But they did not have mining activities of PPC." Yes, but, Minister, for so long these regions have not been able to obtain subsidies and funding of many kinds precisely because of high GDP, due to power generation by PPC. Today that this high GDP has collapsed, how are they being compensated for this inability to access funding for so long? It's self-evident and you have to. Of course, where to find money to do so, when the plan to defile the fair transition involves the largest amount of money going to private German companies for RES projects, without actually doing anything to restore the region's productive fabric, which is the one dispersed. Instead of having concrete plans to replace jobs, you are going to investment projects, which are basically aimed at few companies abroad. Unfortunately, you create a hole in the economy of western Macedonia, a black hole, which threatens to suck the whole society, eradicate these areas from the map, along with the fur, which as you know collapses industrially, internationally the fur collapses trade, and that is why you again leave society unprepared, continuing to hit them back and say "we will support you" and leaving them to the cliff. That is what you are finally doing in western Macedonia as a whole. When the time comes to apologise, Minister, for what is happening, there will be no residents, there will be no social tissues in this region of Greece to apologise you. You are, of course, going on to prosecute the energy communities. Why are you so against energy communities? What is it that scares you? Why are you disturbed by the democratisation of the green energy, the democratisation of climate action? Why can you only think of it as a project involving the enrichment of five major business groups? Can you not imitate the example of Germany, Belgium, the example of all other countries, so many other countries worldwide that have achieved because they have created cooperatives, because each citizen could become part of the change in the energy model? This concerns either the energy communities or the other which you do not do, which is to strengthen photovoltaics on the roof, the obligation to have photovoltaics on the roof in the new buildings, the obligation to have energy autonomy in the new buildings. It is shocking to see your new provisions in Article 137 again correctly, Mrs Manolakou from the JRC mentioned it - for the new clipboard structures which can be installed. What are these constructions about? But they concern the illegal work of building the new port in Piraeus, this harbor built on the monument of Themistoclis, built on the sea wall of Piraeus. Yes, you are the government that brings us the great celebration of '21 with terrible words and biconvexes, with ancient Greek style representations in Kallimarmarro, but when it is for the service of interests, cement to become the ancient, Minister. It's okay. These are other ancients, they're not ours. Again, I would like to ask you about your words, because you were not clear once again. You said something to defend the environmental acquis of your bill and the fact that you are obviously bringing an incision to the out-of-project construction by doing one thing, abolishing the derogations by a six-year suspension of this abolition, i.e. making it compulsory for the citizens who are going to be found at the moment of their economic and family collapse, to make construction permits and to make costs to prevent the six years that you have given them. Well, you're locking people in the vicious debt cycle with what you're doing, because what they build will never be able to sell and you know it. But you have them building all the areas around traditional settlements, on either side of the roads, because that is what you do with this bill. What do you think? Anyone who's in a hurry to build has six years. For the rest, you said 'Let the spatial plans wait'. Then you corrected it by saying that they could build in the spatial plans. Since spatial plans generally prohibit derogations, I would like you to explain to us whether you intend to change the spatial plans or who you are misleading first. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] You are, of course, increasing private tourist villages rather than abolishing them, as you must, because they are illegal state subsidies to construction companies. You raise them, allow the two hundred fifty acres that were allowed to build from fifty to 25% increase in the building coefficient. Is that what you do in the off-project building, what you do in the unregulated structure, rather than do organised receptors that are the RITs, which is organised building, but what it contains, contrary to what you do? It contains a 40% contribution to land with public infrastructure, with public access. You don't want that. You have not explained to us why you allow hotels to be built in four acres instead of eight, why you are placing data centers in the nature protection area, in the habitat and species conservation area, in the sustainable natural resources management area where other activities are actually placed exceptionally only to support the basic functions of local societies in which data centers do not belong, Minister. How are you going to make maritime planning, when you exclude aquaculture and coastal fishing infrastructures, when you exclude the area that will flood from rising sea levels? Where's the climate clause in your maritime planning? 5% of the tax you put on the off-project, which is a fine as you plan it, why don't you send it to the town planning, but you say in general that it will compensate for the off-project? How will he compensate for it? Of course, I will close with the article 132 where you anticipate in the Gender HITA and in the zones around the recreation, children's recreation, sport, free green, cultural events. Well, do it. Close the Race Cyberry. Do it, Minister, but close the Ghost HYTA. We call for the immediate abolition of the off-site building for large and small tourist villages - the complex tourist accommodation you have baptised - and we call for the immediate implementation of all the case law of the Council of State to abolish the off-site construction project. We will obviously vote against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was telling Mr Economou earlier that if you look at the cash of everything you testify to us, you would think that we are some terrible criminals who have infiltrated the government and who do not want to leave a stone on a stone, anything, nor for us nor for our children. Keep going. It's an opposition that touches the limits of graphics. Your most fans don't believe her. Nor too much have you asked us - you have done so too - not to table any amendments. We would be the only example of government in all the democratic countries that would not table amendments. I can't control you, it's none of my business. I make this observation and move on. It's not worth standing any more. I will not talk at all about urban issues. I was placed yesterday twice. The Minister responsible will then speak, Mr. Economou. I will only speak about the energy amendment to say first of all that it has a number of regulations, including the conventions on RAE and the RAPEX, which facilitate their work and all this is done in the context of legality. We cannot let either RAE or the RAPEX collapse. There are long-standing arrangements for the quarries of southern Evia and there are also arrangements for degreasing planning, which obviously facilitate the restoration of land and investment in the region. I'd like to think you'd be in favour. I am not so sure, but in any case put yourself in the way you think. I will now make a much more extensive position on the issue of renewable energy sources, ELEPE and the related arrangements that we are bringing today and I will try to be as specific as I can in the time available to me. Let's see some sub-texts. In order to reduce the EMRP last year which caused the problem during the opposition, I will then see that. But before I see who caused the problem, we should say why we reduced the EMFF. EMEPAR did not reduce it just so that the government has a positive sign. The EMCDDA, we reduced it, because if we did not reduce it last year, it would actually not be possible to achieve the resolution of PPC. Because as we should increase PPC's receipts - which we did not hide - if we were to increase at the same time the EMCDDA, it would be as if we were to tell PPC's consumers to leave the company massively. And so the first thing that would happen to new governance would be that the company would collapse, that is, we would do worse than SYRIZA did. And obviously, if PPC collapsed, all the energy in the country would collapse. And, obviously, the RES producers would not have been able to pay. Because, precisely because of the resolution of PPC, they can today and are paid earlier, which I think is worth remembering and pointing out. First comment, therefore, is why there was no other choice last year than the reduction of EMFF. Secondly, what was the impact on the specific account of RES from the reduction of EMFF? Look, at the same time, we had anticipated an increase in the average trend, which has even retroactively entered into and from which one - I would call it a 'white hole' in the finances of the APRC organisation and the special account, so that the problem can be compensated to a certain extent. At the same time, we could have thought about it last year - and, if necessary, about the redistribution from the Pollutant Fund - which we are doing now - and the revenue from producer assurances, as we were planning this change from now. If you add the increase in the average trend, the redistribution from the Pollutant Fund and the producer attestations, you will see that there would be an almost complete vacuum cover created by any reduction in EMFF. After all, the RES producers themselves have talked to us about 145 million. It's their appreciation, not ours. Why is it insisting on this and why is the deficit well over 300 million this year and will it follow in the next few years? For the very simple reason, ladies and gentlemen, when we and the rest of Europe were planning the accounts in Europe, the coronary had not emerged. And the coronary has worked everywhere negatively - all energy users know about it and the RES - because energy demand and energy demand are limited and demand for energy is limited, respectively, to the revenues of the account, and consumption is limited. The revenues of the account are related to consumption and there are no revenues, there are no less revenues. This problem has arisen throughout Europe. I do not know if you have a magic button so that we do not have any problem, whereas Germany has the strongest economic country in Europe, there is a huge problem in this regard. And I would like to ask you, since you are so deeply aware of the issues of energy, you are so horrendously well-known - and that is why you also have this publicity towards us that you think we are ignorant - to reveal this magical recipe to us, if we too can learn something from you and finally proceed in a very reasonable direction, following these constant absurdities that go for one another in our own policy. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, in your wisdom, to help us. I'm going further. How can the deficit that has arisen throughout Europe be tackled? How else have I said - such as the Pollution Fund, which is a mechanism available to all European governments, but has other needs - can it be addressed? I'm thinking. Or with a burden on taxpayers - it is made in Germany at this time and is large-scale - whether by a burden on consumers or by a burden on RES producers and suppliers of electricity. I wonder if we have forgotten about a parameter that you have been zealous for so many days at meetings and I would ask you again to tell us whether a solution can be found outside the context that I have described. Theoretically, if there's anything we can use it. Seeing your places, everyone, you don't want any of this. You do not want taxpayers - I understand that - you do not want consumers, you do not want producers. If I understood well some of you might even want the suppliers, others don't. Anyway, you don't generally want anything. You keep telling us, all the time, about the EMCDDA and the problem you caused in EMCDA. Yes, sir. I would like you to come out of here very well then to speak and say to increase EMSMAR, since you say that the problem is the EMSMAR. Fifteen times it was said by this Step. So since you are disturbed by the reduction in EMCDDA, say we should increase it, so that I may go out and then say that, since you are proposing this, the current will be increased by suggesting that the RES be strengthened. Because you know, you can't have it all yours. You can't have in what you say and the whole pie and the dog are full. I think an analysis of common sense reveals populism and the incredible courage of counterpopulation. So what do we do? We're making a weight-sharing approach. And what do we say? We are saying a burden to suppliers one-off in 2021, because they have indeed won for reasons which I now fail to explain from the developments with the fall of the wholesale price - of 6% per annum and only for 2020 - and it will appear then, because indeed the design is only for 2020 - for RES producers. You're also surprised about that. Excuse me, however, how sensible it is that the government and society are following measures which are related to the reduction of rents collected by property owners - is 30% to 40% just to deal with the impact of the coronary, or to entrepreneurship or the State only partially covers these reductions - with workers pressing and having the aid of five hundred and thirty-four euros or eight hundred euros over the last period, when they lose their jobs, so that one can support and accept in the broad society that this government itself, in line with what I mentioned earlier in the other European countries, must make a single exception for RES producers not to have any contribution and any charge? If you consider this to be social law and progressive policy, then go out - you will talk again - to support it. We are trying to get a fair approach. Therefore, at this juncture, with the coronary crisis, in addition to the measures that I said at the beginning of the distribution of pollutants and producer attestations and the benefits of increasing the average trend since last year, we are saying the suppliers' contribution, we say 6% single for 2020 to the RES producers, and we are talking about all three cents of the euro with the green diesel charge. The green fee can go to the RES, can go to energy savings, can go to nature protection. And as I will show then, we will probably not need it for the next few years - that is, once we move away from 2020,2021,2022 - to be used for the RES, because it will be possible - from the evolution of things and if we do not have any further deterioration in the international economy - to be used for the other purposes I have already mentioned. Therefore, we have this approach. The solution we are giving is for ELPE's finances and long-term and absolutely stable. I do not say that, but two studies, one ordered by the AFRY to the GRANT THORNTON, from the largest audit firms internationally and one ordered by RAE, the Energy Regulator, to AFRY, formerly known as 'POYRY', which is another company that is a specialised foreign company in energy matters. What do these studies say? They say that the measures that we have adopted and presented stand not only in a scenario, the base line scenario, as the studies say, on which things will follow a normal course, but also in the scenario in which there will be further deterioration of the crisis in Greece and abroad. That makes me lead to two conclusions. I think if you're honest and you're going to lead to the same. Firstly, the measures we have taken are ultimately measures in favour of RES, because they do not solve the problem for 2020 and 2021, they solve the problem - I say - by 2030. Sure! It is a courageous move to support renewable energy sources and when one puts numbers down, the numbers clearly prove demagogy on the one hand and the enthusiasm on the other. The second one, which is clearly demonstrated, when the APRC and RAE in their regulations make public the studies, is what we have already announced in mid-November, that in order to support the RES - and we are making it clear that this government really supports investment and supports the APRC - revenues can be transferred from the OHIM, the UAH services, when Crete is finished, or when, in any event, there is a savings for alpha or beta speech from the OHIM. Transfer from NGO to EMCDDA. This provision may not have to be applied. So don't rush to draw conclusions from the consumers. Consumers, anyway, will not be imposed on us by these regulations. It is certain that they will not be imposed unless we implement your own proposal to increase EMFF. It is simply on the basis of what I have said to you in both studies that this regulation can be unnecessary, because the measures we have taken to send a message of confidence to the markets are such that they can also withstand further deterioration of the crisis. These are beans counted. I'm sorry, if I'm upsetting you, but that's the reality. I have closed down on the economic aspect and I am going through the question of the structural measures that we are voting on today. Why are we bringing structural measures to the RES market? Because we need to deal with two issues. One is to withstand the electricity system in the country. It has no endless potential. The RES is a very favourable investment for investors, for the older RES with Tariefs, i.e., with guaranteed prices, with satisfactory returns - extremely satisfactory - I have mentioned these figures, and that is exactly what leads Greek and foreign investors, large and small to do tails for the RES. But there's no magical way to make giant investments at the same time to support the system the next day. You can't have everything in this life. Secondly, because the RES market needs to be adapted to the most comprehensive developments in the energy market, that is to say, it must not be useful for investors only. I am in favour of investors. The motive in the free economy is profit and I haven't hidden it. However, it is also the gain that consumers should pay for such investments. We understand that, throughout Europe, there were measures when the RES had to be introduced, promoted by the European Commission, with special invoices, special feeders, special aids. However, these measures were in force at the outset, when there was a higher cost for RES and gradually everywhere, they deviate by tendering to give the best prices to the energy system and to the free market. That's what we're doing. The circumstances have changed, the cost has fallen, and we're going to a phased adjustment, we're not going to a sharp release tomorrow morning. We are laying the foundations, respecting the rights of the old and the rights guaranteed by the state, but at the same time laying the foundations for the market and for prices to fall. Because the opposition cannot, on the one hand, criticise the electricity prices and, on the other hand, recommend measures that increase the electricity prices for the average person who currently sees us on television. It's the worst hypocrisy. It doesn't surprise me, because it's your profession, almost. In any case, however, that is the situation. I would also like to note for the RES investors themselves that the bulk of the money is ruining the level. If we go beyond measures, the market leads to distortions like those we have begun to face at this point and the account of the RES itself is undermined. Because it is a account that we all have to support and embrace. We, as government, embrace it and have proceeded with simplifications, move on to other simplifications, bring about arrangements for hybrids and innovative RES, because that is of course the future. The future, however, needs to be built on solid foundations. So we're going to a gradual transition from absolute protection and the feedstuffs, the guaranteed income, that is, gradually on the free market, so as to reduce the impact on consumers who need to care. It's ten million Greeks and we're here for the many, someone has to look at them too. In addition, the RES must make a significant contribution to the fall in energy prices. So what do we do? We say we are going to go to competitions in the way the bill describes and for the period laid down in the bill, 350 MW, to genuinely compete with all those who want to connect, enter the system, so that with competition prices drop. Is it bad? How bad is it that a minister and a government want to drop energy and electricity prices? I'm sorry if we're trying to drop prices. Apologise to all of you. I'm really sorry. I don't know what's got us and we're trying to deal with a people's problem. And you who are defenders of the people are suggesting that the current be increased substantially if we take cash. We are proposing measures for the energy communities to streamline the institution. Yeah, 'cause it's on the wrong basis. Of course, we are in favour of energy communities because they enable people to enter renewable energy sources, the poor. Yes, to the poor! I beg your pardon, however, you have created a regime under which we have up to 18 MW energy communities. Each MW is about 500,000 euros investment. I'm talking with numbers, because at some point patience ends. 18 MW is 9 million euros. How many poor do they need to gather to invest EUR 9 million? Tell me! I don't know, do I have a strange arithmetic? Is it something that should divide us? Do you want to support the poor and say 18 MW and 9 million euros? That's why we're going down the line! That's why! Mercy! I really cannot stand the criticism I have heard for so long. At some point, I'm stirring up inside. We are trying to finish with the tricks, because the energy communities are prioritized to connect to the system. Some capers are being collected - I don't blame them all and obviously it's also the self-government that has its own role, the cooperatives, everyone, although not everyone is the same, but they certainly gather some capers - make such a union, taking advantage of the regulation of SYRIZA, pass all the others in the order, are linked first and the others "hey!" Can we keep this? Is that fair? Is it progressive? What do you stand for? In other words, both the opposition and criticism have some limits. In the end, we are also bringing arrangements with all the restrictions we have, so that there can be a free electric space for competition, for the free market, so that the RES can finally start to operate, as many other sectors of the economy operate, with competition. Whoever has better prices will also sell power. Whoever doesn't have, I'm so sorry. All the other sectors, namely industry, commerce, services, which operate on that logic, what is it? Chazas? Second class Greek and should there be a separate regime? I told you, we're going gradually, but we can't forget that objective. Nor should we forget that due to its privileged position on the map, both for wind and solar energy, Greece can also produce and export to very large quantities of electricity from RES, provided we are competitive. We are not going to export, if we are too expensive and consumers are not going to bear the burden of specific accounts, precisely because there are all these tarifs. So, cocktails, ladies and gentlemen, what features does this arrangement have? It's a weighed setting, because it doesn't go into steep moves, but it interferes at the same time where the thing has reached its point of view. It is a regulation which - obviously - positive for RES and industry interest, but within certain limits, and yet a regulation that gives a decade-long solution to the issue of RES in Greece. On the other hand, as we have a duty, it is a regulation that sees the whole scope of energy, but also the interests of the market and consumers, because consumers are entitled to have better energy prices in Greece. This is our intervention and you are against it. We are proud of this intervention. You continue your demagogic opposition. Good for you and your superiors!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Minister. So we are now going to the Parliamentary Representatives for their dentistry. On behalf of Mera25, Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law entitled 'Modernisation of Spatial and Urban Legislation', which you are bringing today for discussion and resolution, really comes in an extremely unreasonable and uncontrolled situation for the country. I'm talking about the uncontrolled health crisis with our three-digit loss of fellow citizens, both ill and medical and nursing staff, and the loss of police officers, we had recently...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u142	Excuse me a second. Please, ladies and gentlemen, quiet! He speaks a party speaker officially. Please, come out of the Chamber!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u143	We've lived that too!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u144	Excuse me, my colleague, continue!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. So I repeat, Minister, that you are bringing a bill today for discussion and voting at the most inappropriate, at the most unpleasant time for the country, with the tragic loss of people, with the human potential of the helpless, decommissioned, immovable ERC to be on the verge of exhaustion and despair. To this end, we have recently learned from reports that the association of hospital doctors has brought criminal liability to justice and will file a complaint - if it has not already submitted a report against government officials, with a view to investigating criminal liability by government failures and omissions. The ESS is still powerless. The requisitions, for which we have been invoked for private treatments and rehabilitation centres, do not even take place in very red areas, such as the area of Drama. Inadequate infrastructure, therefore, society within the limits of its strength, the economy and the respirator. And of course, we should denounce the fact that the EGE has signed the case. The epidemiological picture, which is presented, is unreasonable precisely because of the delay in transmitting the actual cases to the Committee on Infectious Substances. It is a matter for the Secretary-General of Mera25 to put a timely question to the Prime Minister, but the Prime Minister for the second time does not come to answer a question from the Secretary-General, as he had not come in March in relation to the first wave of the pandemic. In any case, the government and its failures will be judged by public opinion as they have already been judged by doctors. In all, there is even a complaint that while the Prime Minister had announced that he would make the permanentisation of subsidiary hospital doctors, not only has he not made such a commitment, but it is called upon by the subsidiary doctors from the hospital administration to sign an amendment to their contracts, so that ultimately their remuneration is not paid by the state budget but by the ADP. In fact, for this situation, with the enormous health crisis we are facing, with the dispersal of government money in other areas and in private interests, such as 'AEGEAN', we understand that your responsibilities are huge and at some point you will apologize. We do not denounce you, Minister, for the bill you bring, but for the time being that you bring it. This is because, for eight months now, the government has not taken care of other bills, much more urgent for the effective management and management of the pandemic, in which you have proved inappropriate, ineffective. With cursory, regressive and criminal oligopoly, you are dealing with this. The priority given to this bill is therefore truly unacceptable and suspicious. The logic of the provisions follows faithfully the spirit and policy of the bills brought by the Government on labour, as well as on the bankruptcy and the previous environmental bill. So since you have made sure to sell the infrastructure and the public property, since you have made sure that the value of the work itself is diminished, now by this bill you are selling the private property of the numerous small and medium-sized ones. The divestment of private property, which you are now legislating for, is about 80% of the small- and medium-sized Greek citizens, who have small or medium-sized property, and it certainly undermines their own quality of life in the present and future. With the monstrous holiday structure you will turn the country into a suffocating big city, 'tourist city', which of course will be completely lacking in aesthetic because you want to implement it in the context of the development of the Hawaii type, which is really bad taste. This is the prospect that you want to give the country, a country that is built from a steep point of view with tourist facilities, which will then not be demolished and the country will never be able to return to the pretext. Truly, what limitations are we talking about when housing as a whole is allowed and facilitated, as long as they are huge? So what's gonna happen? The enclaved and excluded small-scale owners will sell their land for a piece of bread to investors, which will be able to exploit it at the expense of course and the protection of the environment. There is also another serious issue which demonstrates the disastrous obsessions of this government: there are many, both Greek and international scholars who speak and denounce the dangerous economic dependence on tourism, on the tourism industry. In no case do we question the contribution of the tourist product to the development of the Greek economy. But what we are denounced is the one-sidedness of the development portfolio, which should finally be extended. The resources available must be allocated to other areas of economic development, such as technology, such as research, and not only to the promotion of the tourism industry, whose requirements, in fact, have been subject to a very dangerous opening in the summer without considering the impact on the population, without taking the necessary measures to open up tourism. When, for example, most countries in Europe had imposed on incoming tourists a negative test, when they submitted both the population and the tourists to a massive free test, for which we have called on you many times as MARA25, you only have to open the tourism based on an algorithm, whose credibility is questioned by the whole scientific community. So we shall now proceed to the individual provisions of the bill. The ceiling of the buildings is increased, when the basement is used by 50% as a parking area. In short, parking spaces that have low construction costs and low value with apartments in the penthouse are allowed to be exchanged. Who's going to win all this vagina? It will not, of course, win the public, but neither will the people with low incomes. Only construction companies and contractors will win, because you are setting limits for excavation and attachment. In other words, we will return to the ground floors and ground floors that are transformed into ground floors precisely because of the excess of the slope limits. In maritime planning remove the coastal area in breach of the 7th Barcelona Convention Protocol, which refers precisely to the integrated coastal zone management. In other words, remove from planning a zone that has already demonstrated the enormous impact of climate change. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] By strengthening specific frameworks at all levels - national, regional and local - you dangerously carry local planning at municipal level. It is really incomprehensible how this initiative is in line with the international standard practice of centralised, holistic design. You do not even anticipate central planning, with the risk of overlapping visible and methods that actually favour private initiative. In the fourth chapter you seek to match land use categories with activity numbers, preparing the ground for a new presidential land use decree that will amend the 2018 one that has not yet been implemented. Of course, such a work on the basis of a distorted unification visa seems to liberalise the conditions for the placement of activities with disastrous consequences for the quality of life in cities and in the countryside. I come to the transfer of a factor of construction and a land bank. With regard to the transfer of the building coefficient, you reintroduce a procedure, which the Council of State itself had frozen, thinking that it is allowed only to the border of the municipality, just to avoid extensive urban change. You are even tempting this revival without ensuring that all protected areas are included in the article in question in the exemptions for the installation of a coefficient zone. In the seventh chapter, you are talking about new arbitrariness procedures. It is truly unbelievable that this cycle of endless settlements does not stop. Each time one government pre-electionally announces that it will stop this whole policy and ultimately self-determination. It is unbelievable that a message is given in this way that lacks seriousness and credibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u146	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u147	I shall conclude, Mr President. As far as the amendments are concerned, I am not going to refer specifically to this because we do not give any forgiveness to this permanent practice to bring amendments which are not amendments, which are essentially a whole bill with thirty articles. It's an anti-institutional and abusive practice. We therefore have to condemn this procedure. Finally, in circumstances of high parliamentary culture, I would say that you should withdraw the bill, relaunch an intensive cycle of consultation with the relevant bodies. But these appeals are never heard by the government. You do not accept the amendments that we are bringing you because you consider it hasty, but your amendments you want us to vote for them. I therefore call on all colleagues to condemn, in their vote, the dangerous policies of the government, as promoted by this bill, and, of course, the anti-institutional procedures which make parliamentary dialogue a reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Hetas, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u149	Mr President, thank you. There's not much left to talk about the bill. You will allow me, because the figures are ruthless, Minister, to refer to some figures that were known a little while ago, and unfortunately for our country it is something that we have expected and stressed. No matter how much cooking you tried to do the previous time with the numbers, no matter how much you cook them, the numbers are vague and tell the truth. ELSTAT. No Greek Solution. ELSTAT. No, El - Solution. 11.7% is the recession in the third quarter of 2020. It's scary numbers, it's something we've been expecting, because it was the quarter where there was tourism in it and we said it. You celebrated for reasons of communication and not substance, because the essence was that we waited for this precipitation, it was nothing unexpected. It is only today that it is already certified and is proved in practice with ELSTAT's official figures. I will only mention, for example, that exports of goods have decreased 44.9% compared to the third quarter of 2019, while exports of services have decreased by 80% compared to the third quarter of 2019. That's what ELSTAT says. This is the economy in Greece, in our country right now, and this is tomorrow that we will be asked to deal with so that we can give the world the pillows to survive now and not do anything else. It's some things that you're making a little weird, Mr. Minister and gentlemen of the government. With these horizontal measures you're taking you've strangled the economy, and at some point the system could work. It is not everywhere the flushing of the virus as strong as it is in Athens or Thessaloniki. So, Monday we can buy for example Christmas balls and ornaments, so you can go conspiring, but you can't go get clothes, socks or a jacket if you're cold. It's a little absurd. We're dealing with a governmental offense - if I may - the expression. I mean, you can go on Monday and go shopping lights, but you can't go and get glossies. One thing, the other one. Now let's go to the effort that's done, because it's a very serious matter. I will choose the minutes that I have, Mr President, two, three more minutes to deal with issues that are really important, are of concern to us and will be of concern to us tomorrow. Today we had a bomb. Mr Burlas has been released. It's Mr. Burla's bomb! He is Mr Albert Burlas, CEO of the PFIZER. Let's go for the vaccine now! Do you know what he said, Minister? He did not tell SKAI. He told it at the 'NBC NEWS' on the US network. Do you know what the man said a while ago when he was called to answer if anyone can transmit the virus after the vaccination? If anyone gets vaccinated, can it transmit the virus, yes or no? And he answers: "I think this is something that needs to be considered. We are not sure of that on the basis of what we know. There are still many unanswered questions." He said it himself! So how are we doing now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u150	And?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u151	And? You're not worried about that!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u152	Shouldn't we be vaccinated?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u153	The CEO of PFIZER says this himself, you feel sure about the vaccine. You're right. Also, Mr Jesse Gutman of the University of Georgetown, Washington, was also responsible for the vaccine department of the United States Food and Drug Service - it is not Mariocin, but he has a human title - he said that there are still unanswered questions as to whether the vaccine will prevent the serious disease and the complications of COVID -19. We also do not know to what extent it will prevent infections or simply reduce the symptoms after the infection and we do not know how well it will work for the elderly who are and vulnerable groups in the coronary. We'll tell you all about this so you don't call and call it faked or stupid people who have an insecurity for tomorrow. We don't tell people not to be vaccinated. We say when we're sure whoever they want to be vaccinated. That is what we say and not compulsory. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude with two points, Mr President, and thank you very much. It shows the functioning of the system and how the account, Mr President, is always paid by Greek citizens. What's happened now? The European Court of Justice, condemned Greece, the Greek Government for tolerance, indifference and encouragement of their occupation at the CITY PLAZA Hotel illegal immigrants over SYRIZA administration. What did the European Court of Justice do? He imposed 312,000 euros on Greece. Question: Who will pay for this? Who's gonna pay this money, 312,000 euros? In other words, on a CITY PLAZA hotel there were illegal immigrants staying illegally, in New Democracy at the hotel they will continue to reside illegally invade immigrants, only now they are paying NGOs from now on. The fine who's gonna pay for it? Again, the Greek people. That's why we're saying transferring everyone to uninhabited islands with structures. We have tabled a proposal, a study to transfer them to uninhabited islands, so that these people do not suffer even in inhumane living conditions. Because you're not more humanists than we are to sell it politically. And I'm closing, Mr. President. I told Mr Chrysochide a moment ago in the Committee on Public Administration and Justice, as regards the draft law on the penitentiary system. I believe that the political system must stand up to the circumstances. All parties to stand up to the circumstances. To listen to society, the Greek citizens who are in a difficult position, closed in the homes, with huge financial problems, and to avoid any course, protest, protest on Sunday's anniversary of Gregopoulou. We said it about November 17th, we say it for now. Attention! And the Ministry of Citizen Protection must stand up to expectations and respect the incarcerated Greek citizens. Let us show the utmost seriousness and respect this long-standing Greek people. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikos Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President. The spatial planning and the ones provided for in the new bill, like the previous governments, serves the anarchy in land use. It serves anarchy in the way of organizing a whole social space. And don't deny that. You are 'in favour' of the non-building project, gentlemen of the government. You are 'in favour' of the out-of-building project, because you are even allowed to give bonuses, an additional factor of construction in the complex tourist accommodations, that is to say, the business groups that will gather the land of those who have small parcels. So concentrate the land in the hands of a few and reward them to be able to proceed to the off-site construction project. You are defenders of anarchy in positioning and not just you, but previous governments. The image presented by wind parks is broken in areas where there is a high wind load is a characteristic example. Mountain tumors are destroyed. Destroy forest land. There is too much wind parks in some parts - overconcentration - just because they will have greater efficiency and greater profit. In fact, there are too many complaints that they are responsible for altering the environment. They are responsible for altering the natural catchment area of water resources and creating flooding phenomena. The example of St. Euphemia in Kefalonia is characteristic. Once the wind park was created, it is drowned every year, because the solution of the water was changed, as was shaped by nature. Now there's more going on and they're falling into the inhabited areas. You are 'in favour' of the anarchy of the placement of tourist accommodation and other business activities, based on what is of interest to investors and what is of benefit to business plans. And of course, the Minister who said yesterday that our spatial planning is taking a step further in facilitating investment projects and adapting land use to these projects. He's right about this, but that's what SYRIZA did as government and previous parties. SYRIZA even put a special landfill on strategic investments. You go a step further in this direction, so we say that we are in the opposite. Because the spatial planning you make and the urban plan are subject to the needs of the development of the capitalist economy and business groups and not to the fulfilment of people's needs. These two concepts are incompatible. They cannot compromise, Minister, and there are plenty of examples that confirm this. So let's see what you're doing more specifically. Concentrate the earth and not only concentrate it in a few hands, but you also change the uses of land, thus destroying productive potential to develop other productive potential. You are destroying the productive potential available in our country and which could satisfy people's needs if they were exploited. Secondly, you are granting public land to the large business groups for their exploitation and profitability. You grant mountain tumors, forest lands, shores and cauliflower on the basis of what the great capital is worth. Thirdly, you are destroying the environment, even though you say that you are in favour of green development and environmental protection. There are cases where you are destroying the environment and others that are adapting the environment to the interests, to the plans of tourist businesses and to the tourist package in general. Fourthly, it is at the expense of satisfying people's needs, in terms of building and organising the social area as a whole, free spaces for the people in the large urban centres. Did you take any initiative? What you said is that the reserved spaces for over eight years of commitment will be declassified, since the mayors have no money to compensate them, instead of you as a government and as a state that cuts the funding of the municipalities or that municipalities are directing money differently to other priorities, regenerations rather than the creation of free spaces, you should raise the question that here the free spaces, public spaces should be shaped in order to improve the level of life of the most degraded people's neighbourhoods in the large urban areas. This is not the case, however. You cannot do it, because the earth is of great value and you want to bring it together and use it for the benefit of business interests. And in order not to get far with the issues of spatial planning, I will set an example. I visited Berlin a few years ago. It seems the difference in how they organized the space in eastern Berlin with the west. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No connection whatsoever to what the needs of the people in East Berlin were satisfying, and what free spaces existed in relation to West Berlin, where the value of the land was very great, and that is why it also concentrated on fewer hands and lived stacked on each other as opposed to East Berlin. So here is the diversity of the logic of socialist planning and the use and use of spatial planning and town planning as a tool for meeting needs. So it's a political issue and not a technocratic one in how I use spatial planning and planning. Let us now move on to the RES amendment. The first issue is to discuss defoliation. As a JRC, we are opposed to liberation for too many reasons. The first reason is that the political choice of liberation is the result of the green agreement at European Union level, which you accept as a red line all the other parties, you, SYRIZA, the Change Movement. And why is the European Union doing this? Because it has a lack of fossil resources to enable it to meet its energy needs and to exploit its comparative advantage in renewables, in so-called green technology and to find outlets of overcompensated funds by destroying black energy infrastructure, so to speak, dirty energy for the benefit of clean energy. Therefore, it does not relate to environmental protection and it is hypocritical that you as government, but also the European Union for the environment, which restricts it only to climate change and not to other activities. Secondly, we are opposed and say that interest is hypocritical, it is a hypocritical concern, because at the same time that you want to abolish lignite plants, you are a premium for the creation of a plant for the incineration of waste. Isn't that where he leaves a print on the environment? A question that affects and affects the environment and highlights your hypocrisy. All these projects, the RES, which have taken place over the past decades and which now have stopped their life limit, cannot work any longer, where will the shells of these units go? Thirdly, while they have a clean print and are a renewable source of energy, hydroelectric projects, hydroelectric dams do not finance them, you do not go ahead with them when Greece has a rich water resource that is lost because it does not interest investors. Next issue of our opposition, for you are thus destroying the only domestic source of fossil fuel that is lignite. And not only are you destroying it, but you are substituting it with imported fossil fuel, natural gas, intensifying our country's energy dependence. You say it's a transitional stage and the previous SYRIZA government said so. Fourth point, you have given hundreds of billions of dollars over these decades to promote the RES in order to support the RES. If you were to give a fraction of this amount that you gave of taxpayers' money, that is to say, to support the RES in modernising lignite plants and making use of the new technology to burn lignite, the environmental footprint would be too small and there would be no problem. The fifth element we are opposed to defoliation is unemployment, which will come into great strata in both western Macedonia and Megalopolis. The sixth issue is energy poverty for the people, because electricity tariffs will be increased even further. After all, the results of the RES have been seen in the past decades. We, as a JRC, are not opposed to the use of RES. They are in what hands they are in and what interests they want to serve. And from this point of view, the dialogue and the ping-Pong which took place today and yesterday between the Government and the Civic Opposition on the special contribution to RES units for a year and which can be transferred and burdened by popular strata is nothing more than a redistribution effort made by the government among the various operators involved in the RES, making the most of the much larger companies. Of course, he has said so and today the Minister will provide resources to support the RES, such as the Green Fund. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And you come with the same amendment and put a new fee of EUR 30 per kilogram of diesel, which, in essence, the General Accounting Office of the State says it will have an annual valuation of EUR 108 million. In other words, you will take from the people's layers, primarily, 108 million to finance entrepreneurs, predators operating in the RES and at the same time reduce the excise duty on energy-intensive industries from 2.5% to 2%, since they have consumed more than ten thousand megawatts. So what is the result on the substance? The result of this policy on the substance will be the worsening of the position of the people's family, increasing energy poverty and supporting business groups. That is why we, as a JRC, also voted against this bill, tabled a roll-call vote in principle, and on the articles concerning out-of-build construction and the provocative privileges you give to the tourist chapter and the amendment on defoliation and promotion of RES. Thank you very much, Mr President, and tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u156	Thank you too, Mr. Karathanasopou. Mr. Andreas Loverdos has the floor as a Parliamentary representative from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u157	Please, if you can inform the Minister. I'd like the Minister to be inside, because I'm addressing him, so I'm waiting for him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u158	The Undersecretary is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u159	No, it's the government here. I don't have a problem. I wanted to talk to him. Anyway! Yesterday, in the Minister's speech, there was an inconsistent criticism of the Change Movement. Really, he's inconvenienced! He said that we who, some years ago as the Papandreou government, protected the NATURA regions, how did we now put 'astronomy' and such a reform we call 'no'? And I told him that if we catch one in one of the sections of the draft law, his criticism is not justified. You will allow me, Minister, to refer more specifically than yesterday to my dentistry today. Firstly, let's go to the renewables. One unity. You have brought the amendment. What is the result of the RES regulations, especially in PVCs and especially for farmers? What's the matter? The absolute government mess, with terrible consequences to investors, to small investors. You told them to invest in photovoltaics at first. Then you told them to make energy communities. You then gave unlimited priority to the energy communities. But then you limited the unlimited priority of energy communities and gave unlimited priority, this time again, to self-production. It's blocked the system. Then you told the small and energy communities to connect to the high voltage. You have then published a press release which has introduced an extraordinary contribution, with which you have given it as an incentive to take it back. And then, until it becomes the law press release, you are rechanging legislation with the amendment. I ask, speaking of energy communities and farmers. These people who have suffered the costs of their investment, under your own law, April 2020, why would they lose their money? I didn't understand, I mean. And why does this prove the institutional intervention and the reformist attitude of the government? The opposite arises because there is economic insecurity. You do not know the conditions under which you invest, that is, legal certainty, as we call it legal. And why is that reform? And why is this proof of an institutionality in political operation? It's exactly the opposite. You don't care about these people? Isn't it part of the country's attempt to come out of the recession? What are they? Why should they be subject to your own policy changes, so many policy changes within so few months? It's proof of sloppy and indifference to the world. That is what I know of myself, which is easier to find, in this way, with reasonable arguments and always speaking in favour of institutional change and reforms, which I have always served during my political life, I am critical of. So it is very reasonable now, Mr Secretary, to make some decisions in one rather than one by extending the deadline for the completeness of the dossiers submitted for six months. Instead of 31-12-2020, now we'll go until June. It is perfectly logical and it does not have half an unreasonable request. They also call for people to apply to themselves when they have an investment that produces a small amount, 1 MW, to be able to have a deadline by the end of next year and not by June. This proves at least one concern to balance the injustice resulting from your interventions. One of the prisoners. Second inmate, we talked about it yesterday, but I don't have time to develop it again. I was thinking if anyone on the outside structure wants to be a real reformer, they have two choices. One choice to say what a lot of people say. I share that, Mr. Undersecretary. If I were you, that's what I'd have attempted. How, by allowing more construction, you can gain greater protection for the environment, because of people’s own attitudes in favour of their interests. It's a line. Another more institutional, more certain: out of plan construction will be organised. And you come into that logic, too. It's a version. I have to respect her. But when you see what your problems are coming and how many protests you have, then you are giving transitional periods and here is where the slut starts. I now have an observation from Chania - and I will not go back to yesterday's amendment - which concerns four or more acres, which remain well after your change. It says, therefore, that they have to deal with the blurred landscape, because there is no transitional adjustment time and are threatened - and you are threatened - with various loss-making and vulnerable situations. For permits, for example, which have already been issued and which want to be revised, what is happening in this case? And for permits filed in towns what will apply until permits are issued, if this law is valid? I'm closing up with a third topic. I always speak from the point of view of reforms. I never speak in terms of delays, inconsistencies, customer relations. Well, I might be a little close to you. It says here about proposed changes in the setting-up of a central building service. Where the regional authorities are delayed, the centre will take over them, the Ministry will take care of them. I like these. When I was Minister of Health and the hospitals had unbearable pressure from the lack of nurses, I had from your previous government three thousand recruits ready, for which legal control had to be imposed. I made him myself in one afternoon. One afternoon! I took the weight of my signature and in a few days the hospitals had these three thousand people. If I left the services, we'd have seven and eight months. So I see these with sympathy. First of all, if you were institutionally all right, you should have brought the ministerial decision on which Article 1 of the amendment is authorised. You haven't brought her. We don't know who's signing, we don't know who's got a final signature. If the Minister has a final signature, I would remind him that a revision of the Constitution was made a few months ago, Article 86 was abolished on the short deadline for depreciating Parliament's ability to prosecute Ministers and has been normally made for the felony 15 years. Anyone who signs, if you authorize yourself, also keep in mind that he will have a possible suffering for fifteen years. Also, why is this service going to run fast? Why are the deadlines, which you put them, of twenty days, to be taken from the service, not from you, as exclusive? As long as the law puts it, the courts consider it to be indicative. Why are you going fast with this? You're not telling us. It is an act that is supposed to have an institutionality within it and a reformist mood, but in practice it does not. That is why we are criticising, and that is why we have not received any response. As far as the Minister was concerned, he was referring to others, not to us. He was hitting windmills, talking from the point of view of market freedom, speaking from the point of view of reforms. But when we ask for clarification in this House about the reforms he proposes, he does not give them to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u160	Can I take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u161	You want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u162	I want to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u163	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u164	I would like to say the following. On the first point raised by Mr. Loverdes, that is, what is going on with the licenses in the process, they do come out with the old ones...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u165	And the to be reviewed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u166	Yes, what has already been submitted is in a process, that is, something has started, it goes with the present ones. My assessment is that the way the wording is, it covers it. If he doesn't cover it, we'll change it. I think he's covering it. We are committed, however, because there may have been a mistake. I understand he's covering it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u167	And the process...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u168	And in a process. But the process has begun. Is that right? I think we've got the law-making we've got, we've got it covered. I keep a reservation. If we don't cover it, we'll do it right away. But that is clearly the intention. The second point for the CSCE is that for the fifteen years I had not taken note of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u169	Who's signing them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u170	Look at that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u171	Don't sign any...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u172	I get it. I have no intention of making scandals, despite what Mr Paulakis said yesterday, and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u173	It's not a matter of yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u174	What you said about the deadline could be my fault. I personally commit that we will see this provision. In any case, the CYDOM will enter the office of the Ministry, which will be held by a presidential decree. And we'll get it right away. She can't work for herself. He may have legal errors, he may have such mistakes that are not exactly legal, but essentially. I promise that whatever I'm convinced we'll do it. In other words, with the presidential decree, if there is a need for legislative change, there will also be a legislative change. The rest for the C.E.D. I'll tell you what the reason was. However, for the moment, I am in this particular remark. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u175	The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mrs Theophiste Perka, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin with a reference to the amendment tabled by Mr Kikilias. I think he's making fun of us. We tabled an amendment to the doctors' newspapers that you very much applauded and instead asked for money for volunteers? It's not that we're against. I asked a question yesterday. Do you accept this amendment, that these doctors should be paid for at least? But it is the same idea that, "It is money thrown away, because what are we going to do to them?" I'm talking about hires. I would also like to say about the transfer of the property to the Municipality of Marathon, which is the right move. But we cannot understand why it should be paid by the Special Firear Relief Account. Here's one last new one, today. The recession, he says, is at 11.7% in the third quarter of tourism, i.e. I point it out - and the losses of over 5 billion. I don't want to do Cassandra and tell you we've been telling you. We have also made whole proposals for tourism, how, in other words, tourism would be safely opened and how you risked the issue of public health without, it seems, financial results. But I'll say the other one. We have made proposals to you - 'We are standing up', 'We are staying upright II' - because this government has the advantage of having an escape clause, of having the emergency measures from the European Union and, of course, the reserve of 37 billion left as a government. In fact, you were the first to take stock. However, you have found the pandemic and used it as an opportunity to deregulation the labour market, increase unemployment, and many padlocks. Besides, the Pissaridis plan says so. It provides for a drastic restriction on small and medium-sized enterprises because, he says, the small size of enterprises in the country works inhibit productivity. Our proposals were precisely to strengthen demand, to stand up and supply with support for small and medium-sized enterprises. However, these results have now been recorded. I'm on it. Listen, Ministers, because I cannot every time apologise if I am against investment or in favour, whether I am against the public or in favour, if we are on liberation, if we are with the outside project, do you want to speak seriously and very well? There is political differentiation. It's very clear. And if we were to discuss this in here, it might have been very productive. You say, 'I believe that the economy will go well if I make good arrangements for tourism' - for example - and we say to you, 'it is not so well because the product and the environment plays a very important role'. It would be a serious conversation. We are talking about design tools, we are talking about integrated design, not holes, not gifts, because this is not how investment is done. We have, moreover, a tragic example to which I shall refer briefly. But we are also talking about participation. We respect local government, even though most mayors are from your home. You don't hear them on any level. You're pulling them out. So gifts and withdrawal of the state from its traditional role. This also does not promote neither the economy nor, obviously, the public interest and society. Here's a record coordinator again. And that's done in every bill. It's not just that. We therefore say that public administration is a very, very serious tool. The greatest task a government can do is to have a public administration which, in fact, fulfils its role, but not to take responsibility and manage it. I said before that I would refer to a very specific example. I'm talking about the Greek, an investment you started without any design. However, having out of plan in the country, the fact that there was never planning was a political choice over time of your governments because gifts are easily given when there is no order. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need some more time, of course. Here you have an arrangement, which I would like you to answer. You won't get away. In a previous bill, a dividend of the right to land without the permission of Mr - a gift! - So to sell what? It comes today in the bill second regulation that sells tourist dwellings, since it allows co-ownership hotels. That's not the way the investments go. At the same time, millions are being lost - the Minister told us about energy - because of high tenders, and the price of wholesale trade as a whole is being borne. PPC has over-profit and reaches 166%. I don't have time to analyze them. Since yesterday we owe you a piece of paper that says that our country is in the dozens of the most expensive countries in electricity. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theophistis (Peter) Perka, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And because you have told us a lot about PPC and the reforms, I will say, Minister, that: Watch our last year's proposals and you will find too many answers. SYRIZA made serious reforms: both the energy communities and the separation of trade - production and competitive processes for the RES. Now you are relocating the ELAP deficit, which was created with your own choice. You wanted to hide power increases in September 2019 to consumers, businesses, small producers. We will, however, be serious here. The rapporteur of the New Democracy said that this story with the degree zones is a foundation. My congratulations! Only we have made the floor and now we go to the foundation, because the mandate and the opinion of the Prime Minister for liberation has given signal. Already in my area they migrate young people and close units. And the defoliation zones, which - listen a little - want to set up advisory committees, by decision of the RIS and to sign a programme contract with PPC that will pass through the House. PPC will launch competitions for the preparation of studies on specific urban projects. The receipt of the studies will require assent from the advisory bodies. Therefore, it will be necessary for the competent authorities to check this out in order to give their opinions. A presidential decree will be issued after the relevant public consultation, approved by the Board of Directors, the decision of the Board of Directors will be cleared, so that the specific planning plans for the RES are adopted. How long does it take? It ends in 2020 and in 2023 it was supposed to be all. Listen, what's going on in the area is unacceptable. Minister, we really - and we have made a request to be discussed here - the master plan has read it all. It says that prerequisites are spatial planning and land restoration. Here we see a terrain not even with proposing, which is for each use - studies seriously - we also see a stiffness. You have now given an extension for the small RES that the inhabitants of the region are going to make. No consultation, no participation. The territorial plans that will be financed - not by the master plan - are still being prepared and have not been seen. Local society, not us, mayors. Nobody knows. You started at the top. It's a disaster. I will close with this because I don't have much time: it's unfair for an area that supported this entire project, which has been erased apart that it's still unwittingly in the mines, instead of starting with public investment from them. Now, yesterday, since you announced the frustration. Start rehabilitation studies. We are not against frustration, but we are against the destruction of the place. There can be a serious design. There are examples from abroad how these things are done. The Fair Transfer Fund has a regulation called 'participation', which says that when you go to large-scale investments, you have to explain why it is as large and you don't do small scales like energy. Energy communities, Minister, are only one reference to a footage on the master plan. There aren't any. Well, they're not going to be the bodies of the transition two - three big companies, and the local society will stay outside, we won't allow it. Nor can you commit the country, and indeed an area that pays for its link to lignite, be rebound without a timetable for gas release. Can't in Florinna cut the district heating and go natural gas for domestic use. They laugh abroad with them. That's what they're laughing at. The whole of Europe is investing in innovation, from the metro tunnel to teletherings, and we here, the area that paid so expensively - and go visit it and go to the mines together, see, and the villages that have broken their homes and cannot be relocated, and the expropriations still to be paid. In any case, what is being done is very tragic. Two - three major investments, under a special economic area - I remind you of Thrace, where this has been done again and where the shells have been kept, because they have eaten the subsidies and left - and no local society has been involved. He wants motives, young scientists, a startup, energy communities, with the mayors. We have proposals, there are local bodies. But not what's going on. They're here today, and I'm glad they came, but it's too late. On what territory will these investments, in anticipation of an empire, be placed? With what restoration? For what use? I would ask you once again to bring the matter to the committee, to discuss it. We want to help, after all - we're supposed to have a common goal. Minister, we're not saying you're bad people. I just tried to say that there are political differences and let us discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, too. Before I give Mr Bukouros the floor, the Minister wants to make legislative improvements. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u178	It is indeed a last point, which is the reason for Mr Vlacho's irritation beforehand. Mr Economou had promised at the meeting of committees a legislative improvement for education in the Mediterranean Zone, it was received by mistake and is now being tabled. So your questions are resolved too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Bukkaro, you didn't have any protology. Therefore, I will give you the time of your prototype and if necessary you will be extended, although you are always brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, the bill has been thoroughly discussed. We were expecting more tension in the bill, the intensity finally recorded was for the amendments. You will allow me, Mr President, to begin by saying two - three things, because here we have the opposition, which, when we are in the process of proposing amendments, accounts for the wrong legalisation and a service of interest, when the amendments are not accepted, tell us why the amendments are not accepted. The amendment is an additional piece of legislation, which gives MEPs the right to deal with some urgent issues, through a content that does not conflict with the existing legal framework, some omissions by the ministries and ministers who have the legislative initiative and, in any case, horizontal measures are never fair measures. It is right that the Minister, each minister, not the current, Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Economou, say that if thirty and forty amendments are accepted, concerning the insect, content, the bill, the spirit and the letter of the law being passed are at risk. That is why I would say that the amendments relating to other matters should of course also be considered by the co-legislative ministers and that this right should not be removed in the face of urgent problems by means of this particular method of legislating. Ultimately, opposition when it is government brings the amendments down. When opposition wants only its own amendments to be accepted because it is facing urgent issues, I do not doubt it, but when amendments are tabled by the governmental parliamentarians too, they too are in trouble. And we can all understand, Minister, that a wide-ranging legislative improvement can involve an amendment, as important as an amendment. So these have been discussed. There is no parliament in the world that does not vote for amendments, no Members are tabling amendments. Otherwise, Members would listen blindly and without any objections to what the Minister says and their only role would be to vote. There's always a dialogue. But to alter the whole bill from the whole of the amendments, and that is not the right way to legislate. As far as I am concerned, the amendments that deal with urgent matters and have little to do with the infancy of the bill are less safe. This can be done by dialogue, by exhaustive processing in committees, by internal dialogue, by consultation, even at the last minute with legislative improvements, if we want some sort of order to come in. Now, for the bill, Minister, I sincerely hear you take the land from the small ones, give it to the large ones and so on, that it is counter-environmental, that it regulates absolutely nothing, that is a sterile criticism, as is the case with other issues. We have already heard here about the explosion of unemployment because of COVID -19 and the lockdown, which is currently in force, but also in the recent past, but we have had a timely question from the JRC this morning and we have answered that one of the first laws that this government has passed is, during the measures, banning workers' redundancies and protecting work. But let me not go far with the general - although I am forced to listen to other parliamentary representatives and as a kind of response we must always say some things - but let me go to the bill. The bill, ladies and gentlemen, does not prohibit off-site construction, but puts it in some order with specific timetables, accompanies these decisions with specific tools to get some order into the off-site building. Who told you that tomorrow's local town planning plans of alpha or beta municipality will not allow construction even in fields less than four acres? Local communities and municipalities concerned are responsible for regulating their homes. And they have every opportunity, even if they do not belong to island municipalities or municipalities of great tourist importance. And this should make every local society through the municipal council and the mayor, quickly promote these tools called "local town plans", so that each member of the local community can know what he can do and what is not and especially how he can make use of his small or larger property. Telling everyone here in this Chamber that we are opposed to outsourcing, but do not legislate, institutionalize nothing, do not create any tools to get this process into some order. Because, as a politician says, of course, Minister, the Greeks have been building a plan for many decades out of plan, but they have been building it, you can be certain, a plan that each one draws up for himself. And this, if you would like, is true and there is this logic for geomorphological, historical, social reasons, the unit, the citizen who had the right to be a citizen and to protect his property, his estate, his home, his lot, very small, and all these issues, which we know historically and have been found on the historical route, many times with positive, but sometimes, when it comes to building, spatial planning, unreasonable construction, with negative consequences. So that comes, ladies and gentlemen, and makes a first organized and structured effort, putting administrative deadlines. Will these deadlines be respected? No law, Mr. Rapporteur of Antipopulation, is written in stone. The law changes by law, that's well known. But there's been an effort from somewhere to start. Is this an initiative of the central authority alone? Legislative initiative, yes, but it calls for all administrative units to participate and, above all, the first cell of our democracy, which is self-government and is more rapid - because it has never been banned - the process of drafting local town plans to regulate things and to know what and where. What should concern us in the near future, Minister, is not only where we are building - this is regulated, an attempt is made to regulate with your own law - but also how we build, namely, the quality of construction, the architectural environment of each region and all these issues, without going to over-regulations and, above all, the quality of construction we are doing and in what direction these constructions are. So, will classical buildings with passive buildings have a zero environmental footprint? No, it's the law here. We give incentives and higher rates for environmentally friendly buildings. Let's go to passive buildings sometime when it comes to their environmental footprint. From there on, in my view, there are also a number of issues which were really awkward for the citizens. So, the temporal expropriations were working in the country? An unfortunate fellow citizen of mine in Volos - and it is true history - had a unique asset, beyond the house where he lived, a plot somewhere in the city of Volos, which was bound by four different municipal authorities. How many years? More than twenty-five without ever being compensated. What did that man get? How could he regulate his life? It was his legitimate asset, inherited by his father. Here comes the first mayor, he commits it, the second municipal council renegotiates it, the third and so on. Shouldn't a roof be set up to the potential of local government, if you like, to capture a citizen and effectively dedicate his property? If this does not regulate a modern and democratic state, what can it regulate? And in any case, before going to forced orbital expropriation, let's make sure that his funds are filled up. Let him make his programming, let him join the programs he needs or in a reasonable period of time. We can all know what the reasonable time is. However, it is neither the twenty-five years nor the twenty-five years, because in twenty-five years and the value of the property can be dramatically reduced and the living conditions can change the same dramatically. So why do you disagree with this arrangement? The debate on the non-planned construction has been limited. Two years, then, to permit us and four the validity of our licence is six, one year hypothetical delay in archaeology, one year delay in the Forestry office, a total of eight years. In these eight years, if the legal requirements are complied with, local town plans will have been completed throughout the territory. Of course, no law, Minister, has been fully verified over time. But in any case, I said beforehand that no law is written in stone. And improvements can also change administrative deadlines and change the law itself from another future government. But this is where we have the opportunity to start - let me speak - to house things. To start with, with time schedules, with tools, provisions of law, etc. Of course, in terms of out-of-planning, to close this chapter, nothing changes to the four acres other than the building factor at 10%, which, if you want, symbolically more, in my view limits the potential for building. It provides the complex tourist accommodation with greater possibilities and higher rates. And very well, in my view, ladies and gentlemen. I am not one of those who believe that, because tourism failed, we have to write it down in Greece. It's our comparative advantage. It is like having a shop, we have two very good customers - in this case, tourism and the primary sector - but we are looking to find other customers. Of course, we'll seek to find other customers while maintaining the existing customer log. Are we going to get rid of those who are involved in GDP? The Parliamentary spokesman of the Officerial Response spoke earlier about 11.7% recession in the third quarter, which is tourism. But, of course, since we have only replaced 25% compared to 2019. And while you were telling us that we were late to open tourism, now you blamed us for opening tourism. Ultimately, we don't catch you anywhere: Single - pairs of yours, let me speak! Of course, it's 11.7% the recession in the third quarter. Do we know what tourism is? Finally, the overall recession will be somewhere on the European Union's average, and this has been said not by the Greek Government, but by all the European institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u181	How old is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u182	He'll tell you, Mr. Loverdos, this is Mr. Staruras. I'm not responsible for telling you. Simplification of land use, transfer of the building coefficient. Another unfortunate fellow citizen, retainable his building and very well maintained by the 1978 law. We must maintain our cultural and architectural heritage. But in relation to his neighbor, who is not kept in the building, does this fellow citizen lose over time? Does he have the financial potential to sustain it? Because he wants his preserve, his neoclassical and so on. keep it. There is the possibility of a transfer of a build-up factor, not to speculate, but to maintain it. We all know that the maintenance of a maintained building is infinitely more expensive than the maintenance of any other building. Withdrawal of buildings, expropriation of taxes, fine for the Land register. It is given in six months after the law was passed, as well as the one year extension for the areas that joined the Register before 2006. There, Ministers, I would ask you, in particular, for old areas that were included in the register. There are all over Greece and I am now thinking about the island of Alonissos. There are several structural problems that arise in historical reasons for the existence of notarial acts, etc. It is a very special case on the island of Alonissos - I suspect that Mr. Economou knows it better - about the Land register. Perhaps there is a need for decisions and longer deadlines. I repeat, for the island of Alonissos. I'm not talking about the island of Skopelos or the island of Skiathos. There socio-economic reasons have led to a situation that even today, in the 21st century, despite the fact that it is land that has been cultivated for centuries not for generations, there is a shortage of contracts, a lack of titles. There was another possibility. It was basically the Alonissus enslaved to the Ottoman Empire. However, because there was no Turkish presence on the island, some other conditions were created, which, unfortunately, are maintained to this day. The state must come - I don't know if it becomes a law for an island, I imagine not - to allow this very growing island of alternative tourism to settle matters for the citizens, who are in the jungles of long-term judicial struggles and bureaucratic procedures. The regulation of the arbitrary is also a useful provision. In any case, Minister, I thought there would be tension for the innermost of the bill. There was some weak argument from the Opposition. Of course, welcome is expected. There have been tensions about the amendments. I hope that your bill will be good and that it will be the beginning of regulating such top-level developmental, social issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u183	Thank you too, Mr. Buquoir. The Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Economou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 320 A]] A number of new issues have been raised. I won't say the words again. A subject which comes back in various ways is the subject of the CYROM, the Central Building Agency. Let's see what this is all about. The intervention we are making with the CSCE today is only part of an overall intervention that is being made in the whole system of construction services. What is the situation today? In theory today, building permits are issued by the municipality's construction services. For three hundred thirty-three, three hundred-five municipalities - how many do we have? - We should have so many HR. How many HRs do we have today? Approximately one-third. After so many years only one third of the municipalities have been created. The other municipalities are covered with support from adjacent, adjacent or even less adjacent municipalities. How are those hundred and thirty-five HYDROs there? Most of them are subordinated. There's HEDO that only have one engineer. To be correct, an HYDRO must have basic engineering specialities, which are four to five. Inside HYTOMs, which have only one engineer until recently was the HOME of Santorini, that is, an island which also has huge building service, but also huge importance for Greek tourism and huge environmental importance. So the situation in Hydram was evidently extremely problematic in this respect. It was problematic from a second point of view. Each HYDRO inclined and had the right to make different interpretations of urban legislation. And he did. In some cases, even, there were exchanges between HYDROs. Don't go any further. I can easily explain this if I have to. The result is that the same provisions in different areas and in different stakeholders were interpreted differently. I've been at the Ministry for a year and a half since I've been around twenty such cases, which are scandalous, because they can't both have a different interpretation for the same thing. They may be both wrong, but they can't both be right. I tried to interfere. I didn't do it once. Citizens, i.e., have been afflicted for months or years by such contradictory interpretations of HYDROs. This is the current situation. I'll give you a parentheses here. Similarly to some degree, not exactly the same, situation exists in the Architecture Councils. And the situation in the Architecture Councils and the situation in HYDOM throws in the last Doing Business in Greece only ten positions from this situation. Because they caught the ERM and the Architecture Councils, they made some indicators and we were exposed. This means that the country's attractiveness for foreign direct investment is reduced, but Greek investment is also difficult. More importantly, it is also difficult for every citizen who wants to make a building permit and has faith or does not succeed, because he falls victim to either the lack of staffing and the subsequent delays or misinterpretations, let me say so. So, what do we do for the HYDROs? We do things. We're not just doing the Central Building Agency. Firstly, we anticipated and already entered a law passed a month ago - it was the Ministry of the Interior, but we did so in collaboration, because it is the co-responsibility of the two ministries in some way on the question of building services - that the municipalities' LAGs may exist, but, if they really want to exist, they must have at least documented and certified specific staff from five engineers. Without five engineers you can't have. Those who exist and don't have five engineers and don't get them in the next semester will be shut down. This story cannot continue at the expense of both citizens and investment. All the municipalities will have the HYDROs. What are the others gonna do? They cannot go to the adjoining municipalities, because the municipalities next door and react and they do not have the opportunity to cover others. So we are building in every region or region - in some cases, logical - a regional HSB, let's say it, which will cover all municipalities that do not have their own HSBs. Of course, if a municipality in the future manages to acquire the five engineers and build its own HYDRO, it will be able to do so. But for now, we're going to serve the regional HSB and it's easier than to serve three hundred HSBs. Three hundred thirty HLOM need a thousand five hundred mechanics wholesale. Fifty-five regional units in the RAG require two hundred fifty. They're the ones we'll find. Others cannot find them so easily or in the visible time. So this is a measure that has already been taken and in the first half of 2021 it will be implemented. Second meter. We make it compulsory for the municipality's LAGs to accept as binding the instructions that come from the Central Ministry in matters of different interpretations for the same provision. The Minister won't do it alone. KESYTOTHIA will do so, a body that has a full composition with lawyers and engineers and civil servants and free professionals. These instances of contradiction will therefore be judged by the CNSYSTEM and will be made by the Minister at the end or by the Secretary-General - as is the case with other things - by which it will decide what interpretation is available if it can be solved in an interpretative manner. In some cases there is a problem with legislation. Okay, you can't with a Minister's decision change the legislation, but there are cases where it's really a matter of interpretation. I know too much. So we're making it binding from now on. Whatever happens to an HSB will apply to all. If we have a problem with legislation, we'll change it, but we won't be anyone to do their heads. That is the second measure. The third measure is the Central HYDRO. I've heard a lot about a great peasant, etc. Thank you for those good words, but that is not what this is all about. It will not be the Minister or the Secretary-General on whom the CYDOM will depend. The Secretary-General may also be given responsibility and it is possible. What's he gonna do? Will he do his head anything he likes? Oh, no. Like the municipalities' ERMs, they move within a framework of specific legislation and cannot decide what the mayor likes, who is, of course, in charge, the same with the central ERM. He'll be applying the laws again. If it does not apply the laws, there are obviously procedures and legal and administrative means through which an arbitrary decision by the Central HSB can be addressed, as can be done in an arbitrary decision by any HSB. It doesn't change anything in the process. The same guarantees exist, the same insurance portfolios. So it really is too much. I understand that maybe at first it wasn't understood what Central HYDRO means, but that's the Central HYDRO. What Central HYDRO does to a large extent can already be done by the DAGA, an address of the Ministry. Why are we doing Central HYDRO? Because the DACC has thirty other things to do. We therefore want to have a specialised agency that will deal only with this issue. Evidently, the C.O.D. won't deal with anything. It will operate in some cases, which are either very important as investments or very important in substance, namely that there are misinterpretations, that there are problems with migration. That's what the Central HYDRO will cover. It will be placed in the next period in the Ministry's organization by amending the relevant Presidential Decree and will also be judged by the Council of State if its powers and procedures are lawful and constitutional. So that's what this is about. So I think that it has been given - sometimes deliberately, sometimes trustworthy - a mistaken impression about the CSCE. It is part of a comprehensive intervention in the functioning of the Ministry of Architecture and the Councils of Architecture. There is one last intervention in this system. I referred to the Architecture Councils and the problems they are facing. It is well known that the problems are multiple in areas where the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Environment is co-ordinated. In this case, what happens to this day? The same subject, the same projects, namely building permits, are introduced to both councils and RIS and the Ministry of Culture. Each Council meets independently, takes different decisions, which may naturally be opposed, and then the person concerned becomes a ball between these two councils, in order to find a way to agree. That can last five years. The problem has emerged in Santorini recently - several people are aware of it - where five hundred building permits have actually been disputed between the local services of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Environment. So we agreed with Mrs Mendoni - she will now enter the bill submitted by the Ministry of Culture - that we will move on to the logic of one stop shop, that is, where there is a body that will be managed by both Ministries and head a legal counsellor, and that will decide for both. Obviously, the laws of the two ministries remain strong. Let us say, this body cannot overlook archaeological legislation. Apparently, there will be expenses. But they'll sit around a table and find them and tell the man concerned one thing. They won't tell him any different and contradictory. So we are immediately starting this, with three pilots such as one stop shop services of the two ministries. One will be in Cyclades, because the problem has really been exacerbated and practically, the other two will be in different parts of Greece, so that we can have different cases. These pilots will be operated for six months, and then this system will be generalized. That is the whole intervention in the building sector. I think that, in fact, it will address both the problems for investors and for citizens and for development. I want to say a second topic. The question of the Pissaridis Commission has been said many times and whether what we are doing is compatible and so on. So let's see what the Pissaridis committee says, after all. He says he needs a new development model. Obviously, you don't have to read the rest of the Pissaridis Commission - each understands it - but if you read it, it's even better. The new development model is not compatible with massive unregulated tourism, nor with hotels in the seven hundred square meters, nor with being a country that has far the lowest percentage of organised receptors and organised development throughout Europe. Because of this out-of-project, these are contradictory. We cannot therefore ask both the Pissaridis Commission and the new development model. Because it was said by many who were asking for both things at the same time, a new model of tourism, sustainable tourism and hotels in seven hundred square meters. Um, it's not all happening! So what do we do? With the interventions in the out-of-project construction we are limiting off-project, but above all - and this is another important part of the bill, which has almost gone into the dug - we are strengthening the type of investment that is consistent with the new development model not only in tourism but in all sectors. How do we strengthen it? Apart from making out-of-planning a little more difficult, which is clearly opposed to the new development model, we have greatly strengthened organised receptors and organised development. Organized receptors and organized developments are similar, not identical, but many confuse them. I have heard today - I do not remember by whom - that organised receptors mean militarisation. It doesn't mean warfare. There are organised receptors that are not built or built, such as CITES. You can build it, you can not build it. There are business parks that are organised receptors, which in some cases are built and in others are not built. It is not the organized receptor with urbanization. Don't tell me it's not like that again. I know these things, and I think any reasonable person who doesn't know about them can read them. It's not a terrible discovery I found, and I'm hiding it. These are well-known things. Organized development, in addition to organised receptors, what is it? Is it out of plan? Are we serious? Organised development means environmental licensing, draft general provision, rules and low rates. In other words, with regard to non-planned construction, organised development - I am not saying about the reception code - is actually much softer in what it does for the landscape. See how many organized developments have been. See the complex tourist accommodation licensed in SYRIZA. How is he? Do they have anything to do with the map of aalum outside of a tourist development plan? Look at those, which SYRIZA has licensed. Furthermore, because it sounds illegal the complex tourist accommodation has been repeatedly passed by the Council of State on appeals. At first there were the actions, which have been rejected all of them. It is clear that the complex tourist accommodation is a accommodation which is organised form of development and is completely constitutional. Now, if it's illegal, we don't decide, we don't decide, the other one doesn't decide. The courts decide that. He may think something is illegal, but it's only if the courts decide, not because I say it or anyone else. I would like to say one last thing, I will not say any more, because I do not want to abuse the time. Finally, what we are doing again about the new development model and the organisation, etc.Huh? This time, not for large investment, but for small and medium-sized enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises. What do you mean by a medium-sized business? Ten to fifty people. That's the middle. Small and medium sized is between fifty and two hundred fifty people. If words with these standards are to make sense, we must judge them. The small and medium-sized enterprises are not two people, they have neither economies of scale nor nothing. So these businesses are making it easier for them to develop spatially in an organised way, because they are new tools that we are bringing. One is the small mixed tourist accommodation in fifty acres. When a quarter is in the 50 acres, how many people will he have? Twenty? It's a small business, it's a small and medium-sized enterprise. We also for the first time provide for small business parks for both industry and logistics, and for any other use that is required, which have less than a minimum area, because there are areas that do not have sufficient demand to make a large business park of five hundred acres. What's that easy? It also makes it easier for the business park itself to be small and medium-sized and small businesses to enter such a business park. Therefore, it is not serious about these things which are also being heard in contrast to the Pissaridis Committee and that we are favouring only the large capital or the business groups, according to the good expression of the JRC. Everyone is favoured at all levels of scale, because everyone is needed on an economic basis which includes synergies. And the little one and the middle and the big one, everyone needs. You can't only help one. The bill strengthens all forms of development in an organised manner. What does not strengthen is the alalum. Thank you very much. I do not want to go into any other opposition today, despite the fact that some positions have been heard which had no basis, but in any case, I will stay on these two issues, because I think these are fundamental issues. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u185	Mr President, the debate is closed, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u186	Before the Minister closes, the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u187	Minister, because you weren't and I expected you to come, I would like to say this. In addition to the development of our positions, we have also made a concrete proposal for people suffering from changes in your arrangements for PV and small agricultural investment. You're afflicting people. We have said that you can at least go back a little bit further. We suggested that for the first case we should go for six months, go until June and for the second, for those who make small investments to produce a megawatt, go until the end of 2021. You're helping them like that. Your many changes have twisted them too, i.e. unjustified. Your settings will change.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u188	It's the treaty of COVID. There's a problem with the services. There are people who haven't been able to lock the price.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u189	Your settings will change, plus that we have the COVID -19. Give them a more deadline. Now you have time. Then, if we vote, we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u190	I shall give the floor in addition to Mrs Perka.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u191	I would like to say that we are in agreement with the proposal made by Mr Lovers, because it is also because of COVID, but the deadlines are generally suffocating. I said that it was well done for western Macedonia, for the lignite regions, but small producers exist throughout the country and it is unfair. It is good to give this extension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u192	Accept this, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u193	Minister, you have the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, I am pleased that we are leading to the end of this debate, which was a brutal process for us. The preparation with Mr Economou and Mr Bakoyannis had begun since the beginning of the year in fact. The bill first passed on to the Ministerial Council at the end of April, was presented for consultation in July and followed by an extensive consultation - both electronic and traditional - with citizens and operators. I think that a proper balance has been achieved and a cut is made, which promotes growth in green color and with a tool for spatial planning. I understand that there are, on the one hand, the ambitious ones - like myself, I do not hide it from you - that we go even further and, on the other hand, there are still lovers of immorality. That's a classic phenomenon. In Greece we are all in favour of reforms to the extent that we are not concerned with. In any case, we are public officials and are ultimately accountable to the Greek people, but also to our consciences. We have therefore decided to move forward in the way we described. I think that we find a fair balance between environment and development and the crucial one from now on when this draft law, with the vote of the House, has become law, is to implement its regulations for both land use and for the transfer of the building factor, and above all for the off-site construction and local town planning plans. This is the major reform. This is the main job Mr. Economou and Mr. Bakoyannis have to do. As I have explained to you, that is why we have financed it, we have arranged for funding from the Recovery Fund for local town plans to finally become a reality, because this story has been launched in Greece since 1976 and has since only 20% of the country's local town plans. It is a great burden that we are lifting on our shoulders, but we will try to achieve, as in many other areas of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, which I would like to believe is a daily productive ministry. I know you disagree in the opposition. If you agreed, you wouldn't be opposition. You overdo it sometimes, your problem. It's a profit to us that you're overreacting. In any case, we are determined to move forward on a European road, on a reform road, on a common sense path, and this draft law lays the foundations. Apart from town and country planning, there are also energy regulations for renewable energy sources, which are certainly and firmly facing the problem of ELEI - which emerged mainly because of the coronary - but also contribute to the transition of the RES to a free market model. Things with the networks are marginal. I have already explained the philosophy and architecture of the arrangements. They have been adequately studied, all the necessary discussions have been made, we have seen the balances and strengths of the system, we have heard comments from many and different sides. No other changes can be made at this time. If any clarification is needed, if there is anything that needs to be clarified, I say 'yes' again, but nothing can change about the philosophy of this intervention. Having said this, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your participation in this important parliamentary procedure. I would, however, like to thank, even - and above all - the entire group of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, which has contributed to making this bill a reality and more of my immediate partner, the Deputy Minister for Spatial Planning, Professor Dimitris Economou, the other professor, the Secretary-General for Spatial Planning, Ethnios Bakoyannis and the Secretary-General for Energy, who contributed significantly to the preparation of the arrangements for renewable energy sources, Alexandra Sdukou. It was a collective job, and I think a job will push things forward in these areas. Again, Mr President, thank you all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr Minister, and in particular for your ending, the general end, which must also be the level of our Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is hereby concluded: 'Modernisation of Spatial and Urban Legislation and other provisions'. We are entering the vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law, and they will be voted on separately. Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made for a roll-call vote in principle on Articles 14, 34, 35, 37, 40, 95, 128 and on Amendments 625/66 and 627/68 to the draft law by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u196	A request has also been made for a roll-call vote in principle on Articles 3, 11, 14, 33, 35, 124, 133 and on Amendment No 127/68 by the President of the Group of the Party of European Socialists and Members of the Party, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u197	Finally, a request has been made for a roll-call vote in principle on Articles 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40 and on Amendment 627/68 of the draft law by the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece and Members of the party whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u198	I will not read the list of signatories to the three applications. In view of the special circumstances, we consider that there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure and there is indeed one. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that the three votes should be taken together in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u200	The House agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a roll-call vote on this point in principle and on Articles 3, 11, 14, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 95, 124, 128, 133 and Amendments 625/66 and 627/68 to the draft law. We would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of ten articles and of two amendments. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted in all twenty areas included in the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u201	I would like to inform you that letters and fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau, pursuant to Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, to which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the count which will be followed. [[The letters referred to above are entered in the minutes and are found in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] Once you have finished, please close the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. In principle, 295 Members voted on the articles and amendments. The principle of the draft law: In addition, 157 Members voted in favour. In other words, 138 Members voted against. 'PARTON', voted no one. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. Article 3: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 157 Members voted. Against the article, i.e. 'NO', 138 Members voted. 'PARTON', voted no one. Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 11: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 157 Members voted. Under Rule 129 Members voted against. 'PARON', 9 MPs voted. Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 14: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 157 Members voted. Against the article, i.e. 'NO', 138 Members voted. 'PARTON', voted no one. Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 31: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 157 Members voted. VAN DER WAAL (NI). — (NL) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. 'PARON', voted 93 MPs. Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 32: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 157 Members voted. Against the article, i.e. 'NO', 138 Members voted. 'PARTON', voted no one. Article 32 was therefore accepted as amended by a majority. Article 33: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 157 Members voted. Against the article, i.e. 'NO', 138 Members voted. 'PARTON', voted no one. Article 33 was therefore accepted as amended by a majority. Article 34: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 157 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 117 Members. 'PARON', 21 MPs voted. Article 34 was therefore accepted as amended by a majority. Article 35: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 166 Members. Under Rule 129 Members voted against. 'PARTON', voted no one. Article 35 was therefore accepted as amended by a majority. Article 36: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 166 Members. Under Rule, 'Notice', 108 Members voted. 'PARON', 21 MPs voted. Article 36 was therefore accepted as amended by a majority. Article 37: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 166 Members. Under Rule, 'Notice', 108 Members voted. 'PARON', 21 MPs voted. Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 38: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 166 Members. Under Rule 129 Members voted against. 'PARTON', voted no one. Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 39: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 157 Members voted. Against the article, i.e. 'NO', 33 Members voted. 'PARON', 105 Members voted. Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 40: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 157 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 117 Members. 'PARON', 21 MPs voted. Article 40 was therefore accepted as amended by a majority. Article 95: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 166 Members. Under Rule, 'Notice', 108 Members voted. 'PARON' they voted 21 MPs. Article 95 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 124: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 157 Members voted. Against the article, i.e. 'NO', 138 Members voted. 'PARTON', voted no one. Article 124 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 128: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 157 Members voted. Against the article, i.e. 'NO', 138 Members voted. 'PARTON', voted no one. Article 128 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 133: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 157 Members voted. Against the article, i.e. 'NO', 138 Members voted. 'PARTON', voted no one. Article 133 was therefore accepted as a majority. The amendment under a general number 625 and a special number 66: In favour of the amendment, i.e. 'NAH', 157 Members voted. On the amendment, i.e. 'NO', 138 Members voted. 'PARTON', voted no one. The amendment under a general number 625 and a special 66, therefore, was accepted as amended by a majority. The amendment under a general number 627 and a special number 68: In favour of the amendment, i.e. 'NAH', 157 Members voted. On the amendment, i.e. 'NO', 138 Members voted. 'PARTON', voted no one. So the amendment under a general number 627 and a special 68 was accepted as it is by a majority. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, on the vote of the rapporteurs and gentlemen, following the completion of the roll-call vote, we are voting for the remaining one hundred and eighteen articles of both (2) amendments to the bill. The rapporteurs and the special speakers are requested to submit to the Bureau documents with their votes on the other articles and amendments, the nominated article and the entire bill in order to be included in the Parliament's official minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u204	Consequently, following the conclusion of the vote, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Modernisation of Spatial and Urban Legislation and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, on the articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u205	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau to ratify the minutes of this sitting in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u206	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-04-S1-commons.u207	With the agreement of the House at 19.23 hours the sitting for Monday, 7 December 2020 at 15.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate
