ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 25 September 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 1069/21-9-2020, Mr. Ioannis Ragosi's current question was asked by MP II Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Ragosi to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "In the three critical trials this year, civil protection proved to be powerless and accountable. Unique government plan, falsification of reality and the concealment of truth." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 1049/20-9-2020 of the Deputy State of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: “State mechanism in recent disasters by cyclone Janus.” 3. Under number 1053/21-9-2020, a topical question by Piraeus II, Mr. Fotinis Bakadammas, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The complaints about medieval working conditions at the “Yava Fitness Centers”. B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 1052/21-9-2020 by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "An unanswered questions about outstanding ECA pensions". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. - The Question by Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "The need to improve the legislative framework of the labour market (formerly IKA - EBRD) in order to protect the insurance and labour rights of those paid with it". 3. The question by number 1068/21-9-2020 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The need to improve the legislative framework of the land construction (formerly the OGA) in order to protect and strengthen their insurance and labour rights". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Art. 130 p. 5 KC. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 1. The No. 2226/10-7-2020 report by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingero Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The letter by the National Blind Federation and the Association - a member of the Pan-Hellenic Blind Association, expressing their strong protest about the cutback by the OPEKA of benefits received by the blind scientists". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question, under number 8772/410-6-8-2020, was asked and applied for the submission of documents by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Possible pollution of the marine environment in the port of Syros". Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the supplementary agenda, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Minister of Finance, Development and Investment, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Justice, Interior, Infrastructure and Transport, the Deputy Minister of Finance, the Deputy Minister to the Prime Minister and the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection submitted on 23 September 2020 a draft law on “Urgent arrangements to address the catastrophic consequences of the Mediterranean Cyclone ‘Jan” course, further measures to address the consequences of the COVID Pandemic -19 and other urgent provisions.” It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle of Articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: 1) ‘Following the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on Commercial Shipping of 6 December 2001’ and 2) ‘Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Israel on Maritime Transport’. These drafts were adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of these agreements. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u2	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u3	Don't you agree? Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure will be applied and, in order to be clear, because last time, by way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure, a tolerance has been made and the matter has been raised, it has been decided at the Conference of Presidents that Rule 108 should be strictly respected. Only those who object will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u5	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Two colleagues from SYRIZA have tabled an amendment to the bill. We understand that the debate must take place, in accordance with Rule 108, but because this is a serious matter, the deadline is 30 September and until then there is no other debate in the House, so that an amendment can be tabled, we ask that one of our colleagues, Mrs Perka, take the floor for five minutes in order to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u7	What Minister is this about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u8	It's for the RIS, for the extension of arbitrary action.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u9	Will it be accepted by the Minister? Are you sure she's going to be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, there is a serious issue because the deadline and a number of citizens who want to settle their arbitrary situations in these difficult circumstances are asking for the deadline to be extended. The same is demanded by the Technical Chamber of Greece. I think it is an issue on which it is a good thing that my colleague, from there on, is a question of whether she will accept the amendment or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u11	There must be consultation with the Minister in the parliamentary amendments. This is the practice that is being followed. Although it is not clear in the Rules of Procedure, this is the practice of years. That is to say, the procedure with the parliamentary amendments has prevailed. Please consult the Minister responsible and if the Minister wishes to argue himself and you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u12	But, Mr President, will we agree with the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u13	I'm telling you, this isn't happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, may I take the floor on this matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u15	Minister, if this is your concern, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, we cannot accept the late amendment in principle. I remember, Mr Colleague, very well that you yourself, when I had also brought an agreement on shipping before me, you committed yourself to not going to vote if we bring in late amendments. Now you are bringing in late amendments. In any case, however, it is not acceptable, so there is no need to discuss it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, can I just take the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Santorinier, you said so. What to do, to violate the Rules of Procedure now? Here, take the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, are we not discussing whether the government will accept the amendment, but is it possible to table an amendment and not to give the right to those who have tabled it to develop the argument? From there on, what the government will do is its own issue, and the government will be judged by the citizens and engineers, who urgently demand that there be an extension to the normalisation of the arbitrary, because at the moment there is a huge problem in society. Now, if the government doesn't accept it, all right. But let us develop the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u20	When the amendments by the Minister are not accepted, there is no development in substance. It's over. The Communist Party of Greece objected to the "Definition of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on Commercial Shipping on 6 December 2001". On the "Definition of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Israel on Maritime Transport", the Communist Party of Greece objects and has expressed reservations about the party of Mera25. So Mrs Manolakos has the floor and then Mr. Logiadis from Mera25. Mrs Manolakou, will you speak singlely for both of you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u21	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u22	I'll give you five minutes, but because they're two there'll be tolerance to exhaust both of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u23	For ten minutes, Mr. President. The question is: 'Do sea transport take place with Israel?'. Of course, there are few companies working. What's new about this deal? Obviously, there seems to be a more frequent and stable maritime landing line, a passenger landing line, and also probatively, as the Minister in committee said, in the context of maritime cooperation, there can also be an energy transport agreement. The truth is that there is a body of agreements, since the current government of New Democracy as well as the previous SYRIZA, but also other urban parties, have declared the State - a murderer of Israel to be a strategic ally of the country, by upgrading the political, economic, military relations of Greece - Israel. I would like to make it clear that it is a state which has been in the hands of Palestinian territories for fifty three years, imprisoned and murdered even children, is about to attach Palestinian land and has its weapons in the Middle East. That is why we demand that the unanimous decision taken in Parliament on 22 December 2015 should be implemented for the recognition of the Palestinian state. However, no government wants to implement it, so as not to harm the Israeli funds with which it sets bridges for business. It is no coincidence that last May, in a public debate on the subject, the Israeli Ambassador acknowledged to the SYRIZA government that he made the greatest progress in bilateral relations and stressed that the next step, he said, needs to be continued and prepared as well, reflects geostrategic realities in the region. Therefore, the acceleration of the dangerous to the peoples of the American-Russian designs in the wider region and the benefits that will arise will be to domestic groups, which expect to be part of the prey and, above all, energy sources and transport. This is also implemented by the Government of New Democracy, with its full support, of course, of SYRIZA and PASOK - KINAL, promoting a ratification of the Agreement between the Governments of Greece and Israel. At the same time, of course, we will also be putting in place for the ratification of the Greek-Russian maritime agreement, as regards the provisions on the identification of seafarers, because these agreements have the public that nothing is written, it is not about the rights of seafarers and seafarers as a whole. All of this comes to be added to the body of agreements signed by the Greek governments with the governments of other countries, in line with the intensity of the exploitation of seafarers to enhance the competitiveness of maritime capital. That is why you are giving all new privileges and tax exemptions for the exploitation of port infrastructures in the country to promote the urban order, to promote the country in a transit hub of goods, to increase the participation of Greek shipping in world trade traffic, agreements that bring the intensification of intra-imperialist antagonisms of the USA - the European Union - NATO on the one hand and the other Russia - on the other. Of course, for these reasons, we will vote against, but at the same time we also consider government declarations that such agreements fully reflect the country's well-established maritime priorities, which, among other things, focus on protecting the Greek ship and facilitate the mobility of our seafarers between the Contracting countries. We consider this to be a challenge for seafarers, because thousands of people are trapped seafarers on board ships, who work in conditions of farce and dispersal of the pandemic with tragic consequences, fatal accidents, injuries and occupational diseases, in order to ensure inextricably profits for shipowners, even in conditions of capitalist crisis in seafarers. In this sense, no measure is taken in these two agreements, even for the relief of seafarers. On the contrary, the Government, at the request of the shipowners, with an unacceptable amendment which has suddenly submitted fees to Julius, abolished the collective contract of employment of seafarers in crew specialisations, as well as the unsubscribing and non-subscribing engineers, by applying the lousy wage bills of ITF. Evolution that marks a sweeping change in the weight of seafarers in all categories of ships, since the employer has in the patron of numerous anti-territorial laws by the Governments of New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK, for associations of persons on the coast. In the same anti-Semitism law, in 4714/2020, you are entitled to the shipowners' rights with Greek flags, even for the position of the first master to be chartered seafarer by an individual contract and not by the corresponding Greek sectoral labour and public social security contract. The ratification notes that internationally held authorities and conventions, terms and conditions of work based on international prisoners will apply, i.e. hunger wages signed by the employers' international federation with the shipowners' employer's miners in IMO. It is typical of what is referred to in Article 3 of the Greek Government and Israel Agreement, baptizing fish meat to promote the interests of professional groups. It says that it does not apply to coastline, as defined in the relevant national legislation, where a ship of any Contracting Party sails from one port to another, within the territory of the other Contracting Party, for the purpose of unloading cargo or passenger boarding. Eventually, isn't that a ferry? It is. Furthermore, the protocol submitted for ratification with the Russian Federation expressly states that it constitutes an improvement in the procedures for the identification of seafarers' documents, on the basis of existing and beneficial for Greek maritime interests, an institutional framework for cooperation. All to maximise the profit of the arm's length capital. We are therefore voting against. At the same time, however, we welcome today's warning strike on ships, on the port of Piraeus, and consider the requests of seafarers fighting for the renewal of a collective agreement with increases, compulsory public insurance for all seafarers - from which country they come - with the defence of trade liberties and rights, with the abolition of all anti-pollution provisions of legislation which have been added from previous contracts, wages, rights, in pandemic conditions, full stable work with a reduction in working time and an adaptation of organic positions to the increased needs of ships and substantial protection of the unemployed. Of course, the strikers have a voice and under the mask. Do not hurry to slander strikers, as you do with students, because they fight and claim to protect their health in schools with cultural rights. The students today are on the streets and their motto is right at the gathering they now have in Propylaea. The mask is not the only protection, give money for education, but also for workers. We are voting against both sanctions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Mr. Logiadis has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, Ministers, I would like, as a Member of Parliament, from Crete, to remind you that until today 24 September 1908, the Cretans declared union with Greece. Now let's go to the draft law with Israel. That Agreement has been signed in 2017 and is part of the overall strategy for the promotion of bilateral shipping agreements. A further agreement with Morocco was also ratified in June. I would remind you that it was voted in favour of Mera25 and all the parties, except the Communist Party of Greece and the Greek Solution. The agreement has 20 articles and addresses a number of issues of access, tax, technical assistance, etc. The state of Israel, also surrounded by opposing forces, has as a way out to the West, Greece and Cyprus. The way in which the State of Israel could operate could be an example of a country which is self-sufficient in the primary, secondary and tertiary sectors. We, as a PARTA25, support clear and with mutual interest agreements and cooperation. This draft law, however, seems to us to be foggy and not entirely clear. For this reason, as well as because of the hug of Greece Israel in recent years at various levels, in particular, mining and defence, this contract is judged with caution by us for what purposes, in the end, it wants to serve, and that is why we are voting 'at present'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr. Ioannis Plakkatakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, let me say, on the occasion of today's - global day of shipping - that it is devoted to this day by the international maritime organisation - a celebration which has been established since 1978, with the aim of recalling the importance of the Agency's work - to upgrading shipping, safety, navigation, maritime safety and the protection of the marine environment. The central theme of the global maritime day is sustainable shipping, for a sustainable planet. The choice of the issue, you all realise, shows the practical commitment, IMO, to the sustainable development objectives of the United Nations, as reflected on Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development. Therefore, IMO's initiatives, which Greece fully supports, have become one of the first global industries to adopt and strictly implement environmental measures. It is, of course, a milestone of this effort that IMO's initial strategy is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from ships and to apply 0.50% as the maximum sulphur content in ships' fuels. It is imperative that we all work together, having as a key strategic objective the further emergence of the IMO's pre-cedence in shaping the institutional framework, which will guarantee the smooth functioning of international shipping and global trade, in a sustainable and efficient way and a high sense of responsibility for the protection of the environment. This is a duty for all of us, but above all it is our duty to future generations. Now, with regard to the two agreements brought about by the previous government. The first with the Russian Federation is, in fact, a technical adaptation, due to developments in international law and, of course, concerns the identity forms of seafarers. The second relates to full maritime cooperation with Israel and, of course, to the first agreement, the country's maritime interests are fully guaranteed. Legal security is guaranteed, stability, the conditions of the Greek-ownered and Greek ship, and the rights of our seafarers of course are guaranteed. One understands that the technical update of the technical agreement with the Russian Federation offers access to a very large shipping market, given that Russia is one of the first countries in world oil and LNG production. So we all realise that, because Greece has such specialized ships, it can be used for the benefit of Russia's foreign trade. What I would also like to point out is that the international agreement with Israel - in fact, this year, is 30 years since the establishment of diplomatic relations with Israel - is certainly deepening the strategic cooperation between the two countries. It also contributes to prosperity and regional stability, which was confirmed by the recent meeting of the two Prime Ministers, Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Netanyahu in June. You realise that because needs are expected to arise for the transfer of energy resources from and from Israel, I believe that the agreement to be ratified provides a complete institutional framework and an important tool for deepening cooperation between the two countries and the energy sector. So what we all want to keep is that shipping, which is the big strategic weapon of this country, can act as a mechanism for enlargement and other economic activities with other states. Finally, what I would also like to stress is that our ports, on the occasion of of course also maritime cooperation with Israel, can act as hubs of transit trade and our Government has already taken important initiatives to exploit the large regional ports in the country. Furthermore - I conclude with this - I would like, Madam President, once again to stress that the legislative initiatives that we took at the end of July concern the strengthening of the competitiveness of the Greek register, the creation of incentives to increase employment on Greek ships. They're only about seagoing pods. I want to make that clear. They're not about the coastline. I also stressed to you in the committee responsible that the presence, employment of Greek seafarers over the last thirty years has been dramatically reduced. I told you that in the 1970s Greek seafarers were about eighty thousand. Today is eighteen thousand. So, my colleague, something went wrong. That's what we're trying to change. That is why we are taking these initiatives. We want to motivate the young unemployed in this country to find employment in the shipping pod, to create incentives to employ the young children of that country. Don't tell me about the gallery wages, because we're talking about the salaries of a thousand eight hundred dollars and two thousand dollars. Tell me you other people on land who have these wages. I challenge you for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u28	One hundred and ten hours overtime a month...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u29	Before you talk about gallery wages, before you talk about seafarers' rights, help you too so that we can solve a very big problem, that of the employment of the young unemployed Greeks. We want to motivate them, strengthen the Greek flag, strengthen the competitiveness of the Greek register, and I think we should all be together in this effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Minister. A single debate on the principle, articles, amendment and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy is hereby concluded: ‘Definition of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Commercial Shipping of 6 December 2001’. The debate is also adjourned on the principle of uniformity, the articles and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Israel on Maritime Transport". Their vote will be taken separately. We enter the resolution on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘Definition of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Commercial Shipping of 6 December 2001’. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u31	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u32	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u33	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘Definition of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on Commercial Shipping of 6 December 2001’, was accepted by a majority of uniform in principle, Articles and all of which are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u34	We enter the vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Israel on Maritime Transport". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u35	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u36	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u37	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy: ‘Definition of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Israel on Maritime Transport’ was accepted by a majority of uniform in principle, Articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u38	We are now entering the third penalty. General discussion and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food: "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and Water Management of the Republic of Albania for cooperation in the field of agriculture". The Communist Party of Greece and the Greek Solution have voted against. Mrs Manolakou, Mr Logiadis and the President of the Greek Solution will therefore be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u40	Will you talk? However, because the President will also speak the time will be shortened. Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u41	Can two States conclude agreements on agricultural production and processing? Of course they can. But on conditions and conditions governing their agricultural policy. What is the legislation in our country? Nearly all of it are the regulations and directives of the European Community's agricultural production. For example, when we want to import certified seed from a third country, we are setting mandatory production and certification conditions, in accordance with the respective technical regulation of the European Union. Or when we import plant or animal products from third countries, they must be accompanied by certificates of plant health for diseases according to European Union dictates, which have, of course, been passed under national law. That is why we often say that there is no national agricultural policy, but a common agricultural policy, from what you will produce to what you will process or pack or import. Why? Because there is a single market and products, capital and goods are circulating without cross-border checks. On the contrary, it is not possible for refugees to move around, which the Dublin Treaty and the European Union-Turkey agreement are imprisoning them on the Greek islands, violating their rights. We therefore come to the memorandum of cooperation with Albania in the agricultural sector, which SYRIZA did in 2015. So objectively this cooperation serves the objective of Albania's accession process to the European Union, since the memorandum includes all agricultural production and processing and refers to specific aspects of the common agricultural policy, without it, of course, being named, since it has been incorporated into national law. That's simple logic, it's not a suspicion. In fact, this is a preparation for Albania's accession to the European Union, which agriculture employs a significant proportion and has a double-digit share in its gross domestic product. Of course, this path of integration has passed through many waves, as in the European Parliament recently calling on the governments of the Member States not to start accession procedures if certain conditions such as respect for national minorities, protection of property rights, electoral law and population census relating to the Greek minority in Albania and other conditions have not been fulfilled. These delays also promoted a plan for the creation of a mini-Segen to harmonise policies and open up new markets for local and foreign monopolies with the stimulus and blessings of the imperialist countries and the United States. Greek governments are setting up to ensure a good position among foreign investors in most Balkan countries, since they want and have supported their integration into the European Union and NATO. Therefore, this agreement also contributes to the know-how for capitalist restructuring to run in the neighbouring country, in the agricultural sector and at the same time ensures the interests of the Greek bourgeoisie. This is the contribution of SYRIZA to Euro-Atlantic planning in the Albanian region, a framework of support for the European Commission, which is supported by both the current government and the other parties. These memos are not going to favour farmers, but the capital they want to infiltrate in Albania. Farmers will lose themselves as they are the ones who pay the marble of the liberalised market and the intensity of competition as a result of the transnational agreements of capitalist states. We are voting against and say that the suffering and suffering of the peoples of the Balkans have certain causes. These are imperialist competitions, naval interventions, border changes, foreign military bases, the incitement of nationalism, their interconnection with the European Union, capitalist restructurings. Experience shows that no country, European Union and NATO can be done to the benefit of the people. On the contrary, they are dictated by the interests of large monopolistic groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Mr. Villards has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin by voting against the draft laws or agreements which are in favour of Greece, while voting against all the others. For example, we voted for the agreement with Russia, because we believe it is positive for Greece, hoping that the status of sanctions will be lifted, so that there will be a normalisation of our relations and better trade relations, and it will also be to our benefit geopolitically. We also voted 'in favour' in the agreement with Israel, wishing it had been understood that Greek shipping is a great advantage to our country and geopolitically, which, unfortunately, does not take the full advantage of it. After analysing the economic aspects of both countries in the committee, we said that our position on cooperation with Israel is stable and stable. We have, of course, indicated in the agreement some problematic provisions that need to be corrected, but cooperation with Israel in all areas is considered to be in the interest of our country. As far as the agreement with Albania is concerned, after we have also analysed its financial data, we have said that it is better for the Ministry of Rural Development to deal with the very serious problems we have in the primary sector than with such pointless issues. After stressing that the European Union in Albania's programme of accession mentions the problems of declining its agricultural sector, we have established that the agreement serves almost entirely Albania and not at all Greece, since the country wants to benefit from our own know-how, on the other hand, from having access to the programmes and funding of the European Union through Greece. In addition, we said that organised crime in Albania plays a major role in drug trafficking with significant domestic production of cannabis, while working together in these areas with Turkey by exchanging cannabis with heroin, as well as in other illegal activities, from arms trade to the transport and trafficking of drugs in Europe. And that is what Albania is widely called the 'Colombia' or 'Narco-state', while it is estimated that hemp alone creates around 4 billion GDP or about 25% of the country's total GDP. So, is it possible to work with such a regime? We continued with the fact that Greece is the second largest investor in Albania, although for many years it was the first, while it is estimated that more than a hundred Greek and homosexual companies are currently active in the Albanian market. It is well known that the development of the agricultural sector is a high priority of the Albanian Government, and according to our embassy's report in Albania - which we have of course read - its agricultural sector suffers from major structural weaknesses which we analysed one by one in committee. Finally, we noted that Albania has already entered into relations of cooperation in the agricultural sector with Turkey since 2014, while a common organisation of the two countries has been established, recalling that Turkey has established a maritime basis in Albania in its efforts to infiltrate all the Balkan states. The main reason, however, that we voted against the agreement, without of course underestimating the rest, is firstly the delimitation of the maritime zones, secondly - and most importantly - the violation of the rights of the Greek minority by the Albanian authorities and thirdly the attempted link between Albania and the Turkish defence policy that seeks the strategic encirculation of Greece, and, indeed, any attempt to develop the Greek Albanian relations, not only in the agriculture sector, but, of course, in all other areas. Although this is a meaningless agreement, indifferently, we have been against, as we will do to anyone else, if the main problems we have mentioned are not solved before, in particular as regards the confiscation of the Greeks and their terrorism by the government of Albania. Obviously we have absolutely nothing against its citizens, whom we have been hosting for years in Greece, providing jobs, social care and everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, too, Mr. Villardo. The President of the Greek solution, Mr Velopoulos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to begin by asking the government not to bring fast track bills. I learned a moment ago that the government's attempt to heal the wounds in Karditsa has come, but the way they are made and emblems go through things that have nothing to do with "Jan" must make them more careful. We'll see all this on Monday, because they're going through advertising in and out and advertising spending and a lot of weird stuff. Then they force us to vote against, vote'residents' and unite Mr. Villards, because'residents' is not a vote. But when you put the good thing between the good one and the bad one, you have a problem voting 'yes' or 'no', and we now have to be careful. Now we're going to the point. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, Albania. You're bringing us a bill on agricultural cooperation, etc. You know, international relations are governed not by the good mood of one side, but by the reciprocity both sides must have. I ask this Minister - because he is also a friend from the old - whether this country is friendly with Greece. It's not. I'm not going to talk about the ruthless persecution of the North-West. I'm not going to talk about the confiscations of the North-South expeditions. I will not say about the illegal settlements that are taking place in the southern part of Albania, our northern continent. I will not say about illegal ownership in Saints and other locations. I won't talk about the murders of Aristotle Guma and Katsifa. I will not say the violation of Corfu and Florence's protocol. I will also not say about the signing of military relations between Turkey and Albania. I ask the Minister, the Government of New Democracy: What do we need to hurry to work with such a state? Albania is indeed worthy - I disagree with Mr Villardos - agricultural production, but it only has crops, hashs. They're experts in this art. They have a very good primary sector in hashish. What, then, is the reason when Albania provides bases to the Turks? What is the point of mocking them all the time when they went and created a structure in the Northern Continent Pakistani right at the border with Greece? How can I say to them 'Come and work together, discuss' or 'we do something good'? Can I just say about the Chemistry thing? Can I say about the claims officially made by Albanian MPs and ministers? Should I say the worst thing he'd done in New Democracy, Mr. Minister, the Albanian government? The New Democracy has succeeded a few years ago in establishing an EEZ with the Albanians and the one that governs today, namely the drug trader Rama, appealed to the constitutional court - which our country does not have and we call a constitutional court - and abolished an agreement between the two parties on the definition of EEZ between Greece and Albania. In other words, we should go and give - I agree - help, but see what we are gaining. Because as your friend Erdogan says - and I say your friend, not yours, but the Prime Minister, because he talks with him - 'cazan-cazan' is the business, 'win-win' that the British say. Here only "cazan" takes one and leaves. There is no 'cazan-cazan' for both of us. Can I say about the changes in the election results in the North Continent? Can I say about the banning of bilingual inscriptions on the northern continent that Albanians are obliged to post and download? May I say that the deprivation of the rights of free expression of the North-West? I mean, there are so many things I could talk about. Here, the Prime Minister of the country, a few months ago, committed himself to our Northcontinental brothers and the Greeks to retire them. He still didn't. You'll tell me there's financial hardship. I understand that. There is no financial difficulty, however, only where we must give, but where we must not give. I am referring to specific things. I have also pointed out the following. And here, I have to be fair. The director of your office called me for the 'Darwin flower', this excellent herb that is planted in Grammos, which costs 50,000 euros the kilo that Albanians enter and collect. The head of the office has asked you for information. And he's the only one, the manager of your office, who sent questions and I answered them. And as far as I'm concerned, it's getting serious about this and your ministry. That makes me happy. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, I would like some more time, because I would like to refer to Greeks. Kennedy said something great. I say to my fellow Members: 'You cannot negotiate with states or people who say this: what is mine is mine. What is yours is negotiable." That is what Turkey is doing today. Everything that's hers thinks it's hers. And everything that's ours thinks it's negotiable. We have been tolerated by Turkish violations for decades. We are facing challenges from Turkey. We are invading Cyprus. And today, we're sitting here talking to these people. And we only let our sister Cyprus remove the chestnuts from the fire. Why are we doing this? Where's the single defense doctrine? Where is the agreement between the two countries? For me, they're not two countries. For me Hellenism does not exist in two countries. For me, Cyprus is Greece. Where there is Hellenism is Greece. You put Paul Apostolidis on me - so I hear - this Mr - who was also a adviser to ELIAMEP, responsible and appointed to the EEA on Simitis - where you find them - the first to start cooperation between the EU and MIT on terrorism issues in charge of the mission in dialogue with Turkey. It's like you say "I'm putting the loser to win". You can't win the looser. The man can't win, because he has certain opinions. And I say it to you. He is the man who unlocked the entire PKK in Greece and handed them over to Turkey. The role of Apostolides in Ocalan's history is not random. How do you put these people in charge of talking, gentlemen of the New Democracy? Mr Christodoulides, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cyprus, gets us out in an elegant way - I would say it differently - and he says: 'We should simply expect to accept these illegal actions because the dialogue between Greece and Turkey has been reached'. The Cypriot Foreign Minister says about your New Democracy and Government that it cannot tolerate the challenges of the Turks and the drilling because you have found them with Turkey. You know what that means? You have once again broken the single defence doctrine, the unified association of Cyprus - Greece. I will also thank Cyprus once again. I thank the small Cyprus, our sister Cyprus, who has kept the national dignity, the national pride of the Greeks with the veto he has set. What they said was a virus and the Synod was canceled is fairy tales. I'd said it all along. The 'DIE WELT' said it today and yesterday that it was a fairy tale. Because of Cyprus the story has been canceled. So let's go negotiate with Turkey without knowing what we're giving. I denounce the Greek Prime Minister in here. There's nothing else I can do. You can't talk without Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Koutsubas or the rest of the heads. You can't discuss national matters alone for decades. You mustn't negotiate with secret diplomacy. It is the wrong crime that New Democracy will not pay for, but all Greek citizens will pay for it. Of course, I am asking you to discuss this with Germany. Why don't you talk about military compensation and corrections? No one talks in here, except for the JRC at any time mentioned. Why are we not talking about military compensation and corrections? The ambassador of the Germans came here. Everyone applauded him in New Democracy. They stood up and applauded. Why, ladies and gentlemen? Did anyone tell him they owe us $300 billion? Mr Colleague, if I'm not mistaken, you were President of the Commission. Did anyone raise the issue of the ambassador? It's an ambassador from Germany, and he came here to the House. Let us put it at even the right end, not in a bad way. Let us put it in an elegant diplomatic way, that we also have a EUR 300 billion outstanding. Why don't we talk about it? Why do we constantly avoid asking for what we are entitled to? I'm not saying you're asking for something you're not entitled to, but something you're entitled to. They were slaughtered at Hortiatis, Distomos, Kalavrita by the Nazis, fascists, these beasts, our Greek ancestors. I have a relative who, in the Yanks Square, was killed a hundred and twelve and who was eight years old. The Germans killed it. Have we forgotten everything? And we are executing the orders of Germany's interests. I am not saying that the government is carrying out the orders of the Germans. We are, however, carrying out the orders of Germany's interests in conflict with the Greeks. So there's something we don't do right. I was sincerely disappointed when I saw New Democracy MPs applauding the ambassador. He really upset me. So you applaud someone who says good things to you - I understand - or helps your foreign policy or national issues. Where did Germany help us applaud him? Now tell me where he helped us. Did he send an army to the border? Does it help us? Where does it help us? Does it help us with the loans he owes us, the EUR 300 billion compulsory loan? Tell me where Germany helped. I'll tell you what the Occupant said. And I say this to the Prime Minister, who is absent: 'You do not go up to the wrestler when you know you will be defeated.' And the Prime Minister and Greece are now in the dialogue ballot, and he knows that we will be defeated. And we're defeated, because we're talking about things that are ours as if they were ours. So we're defeated. We have come into the process to discuss things like natural gas, rock islands, islands, demilitarisation, which I will say below. We are talking about this when, on the other hand, we do not put specific things in place. We have teachers who know well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Velopoulou, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, I would like two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Velopoulou, you've been talking ten minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. The Treaty of Lausanne speaks of self-employed Imprus and Tenedos. Why not put it on the Greek side? The Treaty of Lausanne says so. Because in the same way, after they have been demanding rock islands and islands, with their own weaponry to claim the others, as the Princess has done. We have a right under international law. We should put them on the table, so that when we discuss them, the bargaining can go on a equal footing. Here, let's go one-way. We're with the losers. I come to the issue of demilitarisation. What does the word 'democratisation' mean? I'll tell you right away: it means disarmament. Demilitarization means disarming the Greek islands and getting degrees of artillery, motorized brigades. I'm building brigades in Serres and Castoria. We take the American weapons systems from the islands and bring them to mainland Greece. You tell me why. Why are we talking about this? In the new structure of the Greek army these are written. If you drop an army from the islands it's like you do what the old junta did, the junta in '67 that carried the division, and in '74 we invaded Cyprus. Don't make the same mistake. I'm sure you won't fall into the same mistake. To close, to say: When the sheep is having a dialogue with the wolf, it is not about whether the sheep will be eaten. That's for granted. It'll be eaten. It's about where the wolf starts eating. Here, the point is that Greece is starting in the wrong way to dialogue with the fascist Erdogan. We have Turkey against Syria, Turkey against Libya, Turkey against Iraq, Turkey against Israel, Turkey against Egypt, Turkey against the United Arab Emirates, Turkey against Cyprus, Turkey against Greece, Turkey against Armenia, Turkey against France, Turkey against India lately. Yesterday, India, the official government issued a statement against Turkey. We have Turkey against Kuwait, Turkey against the European Union, Turkey against the UN. Turkey is the troublemaker. And with him, you're going to have a dialogue? Today, are you going to have a conversation with Erdogan? Are you going to legitimize his claims through the dialogue? It's wrong. And I close, saying: Greek Society of Intensive Treatment. Do you know how many IDs we have today? The company says so. We have three hundred and thirty-seven ICU beds in state and military hospitals. Here, he was the Prime Minister and Minister Kikilias who said we would have a thousand ICUs by August. Where are the thousand ICUs? A hundred and a half - he says - they've already been made available. Tell me where the thousand IDs are. Because I'm going to go crazy. You were telling us, telling us, telling us and listening to what you were doing. And I'm closing up with it. Bakoyannis gave two million to make this disgrace on the pedestrian street, the disgrace of the great walk that took place. You gave six million for masks - parachutes. You've given five hundred thousand for a floating dam. And you've given $20 million for free money to the channels. A ID is doing thirty thousand with forty-five thousand euros. We'd have another six hundred and fifty with seven hundred ICUs with the money you've given. Thirty-five or forty-five thousand makes an ID. Put down the numbers. It's not populism, you know. It's the raw reality. Stop dubbing populism and stories of arguments exist. Because it's not nonexistent. The two million were given and Mr Bakoyannis dismantled. You disgusting! Twenty million ate them in the channels to say 'Have New Democracy'. "Good-for-nothing" became all channels. I won't say about the six million parachute masks. I'm telling you specific things. You couldn't do this? Where are the thousand ICUs?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u50	Finish it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u51	You're panic for this reason, because you don't have ICUs, because you can't host - I repeat, host, because they're in ICUs, life and death - people at risk. When you play with people's lives and give millions of euros to demolition channels to host you, you are not politicians, you are politicians and, unfortunately, you are cultured.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u52	The Minister for Rural Development and Food has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. For a moment, I would like to remind you of the issue we are discussing, because it has not been a matter of concern. We are discussing ratification of an international convention concluded with Albania. In fact, it is said: "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy of the Hellenic Republic..." - was the choice made then by SYRIZA and had consolidated the Ministries, it was the Ministry of Rural Development which was interested here - "...and the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and Water Management of the Republic of Albania for cooperation in the field of agriculture...". Many creatively not heard today. I should like to say what the issues were, which he wants to regulate in this memorandum. Plant production and inputs of plant production, animal production, livestock farming and inputs of animal production, fisheries, veterinary matters, plant health issues, plant production protection, post-extraction and food processing, including marketing, labelling of quality standards and control, food safety, organic agriculture, protection of geographical indications in food, soil management and mapping, vetches, agri-environmental issues, agricultural applications and education and agricultural research. To do this, there is a provision that a joint committee will be set up, which will meet at regular intervals in order to promote cooperation between the two countries in these matters. That is the subject of the debate and that is the subject of ratification. Obviously, you didn't want to talk about it, as far as I understand. You wanted to talk about something else. Ms Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece wanted to discuss European policy in agriculture and its opposition to the European Union. Yes, sir. The Greek Solution also wanted to discuss whether Albania is good or bad and then our relations with Turkey. You wanted to discuss other issues. Good. One question, of course, is that Parliament always has an agenda, because otherwise we have a sense of education. Everyone gets up and says what's coming. Here, we have specific questions and we must put it specifically. So let me respond very quickly to the basic logic expressed and led by these two parties - the Communist Party of Greece and the Greek Solution in parliamentary order - as I understand it in the vote. The first question is: Is this part of a general Euro-Union policy? The answer here is 'no'. It's a bilateral deal. Is the general policy of our country integrated into the common agricultural policy? Of course it is. And to be informed, Mrs Manolakou, at the moment 50% -60% of our producers' income, to say it all, is derived from direct payments. Direct aid equals the common agricultural policy. To know that anyone who tells our producers that they do not like the European Union and wants to leave to do something else, says at the same time that they want to lose 50% -60% of their income. He says so at the same time. He can't say one without saying the other. However, apart from the economic situation, which is important to me, I have heard Mrs Manolakou say that the conditions for importing products from third countries are to serve, to comply with the plant health safety requirements laid down in European regulations. And you don't agree with that? So do we not have increased European plant health safety requirements?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u54	Greece could put even stricter ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u55	Very good, no one's blocking us, by the way. European policy does not prevent us from setting stricter limits. They're forbidden to go down the line. If we want to get tighter, we can put it on. This is our internal matter. If you suggest it, let's see it. But I don't understand why this is per se, this in itself, bad. As good to me, it seems to me that we have increased security requirements. Next question: is this linked to the Euro-Union question? When we conclude agreements, for example, with China - I tell you the specifics that we have now concluded, concerning Kosanis, concerning kiwis - you know what happened to our services and our producers, in order to ensure access to the market in compliance with the conditions of plant health safety laid down by the People's Republic of China? Do you know how demanding this conversation is? Do you think we should not do this in Europe? Should we not put this as a precondition? Do you also think that we should not do this in Albania when we have these bilateral relations? When we do that, is it bad? So I don't understand the cause.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u56	You're distorting my location.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u57	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u58	I'll tell what I got.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u59	The Minister did not interrupt anyone, although many speakers were out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u60	As you know, I don't mind holidays.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u61	Let me not remind you of Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u62	All I mind is taking my time off because of vacations and not holidays. Well, I say this: you include it in a more general set of objections to the European Union, and in fact here we have a bilateral agreement with a country on these issues. I come to what I will call a pseudo-ethnic critic, which the Greek Solution makes us. And why a pseudo-ethnicist? What does the Greek solution say? "I do not support this agreement, not because it of course has a problem with the agreement itself, but because I have issues with Albania and I believe that Albania is a country that has violated the human rights of the North-East, which has not respected in a number of judicial decisions the property held in Himara, etc." There may be other issues that Mr Velopoulos has not mentioned, which have to do with Albania's church property and how the state treats it. So there is a series of bilateral issues. To understand your position, to monitor it. Stop diplomatic relations? Let me see what you're saying. So you say, because there are indeed problems, no one says that our relationship with Albania is a relationship without problems, to discontinue diplomatic relations? Because if you do not say that, then I will tell you what the right place is for both Albania and the Western Balkans. You say 'Albania concludes agreements and seems to be friendly with Turkey'. Turkey obviously wants to have an active role in the Western Balkans. What exactly does Greece want to have in the western Balkans? What does he want to do? Does it want to have an active role based on its self-confidence, based on its objective advantage of being the oldest country and the most active member of the Western Balkans in the European Union and that this gives it a strategic diplomatic advantage that it is from all these countries the strongest economic country in the region with the highest income and with the highest educational level and with the best health indicators and with the most mature institutions of democracy? Is it approaching the Western Balkans with confidence or with fear? In what way do we approach them? What do you think? I heard in the place of Mr. Velopoulos something about the wolf and sheep, where the wolf is Turkey and sheep are Greece. I don't know if Mr. Velopoulos feels sheep. However, we as Greeks feel very strong and capable of dealing with any wolf. So, with this confidence, we are also approaching our relationship with the Western Balkans, but not with arrogantness, because we must respect both the sensitivities and the identities of the peoples with whom we want to cultivate relations, without negating the problems - because the problems exist - and we must not forget that there are human rights violations which we must show up and press for compliance and for pressure to lift them. However, we are doing this effectively with our strong presence, not with our withdrawal, not by leaving and not concluding any agreement, withdrawing and leaving the field free. In our active presence we raise these issues. So we build internal influences, relationships, policies that we shape with this active attitude of self-confidence, but also respect for others. Because we don't go there or subjugate them, or conquer them, or rule them. Let's work together on a common future, which is, however, a European future. We are the ones who have the opportunity to secure this and to help in all these countries. They are countries that have united us, but also history has hardened us many times. This does not mean, however, that because history separated us from us that we will forever be separated, nor does it mean that because there are problems we will not act in order to solve the problems. So, in our question. For example, in order to promote agricultural policy, our agricultural relations, cooperation with enterprises and also with Albanian producers, our relations with Albania, to tell them all, with the fact that there is a very significant number of land workers in Greece who come from Albania. Is that why all this contract's wrong with you? Why don't you like it? Why don't you vote for her? I've heard a lot about Greek-Turkish. Why are you discounting certain things that no one says except the Turks? In particular, you have put an agenda for the debates when the agenda for the debates has been set by the Greek side. It includes the debate on the continental shelf and the Exclusive Economic Zones. This is the agenda for discussions. Why do you adopt what is heard from the other side, while the Greek Government says to you: 'I will discuss it'? Why do you accept the others? I don't understand. Do you think the other side is more reliable? To find out about what has happened lately - because I see a defeated approach from a party that is supposed to be called and defended and show himself as patriotic, as bringing the flag up high and wavering it loudly and patrioticly and nicely and I will say, but you have an interpretation of defeat - in the last time Mr Erdogan has attempted to do three things: Firstly, to use migratory flows to put pressure on Greece and Europe. He was sorely failed and failed thanks to the political will to direction and guidance given by Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Secondly, it did the pseudo-convention of Turkey - Libya, which has not produced the slightest legal result, has been condemned by all international organisations, has played no role and has formed fronts in Egypt and Italy against Turkey. It's a complete failure. Thirdly, it tried to violate our sovereign rights and failed thanks to the active presence of our fleet. He attempted provokingly and aggressively and failed thanks to the presence of our fleet that prevented this violation. At the same time, of course, it was alienated. Watch out, do you show Erdogan's success in dialogue? Did Greece have a given dialogue at the table at any time and never denounced this dialogue? He has always said that the dialogue on this agenda is open and we are ready to proceed with this dialogue. Do you think the dialogue was Erdogan's request? Because Erdogan ended up begging for the dialogue after all his tactics failed. And instead of seeing a Greek leader, with confidence, with power that sets its terms on the international agenda, which sets its terms on the international ground, which follows a policy of responsibility for respect for international law, the protection of its sovereign rights, the promotion of its own issues in the international field, you are now actually coming for micro-political reasons to conclude what Erdogan says. Wasn't he saying he's going to fight us? Wasn't he telling us to take care of why we're going to suffer the pandemics? Wasn't it him and his ministers who told us they'd make us one and the other? And what ended up? To go to dialogue? From where we were going to have no place to hide, did he end up pleading for a dialogue, which we will make with our terms and our own agenda? Do you appear to be a failure? Not even he dares to say it. To his own people, what you're saying doesn't dare tell him. So why don't we all vote on this contract together? It's so easy. It's so clean and useful. We could therefore disagree on matters - I am not saying that we have to agree on foreign policy issues, all issues are open to dialogue - but not to vote on the Convention on Plant Protection, because you do not like the European Union and because we have issues with Albania, they really seem to me to be lame. But it's your right. I will remain in the fact that the vast majority of this Chamber supports this convention. We thank the parties that support it and the colleagues who have placed it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, I want the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u65	There's no personal matter. There's been criticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u66	I'm a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u67	Not provided.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, you do this all the time. I need a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u69	I don't do anything all the time. I apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u70	You're obsessed with the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u71	The Minister was entitled to answer the complaints made by the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u72	You do it all the time. You'll apologize. You always apologize.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u73	Please, Mr. Heta. There's no staff. The debate on the principle of Articles and on the whole draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food is hereby declared adjourned...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u74	I have a right as a parliamentary representative to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Heta, please, sit down. You know very well that you're not right. The debate on the principle of Articles and on the whole draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food is hereby declared adjourned...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u76	Mr. President, excuse me...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u77	What happened, Mr. President? There's no staff. What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u78	Do you not give the floor to the parliamentary representative? He's a parliamentary representative and you tell him no?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u79	You keep doing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u80	Don't say that, Mr. Heta. I do nothing all the time, I apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u81	You've asked twice for apologies to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u82	What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u83	Politicians will answer. Don't you give a parliamentary representative the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u84	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Did you, Mr President, see the answers that have been given? They're political responses.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u85	Politicians will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u86	What's personal, I want to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u87	I have a right to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u88	But it's not possible, it's personal on two occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u89	You've asked twice for apologies to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u90	Let's just explain. Under the Rules of Procedure, it is personal when there is reproach against you or alter the contents of your statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u91	When you are insulting a party, Mr President, you are obliged to give the floor to the parliamentary representative. You know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u92	Don't tell me about the Rules of Procedure. I happen to know him well, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u93	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u94	Don't tell me about me, you know I always have tolerance. Not just me, all the presidents...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u95	Mr. President, you do this all the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u96	Wait a minute, Mr. Heta. The president's talking now. Well, Mr President, here all there could be is personal. Do you believe in the answers given to you by the Minister regarding political positions that there is a staff? What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Athanasios, he spoke personally about the President of the Greek Solution. Didn't you hear that? And the other day, you didn't hear it. Twice you apologise to me so far and I accepted them. This is the third time that this is happening. When he tells you that the President must feel "sheep"...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, do not say that now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u99	I said, in general, about the behaviour of the sheep...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u100	Do not blame the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u101	Listen to me for a minute, I'd be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u102	Good. Tell me what altered your content. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u103	I'll tell you what. He cannot speak a party to another party or the Minister, Mr Vorides, who is also a friend, as to whether we feel sheep. Your policy is sheep policy, Mr Voridis. I own the Germans and the Americans I will never be. That's not what you understand. On the other hand, I did not say that we should suspend diplomatic relations. But I said this: I win - I lose it is foreign policy. We're only giving Albania. In the end, Mr Voridis, you said about the Northern Continent 15 years ago: 'Good human rights are being violated and diplomatic relations interrupted'. So that's bad too? And you say we're sheep? You are taking Greece as a sheep to the massacre - not you personally, your Prime Minister - with the dialogue. But not'sheep'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u104	You see, Mr Velopoulos, it becomes politically positioned. First of all, I would like to remind you that we are not used to doing this to the heads of state, because under Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure, no one, nor the heads of State, can be removed from the debate. But - not now, for years now - a practice for leaders to speak whenever they want to talk about any issue of topicality, as is now, Mr President, the Minister answered the objections you made about foreign policy. It wasn't personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u105	Really?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u106	It has neither offended nor altered the content of what you have said. He made a review, just like you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, my Greeks are very well. I didn't say the New Democracy was sheep. He said if the Greek Solution feels sheep. If New Democracy feels wolf, I'll tell him we're too hard to eat! We're clear about that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u108	Good. You've given the explanations. Thank you. The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food is therefore concluded: "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and Water Management of the Republic of Albania for cooperation in the field of agriculture". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u109	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u110	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u111	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and Water Management of the Republic of Albania for cooperation in agriculture’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u113	Therefore, the House granted the requested authorisation. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-24-S1-commons.u114	With the agreement of the House at 11.42' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 25 September 2020 at 9.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: a) Topical Questions debate; b) the debate on the number 21/14-202020 question of the Member of the Radical Left coalition, Mr Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "PPC's Business Plan".
