ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 25-10-20, the minutes of its session of Sunday 26 October 2020 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau.]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Regulating debts and providing a second chance'. The list has been updated, because voluntarily colleagues who spoke yesterday have been deleted - mainly from the two major parties - and therefore fewer to speak today. From the parliamentary representatives, those who have not spoken, can take the floor and from what is being informed and the Minister will speak at the end. I think we're gonna finish this early. Well, we're starting with my colleague from SYRIZA, Mrs. Catherine Papanatsiou. I say the rest of the four in the first five minutes, to get into the room, people who aren't - because they are. Mr. Nicholas, Mr. Boutsicakis, Mr. Katsis and Mr. Capatos. Ms. Papanaceu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, three days we have been discussing the proposal of distrust to the Minister of Finance on the basis of the proposal to pooren society, which the government and himself tabled. What have we heard these days from the speakers of the New Democracy? Nothing. No answer, only criticism of SYRIZA and his government service. No one has spoken of the New Democracy policy. No one defended the so-called'second opportunity'. One Member of Parliament alone, who admitted, in fact, that there is really no longer any provision for protecting the first residence, and others that'something we need to take from the debtor'. You rule, gentlemen, not SYRIZA, and you have a responsibility towards society. Wages have fallen down, unemployment is growing and you are presenting a bill on overcharge under the "second chance" title, supposedly to protect the residence of the debtors. You're making fun of the world. This bill is the final blow to society. Its application will lead the country into situations similar to those of Spain, where people were driven from their homes overnight. When the majority of EU countries, including Germany, suspend the possibility for creditors to go bankrupt, you here come to legislate exactly the opposite. The complete liberalisation of liquidity and the dismantling of small and medium-sized households and businesses. So let's see what you're planning to do. Enter bankruptcy proceedings for natural persons without distinction between an undertaking and a natural person. The bankruptcy procedure aims at fully liquidating the property and not maintaining the economic activity and ensuring it. It was therefore the latest instrument of the legislator, since the code allowed other tools to be used before bankruptcy, such as the reorganisation plan or the special management, which you are abolishing. And what do you think? bankruptcy for everyone! Two. You create a private body that will own the properties of the bankers - and I stress it - not public, despite the fact that the institutions were in agreement with a public body, this provision has suddenly changed for a strange reason your Government has chosen the private body. We asked the Minister and the committees why not 'private and not public'? As mentioned in the report of Memorandum of Surveillance, in May 2020. No answer. I think, however, that the Prime Minister in his speech yesterday, too, said about a public body. Are we going to have any change, Minister? Or did you tell him about the changes you've made? Third. The culmination of your legislature is the provisions that stipulate that any amount received by the debtor and that is more than 612 € monthly will be seized for the benefit of the creditors. You're coming around to release the payroll and pensions seizures. Fourth. The only possibility for vulnerable debtors to become tenants in their homes and to pay a rent to the private operator. After 12 years if someone wants to buy their home again, they will have to pay their commercial value without taking into account the rents paid, of course, and what he had paid from the original loan. And to set you a simple example of a poor candidate. A debtor farmer will be found on the basis of your bill, without fields as he will be liquidated and without main residence after passing into the hands of the fund. So this man, on what basis and from what production will he have income to pay the private body rent? From what fields? But if he obtains income from other sources, how will he live, as you confiscate anything that goes beyond reasonable costs? The settlement of overcompensation throughout the world has the meaning of reintegration of the debtors into the productive and social life of the place. You, however, bring a deep antisocial bill of mass poverty once again. You have tabled at the same time, incomprehensible provisions in the form of amendments and I shall refer to some of them. Tax exemptions, such as reduction of VAT. the introduction of original works of art, which are challenging at this juncture and in particular for the world of culture that denounces its non-support by the government. You have also tabled new regulations that fail to meet the needs of society. Then why don't they take over the entire period of health measures? And secondly, why does the government assume that citizens can pay in the pandemic? I'm afraid we'll see the time to evacuate. We, from the outset, stressed that we would support positive measures for society, but with suspensions and extensions, without injecting liquidity and strengthening the labour market, there would be no way out for those affected by the pandemic. By tabling multi-page amendments, the government has tried to blur water and to confuse the debate in the House. The print of the new bankruptcy code, however, does not erase, as the "bulk" does not erase in health and economic collapse. We're on alert. You told us you had a plan for the country. We know. It is the overall restructuring of the market. From the attack on your labor and economic analgesia every day it is confirmed that you do not care about the welfare of the country. You gave forgiveness to the bankers, who have given you sea loans in the past few years, and now you are bringing a law cut and sewn to their measures. Gentlemen of the government, the citizens have risen to their backs for ten years of crisis, which your own policies have led them to and are on the forefront of a new crisis, which your own policy leads them back to. Respect them. We will not allow you to turn the country into a "extended field", to favour the economic cycles you serve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u3	Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law comes to address the great problem of overcompensation for households and businesses. A problem that clearly affects the course of the Greek economy, the liquidity of the Greek businesses, their viability, the attraction of investment and the creation of jobs. In conclusion, we should see in this law the situation that has been shaped up to now and which the law is coming to regulate. Private debt has reached the unthinkable heights of EUR 234 billion, far more than the European average. Excessive borrowers are inconvenienced either by waiting for their case to be dealt with by the Katseli Act by buying time, by waiting for fatal enforcement measures to be taken against them, or by awaiting the completion of the long-term bankruptcy procedure. Applications for membership of the Katselis Act, which have been pending in recent years, go beyond seventy-five thousand, half of which have been identified from June 2021 to 2032, and few cases have led to full debt relief. The auctions that took place in the years of SYRIZA rule have reached twenty-five thousand six hundred eighty-two and these auctions have been completed. The bankruptcy procedures last for many years, holding hostage debtors and lenders. We must therefore admit that the current legislative framework has failed. A large number of citizens are trapped and excluded from economic activity. In the face of this situation, ladies and gentlemen, of the Staff Regulations, you should make constructive proposals. I did not expect a plan, because you did not have a plan, nor did you implement your years of governance. On the contrary, you are striving for your friendly policy, the rise of populism, which has culminated in a motion of censure, in the present critical national context, which has finally highlighted, not only the size of your irresponsibility, but also the size of your hypocrisy. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law radically reforms the framework for dealing with the financial weakness of the citizen, the collective satisfaction of creditors, the discharge of any person or legal person's debts, which undertakes an economic activity, regardless of whether this activity is business or not. Procedures to be introduced shall be in line with the provisions of European Directives. It is ensured that viable enterprises and entrepreneurs, in financial difficulties, will have access to effective national frameworks for preventive restructuring which will enable them to continue operating. It is ensured that honestly indebted entrepreneurs can be fully exempted from their debts, after a reasonable period of time, which will give them a second chance. It is ensured that restructuring, insolvency and debt relief are improved. Of particular importance, it is the possibility for all natural persons to be exempted from debts within three years of the declaration of bankruptcy. In fact, in the event that natural persons go bankrupt and contribute to the bankruptcy service, the exemption shall be made more quickly after one year after the declaration of bankruptcy has been declared bankrupt. A real second opportunity is therefore given to households and businesses for a new start, as the bankruptcy process does not target and stigmatize the poor, but leads to a debt relief, to banks, tax and insurance funds. In particular, I want to focus on some critical arrangements. Under this draft law, property is not being liquidated without provision for the actual vulnerable social groups, since a pioneering property acquisition and renegotiation entity is provided for, through which the debtor will be allowed to remain in the property against a lease for twelve years. For this entire period, the State will grant a monthly rental allowance, while the institution will be legally obliged to enable the citizen to regain his home if he so wishes. This was not thought of by the left-wing government, when it legislated on abolishing first-place protection or thinking about it, but did not have time to do so. Before that, however, there is a real out-of-court settlement mechanism, with the possibility of adjusting even to the public, with payments that can reach forty-five, as well as the institution of resolution for businesses, by developing an early warning mechanism. Ladies and gentlemen, I should certainly like to make a reference to the resolution of an issue, by means of an amendment tabled, concerning loans guaranteed by the Greek State. An issue, which has been a brake for many years, about the prefecture I represent, the Elijah Prefecture, which, due to the natural disasters which have hit it, has a large number of such loans, particularly those given to restore our firefighting fellow citizens. A problem that has remained unresolved for many years and for which I have been claiming a solution since the first days of my term of office. The provision for adjusting the loans, those that have been established in the Greek State in a hundred and twenty instalments, provides a way out and a solution. Banks, where these loans remain in them and have not yet been established, should be switched to such arrangements. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government is making a great deal of effort to tackle a major problem. To address existing red loans, with a view to financing the real economy and to providing incentives for attracting investment. We continue our reform work for the better functioning of the Greek economy within the framework of the European market. So I invite you to vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u5	Mr Emmanuel Boutsikakis is on the move.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u7	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a difficult period, the longest period of tension and challenge from our neighbours. At the same time, we are living in an unprecedented global social and, consequently, economic crisis. At the time that so much is at stake for our country, while the Greek people are struggling, Mr. Tsipras proceeds to an act of insurmountable irresponsibility, tabling a completely pretext of reproach against the Minister of Finance. You have shown that you are the party that is only interested in serving its micro-party interests. SYRIZA's chief was led into a despair move. It is, I think, really the opposition deadlock that you have led, because of your essential indifference to the problems of citizens. All over the altar of the chair. This time, not of the government, but of the leadership of your party, a party that flies every day. Finally, you should understand that the Greeks and Greek women, together the Greek society - even your party audience - has turned your back in return. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last three days, we have debated today's draft law in detail. A piece of legislation that society needs, the economy and the country needs. In the last three days, the Greek citizen also realized that, despite your lies, SYRIZA, under the laws of Mr. Drasakis and Mr. Tsakalotos, was the one who abolished the protection of the first residence. In the last three days, it became clear to everyone that it was Mr. Tsipras's government that closed the eyes to the banks, mocking the Greeks, with the false slogans "No house in the hands of a banker". You did not provide any protection to anyone. You blocked red loans from any regulation and your law could not work in practice. The responsibility lies not only with Mr Tsakaloto. It burdens all of you who then legislated. And, above all, it is Mr Alexis Tsipras who is responsible for the then Prime Minister. No one has forgotten, in this country, that millions of bank confiscations were issued by banks and the public by the SYRIZA. Without protection, wages, pensions, bank accounts and other income of debtors. In common, you sold out the property of the Greeks. Whatever you say, no matter what you say, it doesn't change anything you've done. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is clear, comprehensive and innovative, a real second opportunity, a new beginning, a new beginning for all. The aim is to put an end to the wounds of decades for hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens. From 1-1-2021, the truly weak debtors will regulate their debt favourably or be exempted from it, on criteria. We delete all debts from citizens and businesses that have full financial weakness or their debt is unsustainable. All in three stages: The first is a preventive mechanism for prompt notice of the debtor so that it does not go bankrupt. The second stage is the settlement of debts, which will be ratified in court. The third is bankruptcy. This will lead to a debt-free and relaunching of business, really giving the second chance. It is clear that the purpose of the bill is to avoid bankruptcy, especially for natural persons and the protection of first residence. Our predictions have a strong social character. At the settlement stage, all seizures and auctions shall be suspended. After the consultation stage, the weaker will receive a special grant for the instalments of the new loan. Even at the final stage of bankruptcy, vulnerable households will not lose their homes from a new owner. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a permanent programme, without duration or deadline. From now on, it is a stable social support policy for all, but above all for vulnerable social groups. We are establishing an out-of-court mechanism with debt arrangements of up to forty instalments for all debts to banks, public authorities, loan managers and insurance funds. Moreover, the debtor can save not only his first residence but also his entire property. At the same time, he protects his bank accounts, his wages, his pensions and all his incomes in general. The Prime Minister said the new framework becomes social law and fertile business. It is clear that we are strengthening the weak debtors, ensuring the productive viability of businesses. At the same time, it is a development bill as it removes weights from households and businesses, protects the world of work and strengthens social cohesion. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill that we are voting on today, we are providing a comprehensive, definitive and permanent solution to the problem of the overcompensation of Greek citizens and businesses. And I urge you for all these reasons to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u9	The floor will be taken by the MP of SYRIZA, Mr. Irene Agathopoulou. Then there is Mr. Cappatos and we will continue with Mr. Stylion, Mr. Nikos Papas, Mr. Ioannis Economou, Mrs. Theanos Fotio and Mr. Konstantinos Zachariadis. I'm reporting the names from now to warn those who aren't in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the three-day day that we spent was one of the top and most serious, in our view, parliamentary procedures. We have tabled a motion of censure against the Minister of Finance, Mr Stakoura, on the unacceptable bankrupt bill, whose debate is continuing today. We have asked for this debate, among other things, and for an in-depth debate to be held on the bill, so that we can give the world the opportunity to learn what is what you intend to vote on today. What does the bankruptcy bill include and who does it involve? Because the media hides what this law includes and hides it with care. And they hide his robbery direction and they also hide the "gift" you make in the banks. So in this debate, on the three-day, ladies and gentlemen of the Coupling, I am sorry to say it, but your picture was really depressing. We had, on the New Democracy side, meaningless monologues as if they were all written by the same scholar, without following the debate and simply doing what you have been doing for a year and a half. A opposition to SYRIZA and a swollen propaganda forgetting that before SYRIZA, for many years, with various combinations either on your own, or co-governing with other parties in various combinations, you are the ones who brought the country into this situation and today you continue it as if there were not even the period of governance of SYRIZA. So you continue this propaganda by literally applying Gibels. Say, say, say, something's gonna stay in the end. And I will only mention some of the lies that you mentioned here in this three-day debate with the first and best of what was heard about the auctioning of the first home, that they started under SYRIZA's rule even though it was SYRIZA who tried with nails and teeth toward the institutions that claimed first home auctions. They were asked with all their powers. It was SYRIZA who ensured the protection of the first residence for as long as he ruled. Even Mr.Adonis Georgiadis forgot what he said on 13 January 2020 and said here that SYRIZA abolished the protection of the first residence. While 13 January 2020, he said for the following reason: ‘Of course I stress that there will be no framework for absolute protection of the dwelling from 30 April 2020 onwards’. And I say this today because I do not want to spoil our hearts after 30 April. So it is not possible that there was, but, at the same time, and that there was to end and confirm it, and Mr Stavourras in the report to the institutions. Mr. Tsipras mentioned it yesterday. I don't have to talk about it. Another lie. In the debate that took place on the occasion of dealing with the pandemic, you also referred to health structures and were not ashamed to blame SYRIZA for the inadequacies of public health. Here, of course, you were not ashamed to say that 37 billion pillow was your achievement. So for health, you told us, first and foremost, and you tell us at every opportunity, that it was NW that covered the uninsured. Look at that. You can say what you want, but people remember and remember all 5 euros, remember that we had no drugs to cover the uninsured, remembers that uninsured people could not have access to public hospitals, all that remembers. Also, answer us, for the last 15 months that you have been ruling, how many appointments, permanent recruitments, have you been in public health? Although you had ready invitations, ready notices and budgets for ten thousand jobs in public health and you did not even go halfway. And the other day, you started an ITH without doctors. Also, the Prime Minister himself yesterday was not ashamed, on the world day against breast cancer, of policing and of announcing free mastography to women 49 and 50 years old, and already in 2018 the free mastography for women from 40 years old and over and I will deposit the FEK in the Minutes of the Parliament. You were not ashamed in here to mention that the Chamber, the seat of SYRIZA, was empty, and you know very well that up to 15 SYRIZA Members could follow the procedure. So your courage and political pitifulness did not have any limits in these three days. So since the media are also playing this game, your own game, our MPs, who are part of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, have been forced to request a special meeting of the committee so that the chairman of the National Broadcasting Council can put questions of pluralism and ultimately democracy in the media, because they are indeed matters of democracy. Let me go to the bill, with which, for the first time, they are bankrupt, except for business, and natural persons and households. We'll actually see Spanish scenes in Greece the next time with this law here. I won't tell you what SYRIZA says. You heard in the committees and in the hearing of bodies that those who were drafted by the bill were the banks, mainly, while the lawyers' representatives, trade union economists, consumer associations were drafted at the Athens Chamber of Commerce as well. His president, Mr. Hadjithedosiou, said: "If the bill is in force, it will, in essence, be a new recapitalisation of the banking system from Greek people's money. And don't forget, he said, "that three more recapitalisations have taken place. The government must make improvements to this point. It is clearly its own wish that banks and no foreign lender have put this request in favour." The President of the Athens Chamber of Commerce said so. He also estimated that if the contents of the bill do not change more than fifty thousand businesses, only in Athens, they are closed down. So these are the reasons why we are also voting against this bill today, but as the President of SYRIZA announced, it will be the first law to be abolished by the SYRIZA government when it is re-elected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. Mr Cappatos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my argument on the bill we are debating today, I would like to remind the House today and my colleague that the one who abolished the first residence protection was the previous Minister of Finance Mr Tsakalots, in February 2018. How did Mr Georgiadis find it found that we have at the end of April 2020 the end of protection of the first residence from the extensions that you were forced to follow after February 2018 when you officially ended this law and with bogey that protection of the first residence and why did you end it? You will have forgotten that it was not you who did it but the rule of law made it by the foreign states, by the foreign forces to which you were unable to object. And I stress this because before you took over the power you were the ones who said that with a law and an article you will tear the memorials, you will change Greece's economic policy. Finally, you have not succeeded but you have been distracted by your word and have continued to do what has been brought to you by the foreign forces which you have not been able to implement in a proper way. But today we need to comment on the current bill which I did not hear in my previous colleague's report was only 10 seconds, five and fifty times he kept talking as a reaction to government policy and 10 seconds it was for the bankruptcy bill. The debate in the bill enables us to redefined concepts and ideas that we often ignore. It allows us to remember what separates the political forces from each other and gives the citizen the right to choose, a choice between different political proposals and attitudes of life that vary. However, let us look at points of the draft law that we consider to be important and necessary. In accordance with Article 7, use of the regulation mechanism may also make up-to-date debtors subject to a proven deterioration in their financial situation, at least 20% due to a reduction in their incomes or an increase in their expenditure. With Article 28, vulnerable debtors who are either informed or regulated their loans will be able to receive a grant for repayment of their loans starting from EUR 70 to EUR 210 per month. Articles 75 to 211, reform the existing bankruptcy framework, extend bankruptcy to all natural persons and citizens are fully exempted from their debts within three years of the declaration of bankruptcy. We thus provide a strong incentive for these fellow citizens to work and rebuild property. However, Articles 227 to 262 also include provisions governing matters of insolvency administrators. For example, the identification of the qualifications required for the exercise of the profession, the establishment of an insolvency management committee providing the professional licence concerned, and the conditions for participation in the certification examinations. But what does the second chance mean, and what is our duty as legislators to provide it equally for the citizens? It is the possibility for all our compatriots to make a new start without obstacles, to be at the forefront on terms of parity. But it is also an obligation for the state to defend the rule of law by protecting the weak citizen from the one who systematically refuses to meet the obligations and risks he has undertaken. With this bill, we are responding to a serious problem of businesses and natural persons. We are preventing its negative effects before we get to grips with them by establishing the mechanism of provision for insolvency for natural persons or businesses who may be in an early stage of difficulties. We are dealing with the bankruptcy process by reforming the existing institutional framework, making it as essential and effective as possible for the benefit of the directly concerned. What other political force has dared to intervene in an archaic confession and a finding of bankruptcy code, a code of anti-social, anti-commercial and ultimately social unfairness? We therefore give a real second chance to the Greek citizens to clean up their unfinished assets, for which they were literally dragged into a dead end. For our first residence and fellow citizens who face the inhuman danger of eviction, we predict the most dignified solution. We abandon the virtual reality of supposed protection, which, in fact, proved to be a waste. It is only enough to report to you cases of redundancies debtors, for whom they were asked to pay twenty percent of the commercial value of the first home. And if this example is not sufficient to reflect the truth, consider only the legal status we leave behind. Think of the possibility for banking institutions to press for an eviction, if the citizen was late to pay three months of loan. It is enough to realize that something must finally be changed. Andreas Lascaratos wrote in one of his texts, "surely, after so many centuries where the world was built, we cannot know whether they are fraudsters or whether they are telling the truth". In this dilemma of intelligent Lexouriotis, debt regulation and a second chance are responding. It distinguishes the law from the injustice, equality from its abuse, those who are truly weak from those who systematically avoid their obligations and finally makes those political forces which really believe in social justice and the right to re-start, those who pretextly invoke them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u13	The Member of the New Democracy, George Stylos. Here you go, Mr. Style.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's debate in Parliament has shown in every way that the Civic Opposition has chosen to repeat its old self. It follows the rhetoric that followed in 2012-2014, with excesses, great words and extreme speech. It remains in one sense that, by repeating the same methodology, the same pattern, as in scientific research, will have the same results. But this is where the data have changed and the environment has changed. The conditions in which you are going to re-examine and repeat the same experiment have changed. Society is elsewhere. Citizens are more mature than SYRIZA and what they want is just to move their lives forward in the next day. Ladies and gentlemen, after a ten-year financial crisis, a large part of productive Greece is deeply injured and I am not only talking about the employees who have lost part of their earnings, but about small and medium-sized enterprises, free professionals, who have been bankrupt and employees who have, unfortunately, lost their jobs. In our country the word bankruptcy is intertwined with failure and economic marginalization. bankruptcy is a stigma followed by natural persons and their children, for years, when in other countries it is a painful, difficult station on their business paths and paths. And this is more visible in small local communities, in the Greek province, in the region, where we see diffuse seals of companies that haunt people and their failure. As a society we have to change this all and because this change does not come on its own, the New Democracy Government is legislating in this direction. It's changing Bankruptcy Law. I ask, how many years has a legislative initiative been taken, to take a legislative initiative, to change bankruptcy law? It's been decades. We therefore have the obligation to give those who have been in this difficult position a second chance, using the best European practices and all the modern means that digital technology gives us, creating a favourable landscape, so that part of productive Greece gets back into the game, get life back into its hands. The benefit will be multiple, and we all understand it. The government is trying to deal effectively and effectively with the chronic problem of the growth of private debt, which limits the country's productive potential and deprives valuable resources from development operations. At the same time, transparent rules and a clear framework are being formed, while incentives are being created for investments, because you know it and we all understand that bankruptcy law has a new role to attract investment in the country and, furthermore, when it is clear that the message is being sent and the rules are transparent, then it is easier to know how to make an investment and it knows how it will be blocked by the business initiative it has taken. And here, another point, which I must point out and be careful about, is the following. Laws have been passed on many and different fields, but which, many times, do not apply and do not apply, because in our case there is a great administrative impossibility to implement and complete these procedures. Because of administrative weakness, there is at the moment a large number of cases in the country's pacifist courts concerning the Katseli law. More than eighty-five thousand cases are pending, and there are our clandestine fellow citizens, familymen who live every day with this concern. So we have a complete administrative weakness with today's tools. Ladies and gentlemen, the government with its legislative initiative is today trying to deal with the problem by means of dialogue and goodwill. A second chance is therefore made, by introducing the extrajudicial mechanism of debt regulation, which will enable both natural and legal persons to regulate their debts to all their creditors, financial institutions, public and social security institutions. By reforming the existing bankruptcy framework, for the first time, the possibility of bankruptcy is provided to any natural person while at the same time seeking to speed up bankruptcy procedures, by preventing bankruptcy and by allowing the reintroduction of productive means into use. The logic of the provision of a second chance provides that the debtor does not lose his or her license to pursue a profession and can therefore soon proceed to the creation of a post-court property. Three are the main axes of the legislative initiative. Prevention, so that we do not get to the difficult and unpleasant conditions, to deal with the improvement and rapid bankruptcy process and to relaunch the second opportunity. It is worth mentioning the regulations that have been taken, in terms of vulnerable social groups. Ladies and gentlemen, opposition is reacting. But what does he propose? Do we have to stand by the regime that exists to date? The government continues its legislative work, along with the crises, which come without its own responsibility and which it successfully faces. He owes this to the Greek citizens who trusted her. Our enemy is the problems of the country, and that is what we have to deal with, and at the end of the day the people will judge us all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u15	The Deputy of SYRIZA, Nikos Papapas, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Stavoura, the draft law, which you have put to the vote, has some fundamental problems of approaching and of philosophy. It is based on the principle that bankruptcies in Greece are very few, and I am mainly talking about the issue of legal entities, and that is why we cannot go any further in development. It adopts the appalling logic we read in the Pissaridis report, which says that small and medium-sized enterprises are late, are non-productive, and the fact that we have a few bankruptcies is what keeps the economy back. I wonder what kind of people can talk this way about businesses, which keep 80% to 85% of employment in the Greek economy. It also has a second problem of approach and philosophy, which is fundamental, which also identifies the process of debt regulation of the natural person with the bankruptcy of companies, a single, no different approach. Under Western countries' bankruptcy law, the debt arrangement of the natural person is to enable the person to be reinstated and reinitiated. How exactly are you going to restart a person you leave nothing to? And you said, we won't have the problem with the legacy apologies, what legacy of the confiscated? This argument we have made, which you have come to your mind and I think that there will be no protection of the first residence and do not repeat it, not only by Mr Staikoras and you, but also by the majority Members, because this morning we opened the website of the Private Debt Management Secretariat, which refers precisely, Mr. Kourmont, you are smiling under the mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u17	(Minister of Finance):... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u18	So, let them now, how many have been done, here you gave and recommended to Mr. Mitsotakis to lie. This is to go out and admit or tell Mr. Kourmossi, who sits behind you to change the website of the Private Debt Management Secretariat. It's not both. And is there a problem of timing, let's say that you believe it deeply, that in an economy, businesses must be cleansed in the eye, that workers are made redundant, that their fixed assets are now being liquidated? In the biggest recession we've had since the crisis of the beginning of the last decade? Did Mr Mitsotakis prepare you for this step yesterday, I do not know if you understood it, he said that the results of the third quarter are coming and that we will also incorporate the negative effects of the precipitation of tourism and do you really consider this recipe to be appropriate in this particular economic context? We're really impressed. What do the agencies say? GEBE: "You take no measures to protect first residence, however these lead to the loss of the property of businesses and citizens. Small businesses at 81% are at risk of bankruptcy.' EVENTS: "It is hypocrisy to talk about protecting the first residence". HSY: "Second bankruptcy chance yes, second chance of the poor, no". Athens Chamber of Commerce: "If the law is passed as it is, it enters a tombstone into tens of thousands of businesses". Loan Protection Association: 'There will be an uncontrolled spread of bankruptcy'. Federation of Attica Biotechnic Associations: “Indirect blackmail leading citizens to auctions”. Law-Laws: 'Obviously confiscated wages and pensions'. We have raised the issue of rent compensation, we have raised the issue of the obligation on the extrajudicial compromise. You are not listening to this, of course, because, according to our own governance, private debt has been reduced, which has been built on the first two Memorandums and, of course, red loans have also been reduced. And the monstrous, we did not expect to hear it and we heard it from Mr. Mitsotakis' lips, said that the pillow is yours. Honestly, I am thinking of whether the characterisation of the political fraud is rather modest than what should be heard in this Chamber and it is admirable for the courage, especially of a person who holds this position in our democracy. I'll say two things about the technical companies. Technical companies, together with others, are at risk of multiple pressures, accumulated problems from the past time and the fact that you have frozen all major and medium-sized public projects. In your programme you said that with large public projects, forty thousand new jobs will be created, you have frozen everything. I was in Elijah the day before, where the works had proceeded. Mr. Catarini, you will also listen to them and be careful what you are going to say. These projects were being implemented and I must inform you that your own Member, the local one, has set a time limit for your Minister to relaunch the project. So you also have a policy in this area that will accumulate the problems. Of course, you will have to remember and that is what we have to tell you, that this bill was the beginning of your isolation policy, because you yourself voted for it. This is the second time in the last few days you've been isolated. The first was outside the courtroom, when all the democratic progressive world heard that the criminal organization of the Golden Dawn was condemned and from there, you were absent. Yesterday you voted on your own today, you will vote on your own and you will have this to remember, because you will pay for it and you will pay dearly both popular anger and popular disapproval.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u19	The Member of the New Democracy, Mr. Ioannis Economou, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, the private debt in our country amounts to EUR 234 billion. This debt is a night bomb on the foundations, not only of the Greek economy but also of entrepreneurship and society in general. In creating this debt, the economic situation has obviously played a role, as we experienced it in its different versions in the last ten years and it is also true that all the political forces have tried in various ways to deal with this problem, but unfortunately not effectively, as we all know. The bill we are discussing today, which was the occasion for the motion of distrust against the Minister of Finance, which received disapproval, not the disapproval of formal, electoral, but the disapproval of politics, with the development of the arguments on the part of the Government and the New Democracy Parliamentary Group in the last few days, comes to be a structured effort to tackle this problem. In the committees, in the extensive dialogue months before his statement here, but also in the debate which took place until Thursday afternoon, his arguments of support were developed, the articles were developed, the new predictions which I will come to some of them shortlyer. I believe that it is important today in my position, as well as in the citizens who are listening to us and in the Chamber, to deal a little with the core of the criticism of the Civic Opposition. Point one: it tells us, Minister, Mr President, that the Civic Opposition is coming for the New Democracy to take the homes of many with this bill and give them to the banks, to the few. In other words, it comes within the framework of a parliamentary democracy to accuse us of putting our hands and taking our eyes out, that we are going to the thousands of people who have debts, who are in danger of their residence, and we are coming to take them violently to give it to the few. Like elections in this place, they'll never happen again. As if we are going to our districts, where we go to our friends, there we go to the workplace, we meet only shipowners, millionaires and bankers, who have been anxious when the rest of the houses will be taken. Are you serious? Do you really believe that this argument can withstand any common sense at the level of Greek society? A parliamentary party such as the New Democracy - tell us what you want - which has proved historically to have proved its powerful people's roots, put before it or come to legislate, to put the thousands of people who have the most sacred thing to do in the first place? I'm telling you, to show you once again how out of place and time and theme you are at the core of your argument. Subject: What do you say to us? You say a lot about the first residence, but avoid, as you do on all the hottest, the burning issues, the difficult issues that a responsible government, every government in charge, must face, to get to the bottom of it. You're tearing down people's pain. One that he owes, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, whether he is an entrepreneur or a private person, in whatever way he owes, is there any way he can find a solution if he does not pay? Will one of you tell that simple truth? Today, with the current framework, is there any chance of not paying? By law, Katseli, to keep his house, what was he supposed to do? Shouldn't he, at the beginning, pay 80% of the objective value, later 100% of the trade or 120% by law SYRIZA? Any businessman, small and medium-sized, trader, craftsman, anyone in financial difficulties, is there any chance that he will leave these financial difficulties if he doesn't pay? Today, we are talking about a person who does not engage in commercial activity and has debts, is he not vulnerable to confiscations in his accounts, to anything? Is it possible to relaunch a business activity? Can 1 euro legally enter his account without being seized? What's he doing? It turns on the black economy. It works 'black'. It moves to the limits of law and lawlessness. His life is bound up with the next generations. Ladies and gentlemen, you have said more. But these two, which are the core of your criticism, are the characteristic of our mentality, seriousness and logic, with which you approach issues that hurt society and people without doubt, but which owe a responsible government to deal with them and which is another characteristic of our fundamental difference in the way in which we see both the country and the society and governance. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are bringing in a law which, in a unified context, tries to address a fundamental issue, a law that spreads a protection net to vulnerable people, grants the possibility of repayment of the housing loan, ensures that the world does not get out of the way, has a residence, has a second chance, gives it a second chance, speed up procedures to return to the production process. The criticism we accept is the product of your choice to terrorize the weak. It is critical of'soft', and we have raised it in the past few days. But we, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, are voting for a law which comes to deal with a very difficult issue. I want here, Minister, to say that our government must not leave this law to its fate. She must have her reflexes, eyes and ears open. I have heard you say yesterday that 'the law is being passed today, it does not mean that it is being implemented immediately'. We live in exceptional circumstances, there are suspensions, we owe these, we keep track of them. We must, however, be absolutely careful and coordinate in respect of the spirit of the law, and I say this, Minister, because there are little cases where the spirit of this law - the spirit of the law - is extrajudicial arrangements - is to be given a solution, not to exhaust people. There are cases where banks and other clearers, for example. "PQH" in which hundreds of borrowers of cooperative banks are trapped throughout Greece and our homeland in Fthiotida, show many times that they do not understand this spirit. We must therefore take the measures, by means of the means we have, to show the direction of the policy which all the economic factors must follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u21	I forgot this morning, with the good day I wish for all of us many years to celebrate colleagues, workers, journalists in the House, Dimitris and Dimitris. Mrs Theano Fotio will now be given the floor by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure against the Minister of Finance and the government's expressor and accelerating bankruptcy law, I think, has already brought significant results. The first is that he showed the nakedness of the government's arguments. Almost no one but the Minister of Finance defended the law. On the contrary, as the previous speaker has just pointed out, the law does not apply, especially under the present circumstances. You did not defend the law, we dealt with SYRIZA exclusively, because the propaganda had given a little dust, you had to say that everything you bring 'bad' was already done by SYRIZA. The three-day breaks the media silence wall. Many citizens know that they were being taken to the media and said "why don't you say about the law?" Thirdly, because the opposition has voted in favour of the motion of censure and will vote against the law today. But what are the objectives of the law? For the first time, all Greek citizens can go bankrupt and not just large businesses. I mean, the retired, the housewife, the worker, the civil servant, everyone. Secondly, the liquidation of movable and immovable property is a priority for anyone who is bankrupt and not the survival of himself or his business. Thirdly, it takes from the people, what they owe not only at the time of bankruptcy, but then what they gain in the future. Fourthly, it enables the banks only to initiate these procedures and not the public. Fifthly, it abolishes the protection of the first residence for all - poor and medium-sized layers. Sixth, it mocks the poorest that "after losing their home, for twelve years they will pay rent", so they will buy it at commercial value, which will be in 2032, not counting what they have given for the loan, nor the rent. That was not done by any government until today. The question is: What does the massive bankruptcy of a people already bankrupt? It makes sense, because the Greeks have been investing their savings in housing over time, so that, on the one hand, we have one of the highest percentages of private housing in Europe and, on the other, a small percentage of bank deposits. Greeks don't deposit to the banks. This so-called 'anomaly' is corrected by Mr Mitsotakis' bankruptcy code, which goes hand in hand with the correction of the second 'anomaly', which small and medium-sized enterprises - that is, 81% of all Greek companies - must be merged, closed. The bankrupt people, i.e. they have property, their residence, and she has invested, and she is in danger, losing, because 'he must not reinvest his money in the roof and in the small and medium-sized family business, but save the banks to make investments', as Mr Mitsotakis said. So you are exterminating for the second time the middle layers and not just the poor because they are the ones that lost from 2009 to 2015 with a New Democracy government - where Mr Mitsotakis was Minister - 36% of their incomes. See the details of ELSTAT, which I submitted the day before yesterday. They are the same layers that had taken the loans from 2012 to 2015. Watch me a bit, because this period is dark. 'X' in your argument. There is no one in 2012-2015, no one has ruled with PASOK. In 2012-2015, therefore, loans from 62 billion in 2012 to 103 billion in 2015 were launched, i.e. 66% increase. 66% increase with a government of New Democracy and Minister of State Mr Mitsotakis. It was then that one out of five citizens moved from middle to poor. Eight hundred twenty-two thousand in five million, representing the middle class, lost 36% of their income. They are today, the same, the middle layers, which have remained in the middle and have lost 36% of their incomes and the ones that had moved to the poor. They are the ones who are now ideally bankrupt on the basis of your bill. They're going to go bankrupt. They're, they're not the poor, they didn't have any homes. Four lies are in the conversation. The first is that ‘the SYRIZA had abolished the protection of the first residence’. Do you know that in February 2020 Mr Stakoras tells the institutions that 'protection of first residence will expire in April 2020'? Mercy, it's against reason. Secondly, SYRIZA increased the auctions. We challenged you yesterday, bring us a first home auction. Thirdly, the indebted households will be three difficult years later, but they will be over. While, today, children are renounced the legacy of their parents. The truth is that the law that is in force gives the right to get rid of debts without going bankrupt and losing their property. The truth is, if the law Stakoura - Mitsotakis is applied, children will not be repudiated because they will have already been taken away from them, there will be no legacy. Fourth lie: The bankruptcy of natural persons existed in the law of Katseli. Lies, because the present regime did not go bankrupt by natural persons. [[At this point, the speaking bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Are we saying there's hope? There is. Not deceiving the second opportunity but helping households today, two million households with the emergency income you do not make, because with a repayable advance for businesses rather than going bankrupt and closing them, which you do not just do, you give them new loans, new loans as aid, and finally, with the protection of first homes. We are obviously voting against the law today, and I think that yesterday there was an extremely important statement that we will abolish it just as soon as our people reinstate their power. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u23	The first ten is completed with Mr. Konstantinos Zachariadis, by SYRIZA. I address the next five colleagues: Mr Kavadas, Mrs Christidou, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, Mr Apostolos, Mr Haritsis. Mr Zachariadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. This law, Mr. Stakoura, the government of Mr. Mitsotakis, will indeed remain in history. Because it is the law of deception of the middle class, the violent liquidation and the depletion of the hardshipd citizens, who have fallen into weakness because of the crisis, because of the increase in unemployment, because of the present instability in the country, in Europe, in the world. This law, which you will be voting on this afternoon, will be abolished. No matter how much you mock, no matter how much you laugh. Because you're not mocking and you're not laughing at us. You mock the little one and the middle one that will lose his fortune. The country with a progressive government will again protect its first residence, will again have a housing policy, will feel every Greek citizen's stability and security for the "keramide" which is above his head. What are you voting on this afternoon? That if, for example, someone has taken a loan of EUR 200,000 and paid for EUR 150,000 and now, for example, we have a recession in quarter 15% - and come to discuss them - and loses their jobs, loses their ownership, the bank takes it, stays 12 years in rent and then, has the right to buy first commercial price. I mean, he's lost 12 years of rent, he's lost what he's given, he's lost his job because of injustice, and that's the terrible great protection. This is the reality, this is what you are shaping, you want to take advantage of this crisis as an opportunity, so that anyone who owes it and finds itself unable to rely on it not to go back on it but to be able to buy these assets at absolute prices, liquidity and market failure. And then you do it there, tenant forever. It has been said twice, Mr Stavrou, and I am surprised that despite the differences in the important ideological policies for his area, he is a serious and good economist, with great differences with us. Mr Stavoura, do you come and play for 2019, on the performance of the economy as a New Democracy, on the fact that we have been above the European average, or do you recognize to us as SYRIZA that we have done well? It is or is not the data of the quarters +1.3% for the first quarter of SYRIZA, +2.8% for the second quarter of SYRIZA, + 2.3% 7 days SYRIZA, 83 days New Democracy - but the climate was obviously influenced by the SYRIZA government - minus 1% in the fourth quarter and thus came 2.9%. How did 2,9 % come? As soon as you have taken over, they said: 'What a pleasure Mr Stavouras has said'. And all right, Mr. Stagioras, Mr. Georgiadis, Mr. Hatzidakis, the other one, and the economy began to grow and a contraction of the S.A. came out. Fourth quarter? Take the floor later and explain it to us. You, what you did on the basis of ELSTAT's confirmed figures, and EUROSTAT, are that you have brought down from the fourth quarter of 2019. They have always been, Mr Staikora, because you are a congressman, I think, in the country's previous bankruptcy. Depression, unemployment, social equality, social analgesia. If you recognize it as a credit to us, indeed. And see how the economy can stand up again and move on. So that is the policy you want to follow in the housing sector. Mr. Georgiadis saw them from February, where did he say? There should be no protection of first residence. In no advanced economy there is no such economy, but of course, that we have over 40% of young people's unemployment here tells him nothing. It's a great deal of damage to the economy and he told us that "we're going to ruin our hearts" for those who don't go into regulation until April. Why "we'll ruin our hearts" after SYRIZA had abolished everything? Why didn't we already spoil them when it was a SYRIZA government? So you make a specific choice to citizens or banks, society or banks, middle-class or banks, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship or banks, you choose the banks. You've always made these choices and never stood by the citizen. I want to make two reports before I close. One has to do with Mr Chrysochide's unbelievable position yesterday, for the twelve miles. It's national naive and politically dangerous. But since there was a debate this evening about patriotism, nationalism and all this, if you are looking for nationalists - and I am not saying that our party does not say that your party has a significant contribution to the establishment of democracy, to resistance and to everything - but if you are looking for nationalists you will not find them on the Left or the Progressive Order. You'll find them on the coup d'état, they're the ones who said it's treason, the Ambassadors' deal, they're the ones who said that we exchanged pensions with the Macedonian, they're the ones who said they're gonna veto Northern Macedonia, but for Turkey now they're denouncing us for pillage, they're the gentlemen of the New Democracy, who're currently sitting in the cabinet and they're admiring Michaelaco to the leadership of the ENPEN. So, then, it's a little contraction not to "swirl us the finger". And I say again, that we recognise the contribution of the large body of conservative party to the country's historic route. The ICU story. The New Democracy is coming here, which had in its election program how to sell the exams, how to privately do one another and tells us about the ITHs. What is the situation: without pandemic, with a Memorandum, we received four hundred thirty-eight to January 1915. We delivered 30% more ITH beds without a pandemic in July 19. Before the pandemic, you had not built a single IF bed, and in fact, fifteen had been closed because of the redeployment of the staff. I mean, five hundred and fifty. And from there on, where, of course, all over the world add IF beds - we've also added some, there's much more - but not to "moving us the finger". The issues of the pandemic do not need communication poles of the type "what would happen if I hadn't been governed", said by Mr.Mitsotakis, from this Step, nor exaggerations of the style "we defeated the virus", which Mr.Mitsotakis said again. He needs consultation and he needs honesty. The last thing I want to say, with your tolerance, Mr President, is that in recent times I have seen you have a love in the "Preservers' Newspaper" and you come here and you move us over covers. I would like to ask, this cover of the 'Preservers' Newspaper' on Saturday, October 24, which said: 'Except for Maximos with a rich criminal record', for Mr. Mujos, for Mr. Levanios' partner, who was demanded by the Greek Police for fraud, for for forgery and withholding civil rights for two years, will not be found by the Couple to comment on it? That's why front page, for this admission, in one way and by Mr. Livano, won't someone be found to apologize? Here, apart from this Stepma, you had made us political and media torture for post-call partners of the government of our own, who were working 18 hours a day and graduates had and decent people were here and came along with half the criminal code on their heads, hide the news from the media, lower these issues in Parliament and create serious institutional issues. It is an insult to Parliament to sit and close with it, Mr President, in the co-workers' headquarters, behind the Minister, a man who has suspended civil rights and is accused of fraud and forgery. As much as you control the fairs and hide our voices, we'll lift them up here. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u25	The New Democracy MP, Athanasios Kavada, will now take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I want to wish many years to those who celebrate today. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the three-day debate before us has shown a lack of credibility, but also an essential proposal for the future of the Civilian Opposition Party. Mr. Tsipras adopted the divisive speech of the period 2012-2015 and it is obvious that that is where he wants to lead the country back to the past. SYRIZA acts like he never ruled. Greek citizens, however, have not suffered collective amnesia. They have memory and judgment. They remember the memorial brought by SYRIZA, the ENPIA that would abolish and eventually increased it, they remember the policy of overtaxation. The rejection of the motion of censure presented by SYRIZA is perhaps the least evil for the party of Officerial Response, because the most important and essential thing is the total rejection facing the vast majority of Greek citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament's plenary is continuing the debate today on a very important bill, which concerns thousands of citizens for the new framework for debt regulation, which actually gives the opportunity for a second chance to businesses and households. The country's public debt was a very serious problem and its management is now linked to specific financial rules and guidelines. The private debt, however, which has taken explosive proportions, threatens the economy, the property of the citizens and the banking system's ability to finance the economy, but also the sustainability of the insurance system. According to data from the Independent Public Revenue Authority, the dues of businesses and citizens to tax amount to EUR 106 billion, to the banks at EUR 92 billion and to the insurance funds at EUR 36 billion. This huge problem of overcompensation for citizens must be addressed in a sustainable way here and now, because it is a problem that cannot be postponed in the future. The draft law of the Ministry of Finance, which we are discussing today, is a transport and literally a second opportunity for citizens and businesses. It aims to protect, but also to relieve the highly indebted households, provides a way out for businesses, and protects the first residence. In particular, by electronic warning mechanism the debtor shall be informed in time of the fulfilment of his or her credit obligations, but shall also receive advisory support for the arrangements of his or her debts. This warning mechanism is first introduced and is in line with European Directive 1023/2019. If the debtor fails to meet, then we move to the second stage to the electronic out-of-court settlement mechanism. This gives natural and legal persons the opportunity to settle their debts, with a 20-year horizon, with up to two forty instalments of repayment. If neither the out-of-court settlement mechanism takes place, then we are going through the bankruptcy procedure and the debt relief for both individuals and businesses. With regard to the highly indebted Greek households, the legal framework under which bankruptcy proceedings are being adopted includes, first, the creation of a private property acquisition body that will buy the first home of the debtor and rent him to avoid eviction, and for the next twelve years a debtor will have the right to buy it again. Secondly, a state loan grant for five years, with an amount of between EUR 70 and EUR 210 per month to facilitate the repayment of the debt arrangement, and thirdly, the discharge of each household from the balance of its debts through a procedure lasting from one to a maximum of three years, depending on the value of the assets that are liquidated. In the case of firms, firstly, the possibility of reorganising the undertaking is also allowed. If this is not possible, the bankruptcy proceedings shall be initiated. After the decision to declare bankruptcy, liquidation shall be decided either on individual assets of the undertaking or on the whole within 18 months, and the managers of the undertakings shall be exempted from their debts within 3 years of the request for bankruptcy or within 2 years of the declaration of bankruptcy. Mr President, I would also like to refer to the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Finance, which allows those affected by the pandemic to be reinstated into the arrangements that may have been lost. It also enables those who were consistent until November 1st 2019, but because of coronary loss of control. The same applies to the hundred twenty instalments of debts owed by business loans and loans by natural persons guaranteed by the Greek State. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill creates a realistic framework, enabling many people and businesses to return to normality. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is moving on with a programme and methodicity to changes, giving the necessary development breath that our national economy needs. We remain consistent with our commitments to Greek citizens and legislate with political will, determination and vision for a better tomorrow. And I close, Mr President, by saying no to stagnation, we say no to criticism without proposals and move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u27	We will continue with two ladies, Ms Christidou and Ms Xinoyannakopoulou immediately thereafter, both colleagues from SYRIZA follow. Here, Mrs. Christidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the motion of censure which was completed yesterday on the bill which we are discussing under the outrageous title of 'Regulatory of debts and the provision of a second chance' was particularly revealing of both the intentions and the works of the New Democracy Government. Since July 2019, the government of new regularity was elected and “the sky has become bluer”, many legislations have come that showed its hard neoliberal face, with your good morning. Abolition of collective agreements on employment, abolition of the right to dismissal, abolition of liability for contract workers and all of this before COVID-19. So once the pandemic broke out, you found, ladies and gentlemen of the government, a splendid field of glory, with the justification of the extraordinary treaty, to conclude that it had remained standing by the government of SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras on a working right. Unpaid overtime exchanged with days of compulsory leave instead of salary, abolition of labour rights in practice by teleworking and black and undeclared work triumph. Is the financial results positive because of the sacrifices made by workers? Did they somehow help reduce unemployment? The growth of jobs? No, of course not. The numbers are demolished daily and the only ones who rejoice are those few who benefit from these measures. They're the ones with you who make the chance. The pandemic that, to confront it, you closed the world in his homes, became the way out for some of his jobs, for a "helicopoly", for long walks and so forth, excellent patents. But the support of the ESS, aid to education, was not all summer. And now that the second wave of pandemic brings us to almost get the thousands of cases a day, you're looking again for individual responsibility. You're looking for the supposed responsibility of SYRIZA government. We heard four days of historical upturns, dozens of lies about SYRIZA 2008, SYRIZA 2009, SYRIZA 2012 and 2015 stops time for you, as if the September 2015 elections never happened, as if they never happened. Again, you're looking for the individual's responsibility, but never yours. Never yours. The twenty-seven children per class in schools don't stick, the buses that don't close the doors from the world don't stick, in the courts that don't fit the world, and there they don't fit, the hospitals that don't have a doctor or a sample or a sample there stick, but slowly don't throw away some millions in intensive care units, as Mr. Petsas said a while ago. So, in this so difficult treaty, in this society that she lacks good psychology because she lacks perspective, which does not see any light in the tunnel, unless it belongs to the blue staff of excellence, at the most inappropriate time when you could find, bring the bankruptcy bill. An extremist neoliberal bill, which comes to a definitive dissolution of the small and medium-sized ones, who were electionally asking for their vote, calling them middle-class, feeding the rocked rabbits. A bill, which even if you have an annual income of up to 7,000 euros, if your loan is red, what does this bill provide for? First, you lose all the doses you've already paid. Second, the rent you'll pay for twelve years will not be deducted from the debt. If over twelve years a person has been delaying his rent for over three months, what is happening? Exhaust. Third, you still have to pay HIS. Fourthly, you're still paying insurance, compulsory for the loan. Fifth, the rent is considered a presumption of income. Eight, you can buy your house again after twelve years at its current commercial value. Seven, if you disagree your home, it's going to the auction. Eighth, if it's not sold at first, it gets back to the hammer at half its value and after all, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, after you've stayed on the road, you still owe the rest of your loan. We have heard many colleagues and colleagues from New Democracy talking about strategic mispaids. Ladies and gentlemen, these people we are talking about, they are not strategic bad-payers, they are not enemies of the banking system, they are not the ones who owe millions and their banks are giving thousands of euros. On the contrary, they are the ones who supported the banking system in previous years. They are the ones with which you have been calling 'jobs' some time ago because they have faced financial problems because of the successive crises which your own governments have caused and not the SYRIZA government. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy was in the Greek middle-class glory and majesty, and now the world will end up losing its home. For four days, we expect to hear, in addition to a few exceptions, your arguments and we do not listen to one on your part. All we hear is references to Panagiotis Lafazanis, what he said and what SYRIZA did before 2015 and, of course, to Turkish provocation and aggression. For the fact that you are now selling out the first home of people because of the crisis, which has come in a difficult financial situation, will you finally tell us something? Will you justify this law to speculators and funds? You're above every limit. You are moving on to a legislature, which has never dared any government, not even yours in the years of the Memorandum of Extortion. You proceed to a arrangement that bankers until 2019 did not even hope for in their boldest dreams. You move on to a violent social transformation, Mr President, where at the extremes there will be very poor and very rich, and the middlemen will be because of you, a species for extinction. Our reproach could have been voted down yesterday. But the reproach of the world, as it is now forming, you will see it in front of you and you will see it very soon. And if you don't see the agony of the world that you don't see, and if you don't hear the agony of the world that you don't hear, at least open your windows to hear their screams. A cries that we hear and be sure that the second time SYRIZA will be very different from the first. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u29	Until the step has been taken, I would like to inform you that, with a clipboard calculation, the debate will be concluded at about 16 00 and then the roll-call vote will begin. We have three requests for roll-call votes for 23 articles and in principle. That's 24 fields exceptionally. In order to win time, since at 18.00 Parliamentary control should be initiated and for reasons of cooperative solidarity with party rapporteurs, I propose the following: To be sent to the voting groups, with the other 246 articles and 6 amendments, so as to facilitate the rapporteurs and complete the vote as quickly as possible. In other words, in your parliamentary groups, next to every article you will note, you are in favour, against or against the white. The amendments too will be tabled in the Minutes, rather than making an article, which means that we will end at 16.00, but in essence the rapporteurs and the speakers will leave Parliament at 18.00. And I don't know if we're gonna be on time for parliamentary control. I see that Mr. Russopoulos, Mr. Tsakalotos and Mrs. Konnaka are here from the Greek Solution. They're missing from KINAL and Merra 25. Mrs. Giannakopoulou is here. I imagine you will agree, it is a practical proposal, in any case, to consult your parliamentary groups. It is 10:55, by 11: 10, answer the Bureau to prepare the documents to be sent to the Parliamentary Groups. I think it is a practical proposal that you should accept. Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure tabled by SYRIZA has been a great effort to restore publicity, which is the soul of democracy, as, unfortunately, the New Democracy Government has also chosen in this, this important bill, not to have either the necessary publicity or the in-depth debate. And we also saw in the public speech that, now, after the reproach process, a greater debate and discussion began. It has also succeeded in bringing together the problems and consequences of an institutional framework, which leads to thousands of our fellow people, natural persons for the first time in our country, households, workers, pensioners, but also small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and farmers, in bankruptcy, in liquidation of their assets and in economic disaster. There is no second chance, because this bill is the gravestone, indeed, for too many thousands of people and at the expense of the social majority. However, this three-day debate of distrust has succeeded. To show all the lies and the systematic misinformation and propaganda attempted by New Democracy over the last time. This is a friendly method which not only is Mr Stavros present, but all the ministers of the government and Mr Mitsotakis themselves are attempting to do. So, what did we see in this bill? We have also heard from the Minister and the majority Members of Parliament trying, constantly, to say, we are bringing measures, which we do not confess to being anti-social, but which we at the same time move the burden and responsibilities to others. We move to SYRIZA and to its governance, we say that Europe is obliging us and that what we are introducing is the usual throughout Europe, and of course, we are also taking responsibility for the people themselves, namely, that they are bad payers. It does not matter whether in these ten years the citizens, the Greeks, the workers and the professionals have seen their income falling, have been forced not to be consistent with their obligations and are in danger of losing their homes now. That is all, however, because we have heard even ministers - who have economic responsibilities like Mr Georgiadis - speaking for small and medium-sized 'zombies' as well. In other words, the small and medium-sized enterprises themselves are responsible for this. All that's gone down. Because, through this debate, the essential aspects of this institutional framework that you bring, Minister, have emerged. Some crystal truths have emerged, which are now clear, not only in this room, but outside. It is clear to the Greek people. The first truth is that, in rule SYRIZA up to election day, there was protection of the first residence. That's clear. Even the government website of the relevant General Secretariat, as President Alexis Tsipras said yesterday, says that there was protection of the first residence, until July this year, which you abolished. So that truth shines. This argument was rejected. He can't be heard in this room again. Also, the second passing point, in this truth, is that, on SYRIZA, no auctions were ever made in the first place. And you also make this misinformation, saying how many thousands of auctions were made, which, of course, took place for other reasons, especially for large incomes and businessmen, who had earned the money abroad and owed the public, the IKA and, of course, the banks. And you come now, here and you're trying to say that there were first home auctions in the period of our own governance. And that's broken down. It is now that the auctions for the first place are going on, and, indeed - and this is the second truth - in a period of pandemic crisis which, in many countries of Europe, forced executions have been suspended. You, not only do not recognise this, but you refuse, even now, even temporarily, to grant an institutional extension in order not to auction for the first place in Greece. That is why you also rejected our own amendments and other parties in the Opposition. Like also - and this is the third truth - the European directive did not oblige you to bring this bill, which leads to the bankruptcy of natural persons and to the liquidation of their assets. It was your choice to do that. Fourth truth. The famous middle-class, who was so propagandad by the election. Right now, you're hitting the middle class. All the agencies tell you. GEVEY tells you. There's anguish. There is great anxiety among professionals, small and medium-sized businessmen, farmers. And the fifth truth - and I close with it - is that you are completely isolated, Minister. You see, today, the picture of the Coupling. We saw the majority MPs who, from this Step, opposed SYRIZA, but, in essence, did not speak of the bill. Because they have a problem with what they're going to say in their districts now. And the truth, too, is that you will vote for it on your own, with all the opposition against, with the Greek people against, who now realizes, day after day, what happens. This bill will be your turn. It will be your turn to turn the world, to seeking another progressive social solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, too. And I'd like to invite Mr. Apostleu from SYRIZA for six minutes. Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Of course the Greek people know who is responsible for the huge debt of the private sector, the EUR 234 billion, much more than the gross domestic product. But what matters is to deal with this debt. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, what is behind the false title of the draft 'Regulatory of debts and a second chance' bill. I read in Article 75: ‘Structuring is aimed at the collective satisfaction of the debtor’s creditors, through the liquidation of the entire assets of the debtor or its individual operational components or separate operational sets thereof and, in any event, within the shortest period possible’. All the others are procedures that will lead to the satisfaction of creditors. And I repeat it 'within the shortest deadline as possible'. The Government of New Democracy, in tabling the bankruptcy law, reveals its stigma. In other words, transport, by means of summary procedures, wealth, assets, businesses, housing and future income, in the hands of the few and the strong creditors, which will lead to automatic, ruthless and ruthless redundancies of workers. The Minister argues that, with this bill, the framework for addressing the financial weakness of creditors is fundamentally reformed. He fails to say, however, that it will result in demolition of the first residence - in relation to the pre-existing status of Law 4869 of 2010 and in the wake of the protection that took place with Law 4605 of 2019 - by forcefully converting the overlaps to the poor and guilty. I repeat, no first home auction was held in the government of SYRIZA. On the other hand, the main residence - by your own regulation - will not belong to the debtor, but to the new institution, in fund. It will be possible - you say - for the debtor to rent it and then twelve years later to buy it again, if he has the money, at the price he will have at the time of the market. While, in this 12-year period, the bankrupt will have lost his entire property. And the outrageous thing is that, for the purchase price, rents paid during the 12 years are not taken into account, nor is the amount paid for the principal residence initially. It's not like leasing, as you're trying to present it. Especially with Article 79, you are leveling everything out, since any creditor can start bankruptcy proceedings against any person - trader, farmer, householder, hired, retired, entrepreneur. The road to the massive divestment and liquidation of small and medium-sized enterprises and the collapsing of redundancies is now open. It is also characteristic that any impartiality has drowned in the provisions of the law in question, since, in Article 137, the lawyer, who is a handler and ruler of the bankruptcy procedure, is now designated by the creditors themselves and not by the judge. You're talking about a second chance. What's predicted? To belong, in bankruptcy, to the share of the annual income of the poor who acquires after the bankruptcy has been declared, in so far as it exceeds reasonable living costs. As a result, the debtor loses any possibility of managing the property, acquired after bankruptcy, after bankruptcy, depriving him, in practice, of any possibility of a second chance. And I come to work, ladies and gentlemen. Because, always, they are those workers who are 'paying the marble' in the end. What's predicted? That the declaration of bankruptcy must be made on a case-by-case basis and a serious solution to all the outstanding and ongoing contracts of the debtor between them and the contracts of employment, and that compensation is not required for the workers. These forecasts are fully reversed in the current institutional framework for bankruptcy of Law 3588/2007, since there was a rule that contracts should be continued and exempted and compensation for contracts of indefinite duration was provided for. You refer to the law as a fragment to potential viable companies, legal persons and individual persons, but not to all their debts, but only to their debts to institutional creditors. Thus, the bankrupt will have a significantly limited perimeter, it will operate without the rest at the same time as private debt protection, without specific targeting, creating contradictions and gaps. In particular, this issue in the rural area, you know that, Minister, you absolutely need to come back. It is incomprehensible that today, which helps to address the food needs of the country, lead them to dissolution. In conclusion, therefore, the new bankruptcy is reflected in the hardest and outside of the social needs of your government. Your first home policy, bankruptcies and auctions clearly shows who it wants to serve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Alexander Haritsis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if something has shown this three-day debate on the motion of censure against the Minister of Finance, it is the weakness, if you wish, or the lack of political courage on the part of the Couple, to defend this piece of legislation. And this conclusion seems to me to be even more obvious today, seeing the seat of the parliamentary majority. I count three Members from the hundred and fifty-eight to be prepared to defend this bill. Why, of course, what we have heard over the past three days and at the time that we have tried to substantiate for why this bill is a bill that is gluttonous for the social majority, what we have heard once again is that it is all the fault of SYRIZA. Opposition to opposition. This was the line, unfortunately, of the government and the parliamentary majority. While we have a bill, which modifies the definition of bankruptcy to the most unfavourable, far less unfavourable, for debtors. While bankruptcy has so far been a choice made by businesses and merchants to relaunch their economic activity, we have now for the first time been led to the bankruptcy of such professionals, entrepreneurs, but now also natural persons, on the initiative of their creditors and with the possibilities of debtors intervening in this process, to be broke. You resurrect the entire property, without the first home being excluded, while the lender is entitled to the future income of the debtors, without even excluding salaries and pensions. And on the presumption of stopping payments that you enter, in its more stringent sense, you allow debtors to lead to bankruptcy of households and small businesses, if for just six months they do not serve 40% of their debts. You lead to mass divestments the first residence for the benefit of funds and banks, to disappearing small and medium-sized enterprises, speeding up their acquisition and violent merger by large business groups. And when exactly are you doing this? Worst time. When the Greek economy enters again in a period of deep recession, now, beyond SYRIZA, beyond the other political forces, all the productive bodies, all the employees' representatives tell you, point out that we are actually entering a period which may be even worse than the one we lived in ten years ago. But you choose all of them to ignore them. And let GSWE say that 81% of small and medium-sized enterprises are now at risk of being bankrupt and even absent and under fast track procedures, and while many of them have already pre-indicated their main residence so that they can gain access to bank lending that they did not have in the past few years. And they, together with the households and the small and medium-sized ones, are at risk of losing their homes. We are talking about businesses, which, after ten years of deep crisis, managed to stand up and stand up and survive. And now instead of helping them, you give them the gift shot. You are also giving workers of bankruptcy because in order not to limit the benefits of creditors at all, you are abolishing the payment of compensation from workers, as is the case at present. Remove any previous protective device for first home protection. While those who are unable to pay the loan they have received for the purchase or any other loan with a mortgage on the first place, are forced to go bankrupt. You are telling us that you are protecting vulnerable people, namely those who have an annual income of 7 000 euros. These are the vulnerable. Because you give them the opportunity to rent their homes for twelve years and then rebuild it, after this 12-year period, for their full commercial value, without taking into account these rents. Let me say this is not called protection of neither the first home nor our vulnerable fellow citizens. It is called the option to choose how they will lose their home. Are they going to lose it by auctioning or are they going to lose it by releasing its ownership to the private body, to the fund? Ladies and gentlemen of the government, I think it is quite clear now that this bill is anti-social and I am very afraid that next time we will see in front of us very difficult situations. Situations that we have never lived in our country before. Situations that we have only seen in other countries of Europe, such as Spain a few years ago. Allow me, because I do not have much time, to make a specific reference to two provisions of the bill, which I consider to be crucial. Firstly, you create a new special service to the Ministry of Finance for managing the resources of the Recovery Fund. First of all, I would like to say that, historically in our country, the money, European funds, the Ministry of Development and not the Ministry of Finance. I am amazed that the Minister for Development has agreed to pass, to transfer this management to the Ministry of Finance, which does not have the corresponding know-how in managing Community funds. But, in my opinion, we have a very dangerous development here. Firstly, because you are actually experimenting, you are creating a new structure, which is not even subject to a general special secretariat. You designate a commander of this new structure. You're talking about two hundred thousand euros each. Mostly who will receive these contracts, since what you say in the provision is 'a high prestige advisor'. You do not call it very specific about the appointment of the consultant, who will take over these two pennies to manage the funds. In our opinion, this is a very dangerous experiment, because we have no time to lose. These funds are very crucial for the development of the Greek economy in the years to come and, of course, we are very afraid that this approach, which is being undertaken with this service, is intended precisely to transfer, to grant the preparation and management of the National Recovery Plan to individuals. That is the objective you have with this service, and we believe that this is a very dangerous development. To close, I come to the famous article 268 for insurance companies. Look, the opposition has accused you from the outset of this article. You underestimated these reactions. The Scientific Committee of the House itself had to take you down for this article to make some legislative improvements, but unfortunately they do not change at all the core of this provision. This provision continues to remove all public control over arbitrary increases in insurance companies in the midst of a pandemic. Minister, the only thing you can do at the very last moment is to withdraw this provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u35	Mrs. Theophiste Perka, from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I will begin by making the same statement. We followed yesterday the racing effort by the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister of the country and all colleagues that nothing was done, because that was a policy, the abolition of the first residence, of SYRIZA. So, for the sake of speaking, I will challenge you and say, let's say that's the way it is. Do you agree? Is this an irreversible policy, or is it a virtuous policy, or is it a forced policy, which must certainly be done? You should come here, with these arguments, to raise the level of Parliament's debate. All you have to do is lie, mock people and deceive Parliament. That's the point. After all, you are the ones - there is a policy behind all that - which you believe in self-regulation of the market. This ideology means that every public policy, which acts on pre-school allowances, the protection of first home, is acting damagingly on this balance of the market. Come and tell us, we'll have a confrontation. Your Prime Minister was free to say that 'Equality is utopia'. Say the same thing and come and talk. But you expected the world wouldn't understand it. You expected that your loved media would silence it, as it really did, but I really ask you, the man who will lose his home, the man who will be given a second chance to give it to a private body, who will determine the terms, pay twelve years of rent and then buy it at his commercial value, will not count either the rent or the amount of the loan that he had already paid. That in small and medium-sized enterprises we will have massive bankruptcies, quick liquidation, that is what the operators say. Aren't people gonna understand that? Listen a little. It is a fact that this old-fashioned theory of neoliberalism, which has failed both as an economic theory and as a political doctrine, runs all the bills and I will mention a few things to see if you recognize your policies. Mass privatisations, state disinvestment by critical bodies, and I am referring to DEPA, DEDDIE, IPTOE. It loses the state and control of transport networks. All this has been done in public money. Protection of banks and major players, immunitys, debt write-offs, air-saving fine loans with no guarantees, six major companies 50% of loans. That's what you're doing. That's what liberalism says. You're loyal. Withdrawal of the public from its traditional role, i.e. control, so that there is no obstacle to increasing the profits of businesses. We have dismantled environmental inspectors, deterioration, private supervision in public works, EIA and so on. Of course, the dissolution of labour relations and the expansion of poverty, the abolition of protection measures, collective agreements, unpaid overtime, a reduction in fines and so on. But that is the argument you have heard and used most, is that there is no history. There's a white page. All in the country started in 2015. He dared to say yesterday: 'The pillow' is mine'. Now the story will start in July 2019 in the country. This is how the most extreme neoliberalism works. This country was not governed by you, it did not have EUR 320 billion. debt, we didn't come here and find her with two memos, one that failed after the other. You were talking to us about growth. Seriously, Mr. Stakoura? Who took the country off? He said: 'We have confidence in the markets and we also have low interest rates'. Really? What's that for? Not in debt regulation? Not on the pillow, which isn't yours? History can't be rewrited. It's her. We are constantly listening to this argument. Of course, another characteristic is the deficit in democracy, the failure to function the institutions of the rule of law. We don't have a corruption prosecutor so he won't clear up this construction. This construction, which everywhere is scandalous, and here it is a craftsman. Let me say the other one. The media, neither a reason nor a "Rao". That's not even what we heard. ‘Lagos’ is the Poppa. That's not it either. But we heard that nothing happened, it doesn't really affect our lives. Of course, you wonder what democracy this is, without control and without information. It can't work. Of course, the crisis as an opportunity with all these au thorities, market restructuring and so on, and all that we all know well. There is a very wicked provision and it is about the investment of the Greek, which you have done badly, anyway. They have taken an empty plot without topographics, we have reached one point, you will do so in a week and you will, since then, make amendments and interventions. I'm not going to comment on the previous ones. Do you know what you're legislating, Minister? Who gave you this provision? Now listen. Repeat in 2011 the right to surface, which the '45 Urban Code' had abolished, because a strange thing. When you take the plot after years, it's not a plot. It's a property acquisition vehicle with no price. What are you doing with this amendment? You extend the right and give the right to distribution. What does it actually mean? That the investor acquires ownership of part of the land without any price. But this also intervenes in the competitive process, because if it had been envisaged first, it could have been the price and, secondly, it has no legal certainty. Anyone involved in the competitive process can say: I, if I knew that, would have given a better offer. We've told you too many times. There is no investment, no economic recovery and, in no case, society is prosperous. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u37	Thank you. From the Change Movement, Mrs. Konstantina Giannakopoulou has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, following the three-day debate on the motion of censure against the Minister of Finance, we are returning to the debate which had been suspended on the bill entitled 'Second opportunity'. Nowadays a lot has been heard about the bill, although the many speeches have also been on other issues or on a general criticism of the government, which is perfectly logical, from the fact that the debate has, objectively speaking, taken place. After all, to be honest, no one would understand, ladies and gentlemen, why Mr Tsipras finally tabled a motion of censure against a single minister and not against the government as a whole. I am sorry, but despite what has finally been said, I have not been convinced at all that this bill gives a second chance. We continue to see nowhere, really, second chance, Minister. The truth is that this bill, in essence, is a bill of zero opportunity, a gift to households, a tombstone for natural persons, and, of course, a gift to banks and companies that are involved in debts. We are living in a period of crisis, uncertainty in the economy and the market. Small and medium-sized enterprises, professionals, are the major victims of developments in our economy and have been in an extremely unfavourable position, of course, because of the coronary. Many - and this is the reality - went bankrupt simply there was no formal confirmation, that is the bitter reality. At this juncture, which is even more difficult for business activity and intensifies fear in the face of unemployment, the government, instead of supporting the market and entrepreneurship, chooses to strengthen the few and strong, thus leading law-abidingly to laundry. Instead of moving procedures to ensure social cohesion, you choose to marginalise and broaden social inequalities. In short, we are talking about a bill, which has the title of the second chance, but it is essentially oriented, and that will bring about - not to have deceitful - mass bankruptcys, offering too many privileges to creditors. How can one possibly have a second chance, a professional when in his bankruptcy incomes are included, which are created after bankruptcy. Rather, the second opportunity for the creditors to be satisfied is that, with Article 92, income above the inconsistent limit, as you have had to amend and change after the intense pressure we have received from the Change Movement, but also from all the actors why we must not forget - that is something that will always follow you, Mr Staikora - that in the original draft law income, which was only the EUR 540 and then you tell us yesterday, we were trying to convince us that you and the Prime Minister - supposedly - were cut off for the small and medium-sized ones and the weak ones. We speak with evidence, not with slogans and Stacura. Banks will now be able to request bankruptcy of employees, pensioners and unemployed, without special social criteria, without special provisions for vulnerable groups, which have health or age criteria and now, on the basis of Article 77, a debtor will go bankrupt if, for a period of six months, he does not pay 40% of the outstanding public debt to social security institutions and banks. With the present bill, then, you are unwittingly benefiting banks and, of course, reintroduce collector companies to the game. So we wonder why it is not reasonable to think that this bill aims to reduce the number of small and micro-enterprises and the survival of the colossals, devising the PASOK structure with Law 3869. Because it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that this bill conflicts with three different concepts. There is the perception of the New Democracy, which yes has passed the Katseli Act, but in the course of which you altered him with the Hatzidakis Act, and of course now, in order to atone for the bill an abortion, which you bring, you are trying to devour the Katseli law, which you signed. That's the reality. There is, of course, also the concept of SYRIZA that did not vote for the Act Katseli that changed it and eventually abolished it in 2019, so that we do not forget that. Of course, there is also the third perception that the PASOK Members, who have voted for the Katselis Act, supported him over the years and honour him today by signing the amendment tabled by the Change Movement for the effective protection of the first residence. Of course - I am closing with that, Mr President - no one refuses that there are the strategic malicious payers who need to be identified and punished exemplarily. But that does not mean that the really weak and vulnerable borrowers, those who protected and found shelter in the middle of a memorial under the legal framework of the Katseli Act cannot be targeted. I close with this, Minister, while admitting that Mr.4605, who has received from the SYRIZA, failed, is currently actually reintroducing something similar with much stricter criteria. How, then, are you telling us that now with this draft law, there will be first home protection, since this draft law turns the owners into tenants of their homes for twelve years, with the right to rebuild their property at the current commercial value and without deducting the rents paid in previous years. There is a logic in this, ladies and gentlemen, so that we can finally understand it. The country is at a very critical point, it is given a graceful shot, it is intensified rather than limited, the protection of first homes and the provision of a second chance to businesses is a priority for us, which unfortunately is not a priority for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Papaliou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's debate on the SYRIZA's motion for distrust, which is linked to the bill, which is being discussed today, has been revealing the real content of it, despite the attempt you are making, ladies and gentlemen, by falsehood, distortions and so forth, to hide the truth. However, the hideout of the truth, which is being attempted by the systemic media, has an end date, and that is the very least time that the citizens - who are concerned with this bill - will experience its consequences. The title of the bill, ladies and gentlemen, is false, since it refers to the so-called second opportunity, provided to bankrupt legal and natural persons now. This is not only provided, but a set of regulations, which leads in the opposite direction, is laid down in the bill. In fact, it is a matter of giving credit to debtors and giving opportunity to banks and funds to complete the conditions for their sovereignty in the economy and society. The content of the draft law does not correspond to the objectives of bankruptcy law, which is the prevention of bankruptcy, the rescue of the borrower and the resolution of the debtor company, and if there is no possibility of liquidating its assets to the collective satisfaction of the creditors. On the other hand, the draft law prioritises the bankruptcy and the liquidation of the assets of households and businesses in order to satisfy the creditors within the shortest possible time limit. In this case, for example, the current draft law, the new bankruptcy code will not only concern those who have a commercial status, as to date, since the possibility of bankruptcy is now being extended to natural persons. This will eliminate financially, except for small and medium-sized enterprises and professionals and workers. A presumption of termination of payments is introduced to ensure that a debtor fails, where he fails to discharge his due obligations to the public, social security institutions or credit institutions, at least 40% of his total outstanding liabilities to the relevant institution for a period of at least six months, provided that his unpaid obligation exceeds EUR 30 000. On the basis of this criterion, in the near future, there will be decisions on massive declarations of bankruptcy by the relevant courts, which will result, on the one hand, in the acceleration of the acquisitions and mergers and the rescheduling of the country's business map for the benefit of large business groups and the detriment of small and medium-sized companies and, on the other, in the massive divestments of the main debtors or losses to the benefit of banks and funds. The principal residence of the debtor is also part of the bankruptcy. The property passes to the private property acquisition and renegotiation agency and the debtor may remain in it by paying rent for 12 years. If he delays the payment of more than three rents, then he gets evicted. At the same time, bankruptcy is also included in the part of the future year's income acquired by the debtor after the bankruptcy has been declared, in so far as this exceeds reasonable costs of its survival. Thus, the debtor is extinguished, losing all management facilities, even the income he acquires after bankruptcy. The implementation of the draft bankruptcy code ceases to protect any framework in force, the institutional and legal assurance of the first residence, which had already ceased to exist since July 2020 under the responsibility of the New Democracy. Since I do not have time, I would just like to make one comment on the labour dimension of bankruptcy and to close down. It is foreseen that the declaration of bankruptcy is made by a self-evident and vague solution to all the outstanding and ongoing contracts of the debtor between them and the contracts of employment for which compensation is not required to be paid to the employees. In other words, every concept of labour law, social justice, since workers become partners with employers in the company's losses, is being violated. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying this. This development, with the deposit and discussion of this bill and its resolution, apparently, had been announced politically by Adoi Georgiadis, who has said that the protection of the main residence is damaging to the economy. You have then made a commitment to lenders that you will abolish this protection and, indeed, you have done so. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is introduced after a long time, due to bankruptcy and monumental policies, a crisis, but also in the midst of health and its resulting new economic crisis. In other words, while the economy, small and medium-sized enterprises, households and workers, need support and support to resuscitate and cope with the new major difficulties, through their bill you are able to achieve another blow, in a way that brings about the total rapprochement of their private property. The bill reflects the classic, in this case, the bank, the mark of its purpose and the subsequent policy of the New Democracy. The problem of private debt, overcompensation of enterprises and households is dealt with exclusively in the view of banks and funds, without taking into account the minimum social criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u41	Before Mr. Tryphonos Alexiadis goes to Step, and in order to settle the step, I should like to make a statement to this House. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of the Ministers", as in force, on 22-10-2020, a criminal case for the former Deputy Minister of Justice Dimitrios Papagelopoulos and a criminal case for the former Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Konstantinos Gavroglou. Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President, although I do not know whether I should start my speech without a Minister or a Deputy Minister of Government. In any case, I will start as if Mr Stavuras were here and I will tell him not to worry about the absence of Members of the New Democracy today and other government officials. Don't worry and don't think it's from the three-day fatigue. The New Democracy officials have understood the political success of SYRIZA, the fact that we have managed these days and have highlighted the unscrupulous aspects of the Banking Code in many media. They have understood what is coming and as in the past there were laws such as the Katseli Law or the Pepponi Law on ASEP and other laws, which remained in history on the basis of the ministers who recommended them. So now New Democracy officials, the MPs, understand the heavy political burden that they raise and drink the whole glass at night with the roll-call vote. Because the next time, with what will follow if the law is implemented - because we will be here together with movements and citizens and society to prevent them from being implemented - they will understand what is going to be done and what the cost will be. Because in every county, the citizen will understand, who will lose his home, his property, where he will go to protest now. Which Parliamentary Office. It's simple. If you manage with this bill to solve a huge problem of 234 billion, which you have created, in most of its percentage, New Democracy - PASOK, PASOK - New Democracy, if you manage and solve it, we will certainly have no place to hide and we will say yes, we were wrong and the Government of New Democracy succeeded and solved. But the first answer is the absence of New Democracy MPs and ministers today from the Chamber, who understand what comes and the second argument is exactly what we have discussed. We come to what has been heard. I have a permanent hope that by making arguments I will hear a counter-project or hear a clue. Unfortunately, although we have discussed this in the Committee on Economic Affairs, even though we have put it in plenary in the debate that has taken place, there is no answer. So I ask you, which we have also asked in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. When SYRIZA took over power in 2015, was there institutionalised first home protection? I told you in committee too. You did not hear it, but thankfully came to plenary on 22 October and said it clearly, that the protection of first residence had expired 31-12-2014. For you left it silently, without renewing the time and leaving a situation, seeing the developments that were coming. So where's your account based? To abolishing first home protection and everything else? Now I come to the question to the JRC, the Mera, the KINAL, who blame us for what we did. We ask them, have there been a case of auctioning, confiscation, extermination of first-local people? Not the great executive who had the villa of five hundred squares with the pool, who well did and were auctioned to satisfy the needs of workers or other businesses. Not this one. A first-local language is a case that will come here as an argument for its address, as was Alexis Tsipras asked yesterday? You do not dare to bring such an example, because you do not dare answer the question. Is it confirmed or not now that it was right that our choice in 2015 to make the difficult compromise and give the difficult battle, but to take things a step further and not let them evolve as they are now evolving with the Government of New Democracy? A question that will torment you next time, when we build the social political front with social productive bodies, with citizens, with society, to deal with the consequences of this and other bills, and you will still look at where SYRIZA is responsible. The issue of bankruptcy, the issue of private debt management, is the most privileged comparison of what SYRIZA has received, what New Democracy has done now, because, however you are shouting, the world cannot forget that we made the regulation of the hundreds of instalments in spring 2015, we made the Stathakis Act, which amended the Katseli Law, we created the extrajudicial mechanism, in right sense, of course with problems in its implementation, which we have explained why, we made Law No.4605, the Flamburaris Act, for the first time, enclosed business loans, which, until then, did not have such protection, for the first time, provided public housing loan instalments, for the first time, we incorporated loans of Treasury and Loan and much more, which we have achieved and done in this difficult problem. But because I hear you these days and you're making a review of it - and your friendly journalists and you're drowning in a spoon of water - in SYRIZA for the auctions. First of all, let me ask: will there be an amendment, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to the government? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like to have the tolerance you have shown to the previous speakers, nothing more. Will there be a provision today that abolishes the auctions? That's what I get. Because you are criticising us, even though we did twenty-five thousand auctions in four years, and you did twenty thousand in a year and a half. But in your criticism, I understand that you're going to abolish auctions? I was expecting Mr Pierrakakis yesterday to tell us here about digital transformation and so on, to tell us that he will bring about the provision that will abolish electronic auctions, a very correct step in relation to the old process, where we set up auctions with the so-called coronary and another set of corrupt situations, we have made very good progress in electronic auctioning, which, of course, accelerated things, as things and so-called electronic seizures, for which you also accuse SYRIZA, who had been legislated before SYRIZA came to power. What did SYRIZA do? Where an IRS sent a confiscation paper to twenty banking institutions, it now sends an e-mail and beyond it is done automatically. And that's why you blame us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u43	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u44	I shall conclude with two points, Mr President. I would like to refer to the amendment and ask you, even now, before its vote, to see it again, in the amendment, which you have tabled on the contribution of solidarity, with which the great executives and pharmaceutical companies, the great executives of banks, multinationals, insurance companies, stock exchanges, of course will benefit. Wage 5,357, benefits 292 a month. Wage 17,857, benefits 1,439 a month. This is the benefit you give to big incomes, because you only give it to the private sector. So, question...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u45	Close, Mr. Alexiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u46	I'm closing, Mr. President. Question: Medical staff in public hospitals, teachers, nurses, teachers, teachers, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u47	Don't open any more issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u48	Officers, you'll bring in a provision like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u49	You've exceeded the tolerance you've asked for.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u50	Mr. President, I'm closing with a proposal...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u51	I heard that four - five times. Well, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u52	Will you bring a provision that reduces the tax burden to them too? If you ask for proposals, only one phrase. Proposals, yes, what the agencies are asking for. Will you bring in a special irresponsible professional account, will you bring in a debt payment to the municipality, transferring real estate, as the institutional framework already exists and not implemented? That is all for now and you know that today you are opening up a big fund, which will have too many episodes. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u53	Please, after the Step is ready, call SYRIZA MEP Mr. Ioannis Sarakiotis for six minutes. Here, Mr Sarakiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. "Don't fear" said an ancient saying, that is to say, fear the deceit, to reverse what he addressed to SYRIZA at the closure of his speech Thursday, the Minister of Finance Mr. Stagioras. The impulse and the manipulation were revealed. They appeared through the tabling of a bill which directly threatens the social fabric of our country, by means of the obscurity of the work of the Greeks, with Mr Mitsotakis and the officials of the New Democracy trying to vote in favour of these provisions, as if it were a minor issue, through the overhaul of the media-friendly, but also of the parallel crises that we are experiencing, the health crisis, the escalation of the pandemic, with a daily record of incidents and the escalation in Greek-Turkish relations. This framework offers the right protection environment from the memory and anger of the people who will lose their property from your signature. In this crime, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we will not be accomplices. You've been up on this Step in the past few days, and you've exhausted your inventivity, trying to discover some positive aspects of an abortion bill. In other words, to justify that, in the middle of a pandemic, the status of first home protection is fully abolished and, for the first time, you are giving the banks the opportunity to go bankrupt, even natural persons. You are assimilating the farmer, the unemployed, the retired person, the civil servant, to an S.A., who took a business risk. With these policies you are proposing, Minister, we will eventually be looking at Mr Thompsen and Mrs Velkoulescu. They at least had the courage to recognise their devastating mistakes and even to apologise to the Greek people. You, the memorial tone of the bills of the last decade, want to present it to us as an innovation and have the term of innovation as such, when you are presenting the simplification of the procedures of bankruptcy and the liquidation of the property of our fellow citizens and presenting, as indicated in the official document of the analysis of the bill by the Ministry of Finance, as innovation, but also as listen to - listen, as support, write, of the vulnerable social groups - what? - the creation of a private property acquisition and renegotiation body, which will enable the debtor to remain in his real estate, with a lease, after his or her entire property has been liquidated and has lost ownership of his or her first residence. In fact, I admire how innovative you are, but also how merciful you are, you give the opportunity to a citizen who has been struggling for years, who has beaten, bought a first residence, and after the bank is forced into bankruptcy now, he loses all his property, loses the ownership of his home, but you are merciful and you don't throw him on the street, but you give him the opportunity to rent his own house. Of course, apart from how innovative you are, we see how big you are. We're learning other things from the Bankruptcy Code you filed. We have learned that according to the New Democracy, vulnerable and therefore able to enjoy the privileges mentioned above, it is someone who lives at EUR 583 per month and below. So whoever makes 600, 650, 700 euros to you goes through luxury and deafening life and legislate all the above, in the middle of applause, and that's the scariest, most dangerous one. Neither a reservation nor a reflection. Only a New Democracy colleague has listened to a crisis of sincerity to say that you are actually voting for the complete lifting of the protection of first residence. We knew this, but unfortunately we are again confirming that you once again see the crisis as an opportunity to delete EUR hundreds of millions of loans to bankers of your businessmen, as an opportunity to pass on provisions such as the one contained in Mr Georgiadis' Minister of Development's bill on the unilateral increase of insurance premiums from insurance companies and other such provisions. Of course, the bankruptcy code is the tip of the iceberg. It is another episode of government analgesia and full indifference, but also lack of contact, with the reality that it is currently happening in the Greek society with the new economic crisis, which has erupted the consequent job insecurity, which has been exacerbated by the loss of thousands of jobs, with thousands of paddocks in small and medium-sized enterprises and the recession touching almost double digit. Of course, not everyone is affected by this situation, as you support them and the media owners and the shipowners who write off the debts. Surely, according to the president of GATT, the small and medium-sized businessmen, who are 81% now exposed to the bankruptcy scenario by the banks, are, according to the President of GATT. Indeed, it is worth wondering how the first party throughout the European Union in loans to banks would come and suggest this specific draft law and come to our minds and the resolution plan proposed by Mr Mitsotakis, according to which your loans would be repaid to sixty-seven, sixty-eight years, if they did not increase every year. Of course, in 2019, they increased by 30 million euros. You could not achieve this objective either. We have heard - and Mr Alexiadis has said before - constantly say about the twenty-five thousand auctions, which took place on SYRIZA, forgetting that they have been in four and a half years. And forgetting that there have been twenty thousand in fifteen to sixteen months of New Democracy rule. Will someone really comment on the forty-two thousand five hundred auctions in 2008 alone? Will someone comment on the fifty-two thousand auctions in 2009? Will a New Democracy executive comment on twenty-six thousand auctions in 2012? These figures are auctions where banks and individuals were led, because of your policies, due to the loss of 25% of GDP and the memos you brought to the country. The second wave of pandemic is here, unfortunately you are taking fragmentary measures, relief measures and not support measures. You don't want to, obviously, you can't get that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u55	We continue to speak for six minutes, Mrs Athanasia Anagnostopoulou. Here you are, Mrs Readstopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking for too little while I spoke in the procedure of the motion of censure towards the Minister of Finance, to highlight just one thing. We are at a historic turning point and should be recorded in all manners in the Minutes of the House. This historic turning point is that while we are, as we all admit in this Chamber, but society itself knows it, in a very difficult phase with three health, economic, national crises, and while we have come out of a major crisis, the New Democracy Government chooses to make the most of the lives of its citizens, because that is what this is about. I want that to stay in the Minutes so we know tomorrow what we're talking about and people know what we're talking about. There's been a lot of noise these days. What really makes it seem is that the government is lying in the most unregulated way, even the Prime Minister himself, which is absolutely self-proof. We are not talking about society, that is, when the Prime Minister comes out of this Step and says that "we made the pillow," something is wrong. Something's not right in this place. Secondly, when he says, you handed us a few IFs, the fewer there were, and we increased them, something is wrong. When announcing in the most festive way the free mastography, which the ministers for doctors, Xanthos and Paulakis have legislated since 2018, there is something wrong. We therefore have to use the Step of the House, the Step of democracy, to persevere with the same things. We are therefore discussing Thursday, which was interrupted, but also in the days when the motion of censure was proposed, the same thing about the bankruptcy code. Is he important? Do we have to stand? Of course he's very important. Firstly, for the first time in this country - and not just - natural persons are bankrupt. Minister, you are obliged to explain whether there is a risk to it. You're saying that we relieve him of his debts, of his debts, and then you give him a second chance. I would like to ask all of you, who say lightly the heart, in a country which is at risk of poverty in a large proportion of its population, where the pandemic has devastated that it had stood up, can you say to a person as a natural person, but also to a small and medium-sized enterprise, that I have been putting your life in parentheses for three years? Then, with what tools will this man return to life and as businessman? There are a lot of problems that this bankruptcy code poses, but I am condensing them on one thing, instead of the state being more for the weak, suddenly reversed, the state is more for the few. This reversal has a profound impact on social cohesion, on how this society has been formulated historically, based on society, based on democracy historically in that country. The small and medium-sized enterprises and these businesses are now divesting with the greatest comfort, saying that, okay then - in eternal life? I don't know - they'll be able to recover. Instead of having debt restructuring at this stage, then, a major restructuring, we go to liquidation of people's property. I think and say this to be recorded, that you are bowling in society, that is intimidating it, that is, intimidation which is part of a logic that has a start, a middle and a end of ideological and politics, which is a bowling in society. I, Minister, please, since all the opposition is against you, all the actors are against you, withdraw this law because it will be a gravestone for this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u57	We thank Mrs Anagnostopoulou for giving time to the other colleagues. To prepare the Step and call SYRIZA MP, Mrs. Gara Anastasia, to speak for six minutes. Here you go, Mrs. Gara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, thank you for wishing the holidays and the holidays for many years. Ladies and gentlemen, two weeks we have been discussing the criminal, anti-social, in our view, draft bankruptcy code, which will divest the property and forcefully impoverish the majority of citizens in our country. The content of the bill, of course, we are discussing it among ourselves, and indeed, on the one hand, and, above all, counter-population, because we have not heard any particular arguments for supporting and analysing this'summary', as you say in a bill. Every day I watch the media very intensively, in all their forms and honestly, watching them, I feel happy. I believe that I live in a country which has no particular problems, because today the media, as a whole, has a virtual reality, which unfortunately has nothing to do with the harsh reality experienced by most of our fellow citizens. In the public sphere, therefore, there is a veil of redeemed silence. The bankruptcy code, like other important issues that touch the whole society, are completely absent or presented with asynchronous lies, serving the government propaganda unambiguously. Unfortunately, in this context, and I say, unfortunately, the public media have also entered, the ERT, which New Democracy has carried under the control of the Prime Minister and the Council of State, a few days ago the bell was ringing for the unconstitutionalism of these provisions, while the National Broadcasting Council has already taken the pencils down. We expect him to take over and serve his role. So in an ERT, where Mr Mitsotakis chose to deceive and turn it into a partisan shop, the news hides or passes into finest pluralism and opposition, there is no one voice, one single reason, the government. The ERT, which we all appreciate, is the ERT in which we all have confidence, regrettably loses its information status and turns into a family shop for the New Democracy parties. Likewise, deforestation, deforestation exists both on ERT3 and on regional radios. These instruments, which in difficult times supported society, supported remote areas, supported and updated the atrocious societies. At the same time, ERT is awarded accurately to individuals, for work and for productions which can be carried out by broadcasting itself. Personal, experience, possibilities exist and yet there are different options. Public money was wasted in order to maintain the triangle of interlocutory. You see, ladies and gentlemen, for the Pecha lists, for direct assignments, there is money, for bankers in large groups, thousands of poster, there is money, but for the people there are restrictions, austerity, poverty and more direct seizures. But is this the precise interest of the media government? Of course not. Through tricks such as the Pecha lists, tax exemptions, facilitations and ERT depreciation and its control, you manage to buy out the silence, but also to memorize control of power, and that is the danger to our democracy. Since you have fainted or controlled the media, since they do not control you, they do not publicly criticise you, they do not publish scandals, your criminal policies, they do not even discuss them, they do not publish the food you have set up, you have a free field to act. You have the freedom, without public criticism, to implement your extreme anti-grass programme, a program for the dismantling of the Greek economy, to the detriment of the small, the workers, the middle-class entrepreneurs, who you have already deceived and media control is a key issue, it is a key issue of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the bankruptcy code of New Democracy is a bankruptcy scroller for society, which you cynically call'second chance'. Who's that for? Is it just for the banks? The cynical one, however, is that you, the country's biggest strategic badges, bring a law of poverty, in the midst of pandemic, with the market and wages to collapse, the health crisis to rob, with thousands of jobs being lost, with the turnover of businesses falling under half, with focusing and tourism being dissolved and all of them to accumulate debts. 81% of small and medium-sized enterprises, which you would support, are in bankruptcy with your choices, but you are bringing the end of small and medium-sized enterprises. In this context, then, the unfavourable landscape, instead of supporting citizens, instead of applying a safety net, instead of taking measures to contain the crisis, you are legislating for the bankruptcy and the snatching of citizens' property. Payment inhibitors for a semester are not a solution, simply time travels costs. The middle class, which believed your election lies, will be in front of immediate seizures, and the criminalization of late payments, another political deception of the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in Greece the bankruptcy of individuals is established, the bankruptcy of natural persons. A farmer, a hired man, any natural person, will be bankrupt, will be led to an economic deadlock, such as a business, without a second chance. The new bankruptcy code does not provide any protection, nor does the main residence. I think the bill has been analysed and I will not expand. However, here today we are not talking about the welfare or protection of the principal residence of debtors, but about a safe driver, to lose his home. However, there is a problem in the outermost regions, and that is where special care would be needed, because many farmers, too many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, are at risk of being bankrupt, they will lose their land, they will lose their homes and they will be removed from the remote areas. You're going to have a night out of our district. Ladies and gentlemen, the bankruptcy code is a bankrupt for society. It is part of a comprehensive plan of destructive policy, which restores monumental austerity policies with your own and only choice. I conclude with one sentence: once you think this law is a salutary one, I propose that it should be implemented from the home of the New Democracy, that direct confiscations be made to Mr Mitsotakis for the unpaid loans of the 'KERYKA', but also for the unpaid loans of the New Democracy, which are now more than 300 million. That's where we'll see confiscations?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u59	I invite the Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of SYRIZA, Dimitris Vitsa, to whom I personally wish many years for his nominal festivities, as well as all the celebrities and celebrities, for today's St. Dimitrios.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President, as well as the Members present, but also the Members and Ministers who have called me since the morning and wished me. You understand, when it's your holiday day, you have to keep the tone down. All over Europe, at the moment we've been talking about in the last few days, there's a campaign in the broadcasting media, in the TV in particular, where there's a space - in fact it's public urinals, but you know like what a man comes in - where the dawn shows a lady coming out of public urinals with a bag, to go to work and motto of this campaign is: everyone deserves a decent roof. In Greece you will not see this unless you succeed in "EURO NEWS", which sometimes puts it. This is an issue which, in a country that has invested too much in private homes, in private housing, in homes, in other words, that has come to have sayings in relation to life, that is, "if you don't build a house, you don't know what life is going to say", we are discussing today how it is possible for the other person to lose his home. Of course, Mr Minister, we have a great deal left of the three-day debate. In other words, I would like to tell you one: Mr. Metarakis, but then Mr. Prime Minister, said 'how nice to get along with immigration'. But Mr. Mitarakis forgot to tell us what is going on with the approximately 6.5 million he gives to advise and monitor the work of a construction company of Mr. Mytilinaios in the three centres, while the Ministry has its own services. He forgot to tell us what is going on with the 1.2 million question asked by Mr Kamine from the Change Movement and given to NGOs, which was set up in September by the head of the New Democracy municipality party in Agios Dimitrios. Immediately he took 1.2 million, but said a terrible thing: 'We have returned to the pre-crisis situation, we have seventeen thousand on the islands'. Because my memory is not cheating on me, something less than seventeen thousand on the islands we had in June 2019. The Prime Minister repeated that. That is, then, in his opinion in the SYRIZA government, there was no crisis and we are having such discussions. What do I want, now, to say with that? Lots of lies, lots of inaccuracies, lots of excesses. He, of course, took off all of this, was Mr Mitsotakis himself, the current Prime Minister of the country, when he said that 'the existing reserve is, in fact, his creation', because he borrows and complements it, from what I understand - to be clear - and he found it all well burned and he stayed himself alone in front of the whole society. Alone? No, of course, the ministers of the New Democracy, of course, too. Minister, please correct me if I'm wrong. Have hundreds of thousands of jobs been lost while the New Democracy is in the government? The second quarter of 2020 ended with a recession of 15.2%, but also a record of deflation of 2.3% due to insufficient measures at present? Is 2020 73% less beneficiaries of the social dividend than 2019 and 75% less money? The minimum wage has been increased over New Democracy and we haven't gotten it? The general industrial production index is down already before the pandemic and many other things. So to these small and medium-sized enterprises that have suffered a 50% reduction in turnover, which eight out of ten companies have rapidly reduced their liquidity, which has fallen forty units the economic climate index has fallen, so you tell them that you will liquidate the need and the property, but you will also take them home. Do you appreciate, Minister, how do you give a second chance? They're lying, but your estimates are the same, they have the same value as those with the recession rate that you've done before. Do you want me to remind you? On 15 March, 'in Greece, we shall remain at a positive rate of economic growth'. On 26 March you are making an assessment - in Europe you say - but 'the picture for Greece is at a softer rate than 1 to 2.3'. Anyway, let me not say it - these are the work of Tsakalotus and Achioglou and not mine - in the budget you are talking about a recession of 8.2 and the budget office appreciates 8.5 to 9.4. Why is assessments a serious thing? It's very serious and you know it. Because based on the estimates, you're taking measures. But you continue in the same pattern and treat the natural person as an economic unit I'm coming to ask and I'll be closed, Mr. President. Mr. Starura, how old are you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u61	Forty-seven.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u62	I'm telling you, because you're a very good example. What do I mean? As far as I know, you don't have credit obligations. You have a high, earthly property and you do well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u63	Where does that come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u64	In your "subjects".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u65	Is she tall?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u66	For me, that I don't have, it's high. I don't blame you because you have homes, plots and plots. That's not bad. Now, we're taking a forty-seven-year-old congressman - that's what I want to say - who in 2008 or 2009 had taken a housing loan and took 2,000 euros. I mean, he could kind of serve it. So he comes in 2011, he loses his job or his salary - let's say he's a military officer - he falls to EUR 1,200 and can't serve this loan. Stop, serve it, so his family can live. That's what I'm talking about at his residence. You tell me that by this law, he will now live...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u67	Wait a minute, let me say what I want. I say, therefore, that you are telling me that this man will live from now on, once he is completed, with the EUR 620 and even more so that his debts are eradicated and his descendants will be able to inherit, accept a legacy. Excuse me, what legacy will they accept?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u68	Today, what's going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u69	Today there are two protections of the first residence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u70	Who are these?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u71	It's two, I'll tell you. The existing law with its paratrophies, which reaches up to you and the "GEFYRA" programme and legal protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u72	We'll have a conversation, and after Mr. Buras leaves, I'll listen to you. What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u73	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u74	It can't be in the GEOGRAPHY programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u75	Worse. What are you telling me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u76	Let Mr. Vits finish and you'll take the floor, explain it to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u77	I'm saying these terms, which you put on. The government, I mean. I, you see, I'm not saying 'Staras only', but do you express them what to do now? Besides, you are a capable expression of the neoliberal model.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u78	I'm telling you, can you live? You can't, Mr. Stakoura. When I say that "you are a capable expressor of the neoliberal model", you have the following problem and I will close with it. Neoliberalism makes a great promise: "We will have a hard time, but when we have growth, there will be a proportionate redistribution of growth." We say: To have growth, we must first and foremost strengthen society's base, namely wages and small and medium-sized incomes as a basis for growth and, of course, there must be a reverse redistribution of growth. But today, the big problem you know, what is it, Mr. Stakoura? Whatever I say, no matter what you say, we don't have growth, we have a pandemic down there. Previously, through the ‘management usage’ of the Governments of the New Democracy and PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u79	"The New Democracy and the PASOK," I said, before 2010. From 2010 to 2015...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u80	Because you're making it difficult for me, Mr. Vitsa, please, to speak to colleagues, not just to the Minister. So he's forced to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u81	So your account is suffering from everywhere. My problem is not if you have your account, because when the Greek society understands it, it will appreciate it and take its corrective measures My problem is that your account makes society suffer. Because, on a personal level you may not be analgesic, and I cannot imagine being analgesic, you love ordinary animals, etc. The result of your policy, however we do, is awkward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u82	Please get the Step ready and call the Member of the New Democracy, Mrs. Silina Skondra. Mrs. Skondra has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vitsa, I will reply to what you said before. Indeed, we will be judged by society, as you too did, by others you have done. So, why are you asking our Minister what he's doing today? What have you been doing for four and a half years? Since it was as simple and easy, why didn't you erase all these debts, as you were feeding? I will reply to something else, because I really hear that many SYRIZA colleagues have been using it for the New Democracy loans. I have to tell you if you don't know that the New Democracy loans have been legally taken. As I can also tell you, the loans of the New Democracy are being repaid. So last three days we had the opportunity to reveal the triumph that beats SYRIZA and the movements of micro-party tactics and opportunism. It was made perfectly understandable to everyone that we have a Civic Anti-Civilization dangerous, demagogic, hugging, that he thinks he can erase the four and a half years he has ruled. We are continuing today in the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance, which was the basis of SYRIZA's proposal of distrust against the Minister of Finance Christos Staikoras. I would particularly like to emphasise the hypocritical attitude of the Anti-Population, as far as Cardinals and Cardinals are concerned, affected by the naturalities of last month. SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, comes and "switches the finger" to the government. His President, Mr Tsipras, in his position he referred to farmers, claiming that our Government does not support them. His party, however, has not passed either a bill of our government, nor the ones concerning the support of farmers, nor the financial relief of the perpetrators of 'January', nor the additional arrangements for the compensation of farmers who came to this House a few days ago. Right now, my fellow citizens in Karditsa are listening to their properties and their labors being lost by an extreme natural phenomenon. SYRIZA did not agree to financial compensation. Your leader, Mr. Tsipras, and your party officials, came to Karditsa, but for the show, as it turns out. The hypocrisy at the top! Not only did they support financial compensation for disasters. At the same time in Europe, your staff are against the influx of EUR 19 billion into Greek farmers, provided for by the new CAP. My obligation as Karditsa Law MEP is to highlight them, to highlight the hypocrisy of Officerial Opposition, which with a great deal of courage lies and continues to try to engender the citizens. His executives in Carditsa seek to make opposition and to obtain party benefits, pressing on the muds of the sanctuary. Ladies and gentlemen, the top point of the bill is the protection of first residence. SYRIZA, who used to call “no house in the hands of a banker” was finally the one who definitively abolished the protection of the first residence from February 2019. SYRIZA himself, in April 2019, committed to the European institutions to unify laws relating to insolvency, bankruptcy and debt restructuring, that is, now. It was justified that he didn't have time to complete it. You know, now, the convenient line that he's been saying lately 'he didn't catch up'. While you, gentlemen, have left thousands of civilians unprotected, our Minister, Mr Stagioras, has asked for and succeeded in extending power. With the GEOGRAPHY programme, we are prolonging protection until now. Now with an integrated plan we ensure our vulnerable fellow citizens, precisely so that their homes are not lost. On the question of the bankruptcy of natural persons again, the opposition says the words: "tombstones and hostages of small and medium-sized people", "which lead the Greeks to impoverishment and impoverish the world of hardship". Are you saying that, where did you level the middle class? Where did you get the tax advance at 100%? Where do you put twenty-nine new taxes? We, on the contrary, have reduced eighteen of these taxes, and we continue, because gentlemen of the Opposition, as liberals, are against overtaxation and in favour of private initiative. The opposite, that is, of you, the prisoners. The reality is that in 2019 the European Commission passed Directive 1023, according to which natural persons may also be targeted, in order to be exempted from all their debts and have a second chance. This will help people who really need it. Why, what does the picture show us? That in the past, and today, there are also natural persons who are bankrupt. Accidents are not only about companies and companies. Natural persons, however, who do not have the ability to repay their debts all their lives, are trapped. Confiscations, blocked accounts and a "black list" at the "TERIA". There are no integrated institutional frameworks to free them from the vicious circle of their debts. Nor can they start a new activity to survive and recover. There have been attempts to regulate in the past, such as the Katseli Act, which attempted to deal with the insolvency of natural persons, who provided protection in the simplest way to everyone, without any control and criterion, without necessary security controls and with the result that one in four who used turned out to be strategic misappropriators. A law that, despite its weaknesses, the New Democracy has voted for, while SYRIZA was faithful at the beginning of the permanent refusal had voted against him, regardless of whether he is now mentioned and is trying to intrude him, so that he is struggling with the Change Movement by claiming paternity. It has been heard that the government is starting with this bill. That's not right either. In addition to the obligations of the European directive, countries such as Belgium, Austria, France and others have for years been providing for the bankruptcy of natural persons. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, this is a realistic and innovative draft law. Its purpose is to avoid the bankruptcy of natural persons, a precedent which existed. So it radically changes the framework of the bankruptcy procedure, incorporates all the instruments of debt regulation that exist by creating a single framework. At the same time, the time has come for the crisis for strategic poor payers, non-payers, even though they can, and this is at the expense of the rest. The Mitsotakis Government has the moral obligation to put a definitive end to social injustice. We are legislating to ensure that neither one remains in debt nor in debt, nor is he or his children, to whom the debt is inherited. Today, we have thousands of legacy denominations, precisely for these reasons. From now on, one generation's debts will not be transferred to the next, neither to the children nor to the grandchildren. For these reasons, Mr President, I am voting for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u84	Please, get the Step ready and call the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Loverdos, to speak. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start, ladies and gentlemen, my speech today, with a nice one. I have identified from the Minutes of this House a debate in Parliament on the Katseli law, so that people can understand us, the PASOK law, because it was a law of our own time when I was the Minister of Labour. I mean, the first period of PASOK inside the crisis and the memoirs. When this draft law came to Parliament, Mrs Amanadidos - Pascalidou, who was the rapporteur of the SYRIZA and said: 'The Minister of Labour' - that is to say, I - 'he thought we all had to be charged behind the national effort the other day. That's a scary thing to say then. ‘National effort’, ‘retrieved’, ‘planned’, ‘sprayed’ and known’. The SYRIZA spokesman said: will the government also give advice to the banks, or is this only about low wages and low pensioners? The draft law is extremely painless for the banks and very little for those in debt. But there was also a parliamentary representative of the SYRIZA party, Mr Lafazanis. Now, let us hear a forecast of the reality that started after ten years: 'There will be no one who will benefit from the draft law'. It's perfect, don't tell me. It's very nice. 'It is not going to serve any borrower'. "Not one of the borrowers, who are in trouble and need of this tuition, will be served, starting with the extrajudicial compromise." I was saying yesterday that you're criticizing, you're attacking, you say what you have to say, when you're someone else, when you've done differently. You also defend something when you have supported it in his birth, when you appreciated it as good, not when you denounced it. When you're disgusting so many times, don't any of those people who hear out of the Chamber can think that what you're saying today is, like, air, and that's what you're saying. I am not a member of the majority - to say more - I am a member of the opposition. I wish to ourselves, when we articulate opposition to the government, that it is time for us to make a fool of ourselves in this Chamber. That's why a glimpse to myself, to anyone else, is: to be held back in what you say about others, to be your criticism more or less within her goal. That is what we have heard, not since Friday and then from Thursday and then from the Civic Opposition in this Chamber. Now let's go to the government. Minister, about ten days ago, Vassilis Kegeroglou, Michael Katrinis and I tabled a question to your colleague, Minister for Development, Mr Georgiadis, on the granting of liquidity - it was the general issue - in business. Mr. Georgiadis was here, he provided the information he had, on one of the three instruments, providing liquidity which is the repayable advance. He spoke for a hundred and eighty-five thousand businesses, Mr. Stakoura, who participated in returnee 1, 2 and 3. I repeat this, ten days ago, at most. My colleagues have turned - there are in the Minutes - and your reports on the same subject, and indeed, with your previous reports Mr Georgiadis’ number has shown that he has a connection with reality. You're close. In other words, it says the same hundred and eighty - five thousand, you say a repayable deposit of 1) 52,000, 2, 89,000 and 3. Pretty close. Yesterday, you spoke with another number, recorded your things, mentioned five hundred and thirty thousand different AFDs. What's going on here? I'm incompetent. Did Christ come down to earth and perform miracles? We have such an arithmetic difference, which if there is no explanation, I beg your pardon very much, but my conclusion is that within a week you have made that it has not happened all the time. There must be a reasonable explanation, because otherwise the National Representation is subjected to a smuggling. I imagine that you, who have such love with numbers, are always diligent and bring tables, can answer this question that I am asking, which, if confirmed, will then give an opportunity to follow the debate and before the vote to make our criticism different from the exploratory criticism that has been made so far. I told you - I do not know if you had heard me, but you were here - in my main speech on the motion of censure tabled by SYRIZA, that my interest in listening to the phrase'second chance', Mr Stakoura, is not so targeted at this issue and that his title on giving a second chance before the operation went bankrupt. That's a part of it. The provision of a second chance has another very interesting aspect. What about the poor guy? Because they used, invoking my speech - and I thank them - other opposition MPs, from other parties, to this point of view, I would like to give her the dimension that it really has today. Because we always have to be clear so there's no misunderstandings. What does 'economicly poor' mean today? It means financially dead. He can only be an employee. He can practice no other activity. You come with Article 9, with an article, which contains for those who are burnt to the ground. Demagogy also contains lies. I'm saying that now openly. I'm not asking a question, to get an answer, I'm talking in a certain way. I am very critical, critical, and I do not want to make fun of the world, whatever position we are talking about here. Article 91 says, for someone who doesn't know, that if one who went bankrupt wants to be reactivated, he can do so. It must not go to the margin of life, which is not just a margin for economic life, it is also a social life if it cannot work. Get out of the way. You're dying. So it says Article 91 that you don't, you don't die. You can continue to live unless otherwise, something else is provided for by legislation. You may - if you don't know - go to the misunderstanding or the wrong thing to say that they're solving this, thank God. It's not like that. In Article 15 of today's Banking Code there is the same provision. You add a phrase, which is a charge phrase, so that you do not allow the performer any chance to think or to put forward an argument against it. You say: 'Unless otherwise provided'. The declaration was in force to date, and today legislation with a more relaxed provision says so. 'Declaration from today onwards'. Just a proclamation? Oh, no. Declaration on the eyes of the world and, in practice, natural bans, explicit bans. Today, ladies and gentlemen, one whose company is bankrupt and is a mathematical, philosopher or caregiver can do, because it cannot issue a service report. He's dead. He'll live on the black market. There's no other way. And if you wanted something other than to regulate, you had to formulate the provision as follows. bankruptcy is not a reason for depriving them of a licence to pursue a profession. Configuration that I'm proposing to you, now here. I repeat, bankruptcy is not a reason for depriving a professional licence and it is very useful to intervene if you do so, because the law in force, once it is passed and published, is also poor for the natural person. It's about everybody. It is not only about companies, the current structure of bankruptcy law, as will arise from your own intervention. Let us now see what it means 'unless otherwise, it is foreseen'. There is a recent writing in 2017 by Professor Evangelos Perakis, which, by way of indication - I repeat - gives an indication - of eleven cases - which is 'otherwise provided' - of prohibitions on the exercise of a profession. Eleven cases prohibiting the exercise of a profession, recorded - I say again for the third time - for example. So, what's the point? Why do you have her in your Banking Law? Why didn't you work with the Justice Department? I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that one of the dozens of interventions in the Banking Code is so difficult in its legal reading and requires special skills, special qualifications and that, many times, if you have not lived in practice, you do not know what you are saying in this House. I remember a lot of interventions on bankruptcy law - I am closing, Mr President - and I remember all the participants in the majority, saying that we are bringing something new. Our government has intervened, and indeed, a great deal of intervention in Acquisition Law, the government of George Papandreou in 2010-2011. The many words here are poverty, if you do not know in practice what is a coup d'état. If you don't know in practice how the relationships between the lawyer, the bankrupt and the persons involved in the proceedings work, you might as well say vague things here. This, however, lands the situation in something specific and easily understandable. I insist, Mr. Stakoura. If you want to give an opportunity, in a time of recession and appalling economic difficulties, to change Article 91. In particular, if you wish, I will write it to you, there is already in the Minutes. Make this change. Talk to your partners until 4.30 p.m. We are going to vote, time is there. I wanted to be very specific. Ladies and gentlemen, since 2016 I have been trying to do this. Since 2016, the Minister of Justice in the Chamber has been here, not the Minister of Finance, who we could reach legal agreement. So now, Mr Staikora, I ask you on behalf of the Movement of Change and I personally to make this change. Does people hear us that when I asked them the question - interested, that is, not scientists, not lawyers, just interested ones - if they are covered by Article 91? They laughed at the adjustment. So please, for this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u86	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u87	On the issues of the bill, I'll be placed at the end once, just. Since Mr Loverdos raised an issue, I confirm what I said yesterday from the Step of the House, it is five hundred and twenty-nine thousand eighty-eighty-nine VAT of EUR 3 billion. I'll testify the relevant table. Mr. Loverdo, it's the three special-purpose allowances. In fact, what you will get in your hands does not have the last dose given to thirteen thousand and fifty-six businesses - the other day - that is, 254 million missing. I give him to my fellow Members, so that everyone in his prefecture knows how much money they went to the real economy. For example, it gave me a positive impression, the fact that on the third returnee - that shows the success of the program and also the targeting - most of the companies are not in Athens, they are in Heraklion, Crete. In Heraklion, Crete, they have taken three thousand six hundred ninety-three businesses in a week. Therefore, this is the repayable advance and special-purpose compensation, not the employee, in the undertaking. To the worker, it's another part of the Ministry of Labour. This is where I'm talking about the Treasury. It is therefore a small enterprise, up to 20 workers, who have received special purpose compensation. The entrepreneur, who has, for example, received the special purpose compensation and has received the repayable advance. This is therefore EUR 3 billion and I have the analysis per county. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I confirm two more figures, with the latest data we have: 12 thousand four hundred forty-five companies have been disbursed to them EUR 1.6 billion TEPIX 2. Recently, TEPIX 2 plus has started, it is another four hundred thirty-five companies, 26 million in the vending mechanism, always disbursement, not compromise, disbursement of five thousand four hundred eighteen companies EUR 2.9 billion. I shall therefore put them to the vote in the House. Until now, they have fallen into the real economy, by means of a repayable advance or through the banking system, 7 billion euros and we expect that they will reach 11 billion euros by the end of the year. I'm filing the relevant table in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is useful to all colleagues for all the laws we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Minister. I would now like to call on the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Besyropoulos, in Stepma, to put it in the amendment with a general number of 530 and a special 88 on other matters within his competence. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the House yesterday rejected the pretext of reproach in the face of the Minister of Finance, tabled by SYRIZA. However, the Greek society itself has definitively rejected populism and what SYRIZA expressed as political and moral, but also as government power. Indicative of the confusion that exists in the party of Officerial Response, were the references to the Katselis law, which they did not vote for when he came to Parliament. Mr. Tsipras announced yesterday from the Step of the House that, if and when it becomes a government, he will abolish the law that the House is called upon to vote today. He thinks we're in 2012 or 2014, who could say what he wants and some people believe him. Except no one believes him. No one believes you. The more you abolished the Memorandum with a law and an article, the more you would abolish this draft law. A very important bill, which is part of the management effort, but also of solving an extremely serious problem facing households and businesses with debts. It is a real problem, which must be addressed, not by fragmentary and inefficient measures, but by an integrated and sustainable framework. Of course, the aim must be to facilitate businesses and citizens, to repay or regulate their debts, with full knowledge of their rights and capabilities and, above all, to avoid caging in an insolvency regime. In this context, an early information mechanism for the citizen is being established in order to avoid the consequences which may arise from the failure to regulate his or her debts. Natural and legal persons have the possibility of regulating all their debts or of joining a second chance regime, by exempting them from their debts, for a certain period of time. The second opportunity gives the possibility of restructuring debts, but also of mobilising these debts, through the out-of-court settlement mechanism, by using an electronic platform specific to that effect. There is also provision for the possibility of repayment of debts still in two hundred forty instalments, to financial institutions, public and insurance funds. The government, through the specific institutional framework, but also all the provisions on the regulations, which have become the laws of the state, has a clear and concrete aim. He wants to give an opportunity to join these arrangements, but also to the second opportunity regime, those who really need it, excluding strategic poor payers. The aim is to bring about a return to normality for the vast majority of citizens, but also for companies, which have debts. This objective is also pursued by the amendment, under the general number 530 and number 88, tabled by the Ministry of Finance, aimed at addressing the problems caused by pandemic to natural and legal persons, in terms of repayment, but also in the context of the arrangements for their debts. Article 1 of the amendment introduces rules concerning all natural and legal persons affected by the coronary. It enables them to incorporate all their unregulated certified debts to the tax administration, such as VAT, which were created in the period March to June 2020, on particularly favourable terms. These debts, suspended until 30 to 2021, may be adjusted from May to 2021 in 12 instalments of interest or in twenty-four instalments at an exceptionally low rate of 2.5% and at a minimum of 30 euros. Article 2 of the Amendment provides for the debts of natural and legal persons regulated for the instalments of March to June 2020 and for which a prolongation of payment and suspension of recovery had been granted, which ends on 30-4-2021. These doses, which are suspended and not paid, will be added at the end of the doses of initial adjustment. I said at the beginning of my speech that the aim of the government is to create the opportunities and conditions for returning to the normality of all those in debt problems. The consequences of pandemic on economic activity have led to a loss of debt arrangements from the past. Article 3 of the amendment allows those affected by the pandemic and who have lost, for whatever reason, a partial payment arrangement of 100 or 100 or 20 instalments or an extrajudicial mechanism, in the period from March to October 2020, to continue to pay the standard as from November 2020. This regulation revives, with all its benefits, such as the liberalisation of bank accounts. Doses not paid are added as hypernumeric after the last dose. The reincorporation into the arrangement shall be carried out automatically by the payment of the November 2020 instalment. Such a target is also provided for in Article 4 of the amendment, which allows the new rules to be subjected to the new rules, to companies and natural persons that were consistent with existing regulations on 1 November 2019, but then, due to a weakness caused by the consequences of the pandemic, they lost the regulation. All the provisions contained in the amendment that we have tabled are targeted at addressing existing problems, such as debt arrangements, arising from business loans and loans from natural persons, with the guarantee of the Greek State, which has been granted and corresponded to certain debts. They are loans granted with the guarantee of the Greek State, with ministerial decisions, until 2012, but also with the guarantee of the Greek Development Bank, the former EIBAN or the TEMPUS. Paragraph 1 of Article 5 of the amendment includes the number of instalments and represents a percentage exemption from increases and late payment interest. These debts can now be repaid up to a hundred and twenty-monthly instalments. Article 6 of the amendment extends the possibility of regulating, without the conditions of certification by an independent valuer and the provision of a guarantee, safeguard or safeguard, for a period of two years from the publication of this draft law. Everyone knows, especially, the people of tourism, the problem that has been created in Greek businesses, which had traded with the company "THOMAS COOK", which was in bankruptcy in the autumn of 2019. The Government initiated immediately, granted the first extension of the suspension of VAT payments until 30 June 2020. Subsequent second extension until 31 October 2020. Given that tourism is a sector that has been critically affected by the effects of the pandemic, a third extension should be granted until 30 April 2021, through Article 7 of the amendment. A legislative intervention, which demonstrates a sense of reality, is included in Article 8 of the amendment, which introduces the suspension of payment to the public of 5% on hospitals from private chronic dialysis units, due to the special circumstances, which have arisen since the beginning of 2020, because of the pandemic of COVID -19. Article 9 shall extend the suspension of the issue of payment orders for the payment of cheques until 31 December 2020 or 31 January 2021, as applicable to their category. Article 10 confirms that the central core of the New Democracy Government's policy, even in the midst of the pandemic crisis, is the reduction of taxes. This provision constitutes a tax relief for natural persons whether they are private persons or persons having a business activity. Given that 2020 will be exempted from the solidarity levy, incomes from business activity, from capital - dividends, interest, rights and real estate - as well as capital transfer gains. This article exempts from the special solidarity levy, for 2021, incomes acquired by an employed person in the private sector. With Article 11, we have another reduction in tax rates, which is intended to boost economic activity. It is about reducing VAT from 24% to 13% for the import of works of art and artistic trades, as well as the import and delivery of works of artistic value. Article 12 of the amendment exempts non-profit-making legal persons in order to strengthen their humanitarian and charitable work during the pandemic period. A social-target measure is the provision of Article 13, which seeks to facilitate families with minors in the acquisition of first residence by increasing the surface of the property needed to meet their housing needs. Article 14 reintroduces the suspension of an examination of the objections referred to in Article 7 of Law 2308 of 1995 until 29 January 2021, in order to facilitate citizens, in specific areas facing a problem with their real estate. In the same direction, the regulation, which extends until 30 November the time limit for the convening of a regular general meeting of the urban cooperatives and for extending the term of office of their administrative and supervisory boards until the general meeting has been convened, shall also be extended. Finally, with a view to more efficient management of the work, within the framework of the permanent Greek delegation to the OECD, issues are dealt with for the tasks of the above agency. Ladies and gentlemen, all the provisions contained in the amendment from the Ministry of Finance are in place. This, I believe, requires a broad and inter-transitional consensus. The government is aware of the size of the private debt problem either towards the public or to the banks and the insurance funds. It is a problem that has increased over the past five years. A difficult equation, which is becoming even more difficult because of the pandemic, which has multiple and negative consequences for economic activity. In order to adequately address this major problem, it needs a sense of responsibility and audacity. The Government has shown that it has both, unlike the Census. SYRIZA is trying to bring the country back to 2012 or 2014 when he had a reason for existence. That's when he promised everything to everyone, that's when he smashed memoirs. Behavioural as if he never ruled, he believes that Greek citizens will forget that he brought an unnecessarily painful and painful memorandum, imposed twenty-nine increases in taxes, granted the public property for ninety years in the superstate, signed everything, accepted everything. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] But the country's looking ahead. It's moving forward. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has the support of the great majority of the Greek people to continue its reform work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Minister. The Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25, Mr Adamopoulos, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. As we have already said this three-day, the bankruptcy code bill bears a title, which is misleading. He's talking about giving a second chance. However, we still do not understand who this second opportunity is actually being provided. For whom they really care in the end and whose interests rush to serve in a privileged way. It is clear that the government has decided to draw up, not with winter debtors, but with banks and predators. That is why it has structured a framework of provisions, which gives full priority, together with a toolbox of rights and procedures to the banks by even upgrading the banks at all stages of the process. We say this because while the guarantee role, the role of sovereign until now has been played by justice, this time after the bill is banks, it is the financial interests, which take action and have the dominant say. Unfortunately, the debtor is treated de facto and preliminarily as a strategic mispaid and mismanager. The government does not take into account what has been said before, that we are at a time of deep crisis, extreme unemployment and recession. Nor, of course, does he realize that poverty is the objective cause of weaknesses in payments. Instead of that, he sees everywhere evil battalions, irresponsible, who allegedly lived beyond and above their capabilities, without seeing the truth that the most strategic mispaid, the most fraudulent mispaid, are the banks themselves. In fact, when the banks had been bankrupt, they had kneeled, instead of bringing the banks before their long-term responsibilities and even looking for the responsibilities in the political establishment itself, you forced the Greek citizen to recapitalise the banks, taxing the wild, cutting all social benefits and dismantling the welfare state itself. All of this is precisely to get through, to recapitalise the banks, in which the State did not have the slightest share, but became a major shareholder, for no reason in dividends. What is now happening in terms of the provisions of the bill? You create an online platform for out-of-court settlement. There banks and funds will collect all the debtors' assets. Of course, this is a pretext and this is because, in fact, creditors will not commit themselves to accepting the proposal of the debtors. They will not be obliged to take into account any of the proposals and to answer them. They will work by imposing their will arbitrarily with fast track procedures, without any conciliation, without security controls, and even for debtors of the order of EUR 30 000, for very small debts. Therefore, what is provided to the debtor is a patchy incentive to resort to this platform of out-of-court regulation. A two-month freeze, i.e. the liquidation process of his property, until the process is completed and a false prospect that I will be able to pay up to two hundred forty instalments, without telling them that this amount of these doses is maximum, which, in practice, the bank is very rarely accepted. While for reasons that we do not understand, it will not be accepted in cases of debtors over sixty years. Neither will the public be able to oppose a proposal and the citizens will eventually be called or accepted the regulation or bankruptcy. Then, after the banks collect all the information on the debtor's assets, they will designate a court of their absolute choice. He will not be appointed, as has been done so far by justice. It will be an appeal, which will not guarantee either transparency or openness or independence and will be converted into a quasi-corporate and mandated bank. In short, you have given both the knife and the melon to the banks and to the debtors, they will not be as they were so far traders who have taken any business risk, but they are simple individuals. They're people next door who have nothing to do with bankruptcy. Because the concept of bankruptcy was simply not intended to include them. We know that bankruptcy in any case was traditionally structured on the commercial property. Not only that, but you are abolishing any protection of the main residence. You are making the category of so-called vulnerable debtors. They are the individuals whose income does not exceed EUR 7 000 per year. For couples, 10,500 euros a year. It's an arbitrary criterion. We don't know where it comes from. Why are we asking, that is, the one who has an annual income of EUR 7,500 is not considered vulnerable? Who else cannot be considered vulnerable, and indeed, regardless of income? The free trader and the farmer. The self-employed, who has himself been targeted by the Association of Greek Industrialists. In other words, they will not be considered vulnerable even with zero income. Since each of their assets is liquidated, then they lose their ownership right. Owner becomes a private body, a fund. They are then invited to lease the property for about twelve years. After 12 years and since the vulnerable debtor was forty-four months typical in its payments, he is allowed to buy the property from the fund again, but the commercial value that the fund itself will determine and without the hundreds of four leases to be offset by the value and deducted from it. In the rare case - because it will be a rare case - that will be able to walk before twelve years and will want to get his home back, he will have to pay off the remaining rents. In other words, within twelve years, for example, if the rent is delayed three months, the fund will evict him. Why is this all happening? It's simple. Because in this way banks will secure derivatives, they will have a basis for derivatives, which will move on the money market and securitise the money from rent. And that's because it's bad at least to try to convince that a man who's being held back from what's making over the reasonable living costs of 611 euros, who should also pay other obligations and other rents, that he will be able to raise this chapter in twelve years to get his home. We know, therefore, that in these circumstances of the deep crisis, it is incomprehensible that it will be possible to retreat. On the contrary, in extreme poverty, no second chance will be seen. What we'll see is a one-way disaster. We will see Greek citizens leaving Greece, deserting Greece. Even those who live will not even be able to have a family. The bill also includes a confiscation procedure. Since the debtor is a legal person and the three auctions are fruitless, the property is owned by the public. This confiscation will not be carried out in return for example impairment or debt write-off. The question is: what portfolio will the property eventually be included? In T.Y.I.E.L.D., in the superstition? Will the created property be the contribution to the already unsustainable public debt? To close my position, therefore, I will recall the following. The government has decided to deceive us, playing with words, with labels. It's a well-known tactic called a label scam. All the burden of the new bankruptcy procedure has passed in the catastrophic and stigmatistic liquidation, against the dominant European tendency to move into massive bankruptcy and to prioritise the consolidation and restructuring of debts. Contrary to international slumber, there is another piece of legislation on classical bankruptcy and another on household hardship, with another philosophy and process each. The government here promotes the liquidation of the properties, the fast-track bankruptcy, the degradation of society and the impending marginalisation of hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens. Neither the bodies in the committee have heard of the catastrophe you will be seeing, because you have eyes only for the banks and predators of the debt-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u92	Thank you. Mr Hatzigiannakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think it was March when this bill was first in consultation. I am not sure why I received a phone call from a family friend, the highest court, who asked me: did you see the consultation that has come out for the new bankruptcy law?' After all, you had announced it much earlier, and wondered what bankruptcy it was, and what bankruptcy it is, in which the debtor, not just is not relieved even after bankruptcy - I am not talking about the whole process until he has been bankrupt - but he continues after he has been dived into all the property, after he has been liquidated, he continues and is bound, even with his mere wages. It was the first time, then, that I went to read the consultation throughout the seven, eight months. I didn't stop wondering who, head of mind, really thought about this bill. I cannot believe - perhaps a little well-meaning, because I consider myself to be well-meaning and ultimately a little naive. Finally, I have begun to be surprised at my naiveness - because I have in my mind a government, a New Democracy party, with which I disagree on many things. But perhaps because I had a party in mind, which has also given some struggles for democracy, there are parts of the People's Right, I couldn't imagine how you would bring to the House a piece of legislation that writes what it says. And immediately afterwards, after I was very concerned about it, I discussed it with a lot of people and the market, and even a lot of people coming from your ideological circles, I failed to get a reasonable answer, and that is when I thought, but we have Prime Minister Mitsotakis. He doesn't ask us any questions. All the legislation you passed in 2012-2015 and in which, at some point, their course has been interrupted because the Greek people have not endured any more, bring it back now and do, in fact, our country a experimental animal. Now, however, not with memoranda and not at the request of the lenders, as it was or at least invoke the 20102-2015 period, but with your own will you put into a legislature, a public legislature, the Banking Code of Enterprises and Traders with natural persons, and what are you actually doing? You have all been told, of course, by colleagues in the Confederal Group of the European United Left, but we are telling you this so that the Greek people can hear it, because I cannot really believe what I am reading. So the bankrupt, since we do not protect his first residence, we put him in a tenant, if he is vulnerable, that is to say, if he lives at 600 and 700 euros up to there, because the surplus, if any, should give it a better job to pay his debts, continue to pay his debts in his own home. We are subsidising him in part, and in twelve years, if he has become a "wizard" of economics, so the man who makes 600 euros, 700 euros, 800 euros, a family who makes 900 euros and lives in them, in a magical way, there is a case and after we have transferred the property, he is transferred, he has no cult, the only cult that gives him your bill is in twelve years, although he can pay the rent that has been fixed, we do not know how, but he will have been determined, to have a right to buy back. If in twelve years this man in a magical way has found the money to buy a house, why, obviously, will he not have access to the banking system, is that obvious from common sense, why not go to buy another house? So, what are you doing? You're saving him from moving costs? Instead of subsidising him with another rent, for example, you tell him that: "We are subsidising you with your own house and I'm saving you from moving costs." You're not doing anything else. So, what's offered as a second chance? Let's understand. The bankruptcy law, and Mr. Loverdos told you before, does not mean the second chance. At least that's what we learned in law, and I want to be very careful, because it's actually used as a title, that fantasy, the second chance. Acquisition is a specific process in companies and traders, it will now also happen to natural persons, and it is a burdensome process. It has no meaning of a second chance of bankruptcy, even of traders, even of businesses. You, not only, do not give a second chance to natural persons or, of course, to small businesses or to indebted enterprises. Do you throw them into the abyss of a 12-year relationship, in which they should be consistent, should they have the same rent in the same house and what are you doing? The rapporteur of Mera25 told you before, quite rightly in my view. In fact, you ensure banks and funds and the acquisition of property ownership of the property but with a secured rent. We should go buy people's homes and ensure us for twelve years that we have them rented. You did so in 2012-2015 with the public property, which you used to sell real estate, guaranteeing, having found earlier who would rent them at very high prices. So now you are doing it for the private property of all Greek indebted taxpayers. This is not a second chance. That's a disaster and, obviously, it'll change as soon as you leave the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u94	Thank you. Mr. Kalamatiano has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. May I, too, wish for many years today in Demetres and Dimitris, to those who celebrate. I am starting with the huge dismantling of the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Chrysochoidis, who described as nationalism the request for the extension of our territorial waters to twelve miles. It is unacceptable, it is incomprehensible, that this statement is challenging. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has put into it. They see them both in Turkey and in Europe and they should be very careful. He must apologise and apologise to the Minister. He hasn't done it so far, and the Prime Minister yesterday didn't even mention his name. It should therefore withdraw and apologize. But the Minister for Civil Protection said something else. That he picked up the police in decay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u96	This first is an insult to the officials of the Greek Police. It is good that the Minister understands that he is already running sixteen months of such excuses and pretexts are cheap and are not believed. He must apologise to the Minister because the Deputy Chief of the Golden Dawn Christos Poppas is a fugitive. I would remind you that Periander was another member of the Golden Dawn, who was a fugitive during his previous term. Second time the Minister has been exposed with Golden Dawn officials. But his successes. Chrysochoid is exhausted in the detention of fourteen-year-old children, in the dissolution of the grand concentration of peaceful anti-fascist concentration at the court of appeal, in the anti-constitutional restriction of the right of assembly, in the invasion of houses, beatings of innocent citizens even young people. You have a duty, Minister, now to bring the condemned Pope before the prosecutor for the creation of sentences, and when that happens, Mr Chrysochide, to know that we will be satisfied. Of course we'll be pleased to have to worry about it. But one more fiasco with your own responsibility with your signature, it'll be done and you know it. I now come to what has been discussed three days in the motion of censure. Your own MPs confessed that in December 2014, in December 2014, the New Democracy - PASOK rule had not predicted the extension of protection of the first residence to the law of Katseli. Our own government also provided for it by the Act Katseli - Stathakis protected the first residence, protected the popular first residence of the middle and small incomes up to 250,000 euros, and that is the truth. We did not protect those who have villas and swimming pools, we did not protect them, but the folk first residence of middle and low incomes was protected, and that is the truth. If there was no protection, why did your Minister come here, Mr.Adonis Georgiadis, in January 2020, and said that to keep us from ruining our hearts - that's what he said in April 2020 - the first home is over. But also in the report sent by your government to the institutions, it was committed that in 2020 it would abolish the protection of first residence. And that's what you're doing now. That's not what you said. So since you committed yourself to abolishing her that she was not protected because she was not protected. You committed yourself and you do it now. The electronic auctions twenty-four thousand. Bring us even one who is an auction for first homes up to EUR 240,000, as I say, and obviously these auctions do not concern property like this, may be auctions that some workers, for example, have asked to auction their employer's property to get their accrued and paid. Not the first residence up to 240,000 euros. So history says that today if you vote for this monstrosity, you finish all protection of the first home. Throughout the procedure in this House and the positions of representatives of producer bodies, scientific associations and consumer associations, it has already been shown that in reality the bill does not settle debts, does not provide any second opportunity for the first residence, it is a bill that creates thousands of newly-poverted people, proving that you are indifferent to the situation in society. Turkish aggression right now has hit red. The pandemic is scoring, wages have collapsed, household incomes have shrinked, the turnover of small and medium-sized enterprises has fallen to half, free professionals have been severely affected. And what are you doing, in view of a new humanitarian crisis and within the health and economic crisis you are putting the loss of first home to priority, the bankruptcy and the liquidation of households and traders' property. You are prepared to satisfy the bank lenders, you are clearly aiming at the rapid liquidation of all the assets of today's and future citizens and businesses who are unable to pay their debts. There is nothing for the banks. On the contrary, the banks must be fully satisfied, you do not oblige them for anything, nor for loans guaranteeing the Greek State which, for example, was given to my home country in Elias because of the fires in 2007. With the amendment you bring you forget the ministerial decision of December 2018 and the Circular of 2019 adopted by the SYRIZA Government. These provided for the adjustment of these loans. In your amendment you set a hundred and twenty instalments of the certified debts in the DUs. Kuveda, you are not talking about the bank's obligations to regulate these loans before they are established in the taxes. This is what is needed primarily by the firefighting companies and you do not dare to oblige the banks. Mr President, I conclude by saying that measures are currently being taken to support households and businesses throughout Europe. You liquidate the property of the weak and unleash them. It leads to the destruction of businesses, professionals and households. That's the truth, don't try to twist it. Hardly close your eyes and ears in your despair. You serve interests, not society. The refractiveness of your supportive media doesn't change reality. Society will again bring SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance to the rule of the country, to abolish this law and to re-protect the first residence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, the bombing with lies from the ruling party I think is something unprecedented and it is a bombing of such a kind that no one can afford to consume. Mrs Anastassopoulos spoke about an hour ago about the cushion issue, which was said by this step yesterday by the Prime Minister that the New Democracy created it, as well as about the mastography that continues to be repackaged. To add two more yesterday, one concerns the relationship with the United Arab Emirates that you were supposed to have built. There are some limits, that is, our relationship with the United Arab Emirates has been built and they have reached the highest point in our own governance, better relations are dying and cannot go to the best. You are taking advantage of today, you have not built them. And the second, even more challenging, of course, is the extension to twelve nautical miles in the Ionian Sea. Let me remind you that we had announced the extension during the transfer from Kotzia to Mr Katrugalo in the autumn of 2018. We have been very critical and attacked by the NW and its responsible department at that time that it is a huge mistake and yesterday the Prime Minister called on us because we did not extend the twelve nautical miles to the Ionian Sea. There are two other examples. It was said that there was a Euro-Turkish question on the Greek-Turkish government. Since when did it become Euro-Turkish? The President-in-Office has dealt with the issue of Turkey, as we would have liked to do, and it has not even been discussed at the last summit. I'm coming to the bankrupt. Many things have been said, I only spoke yesterday in the debate on the motion of censure. I would like to begin with an observation concerning the right-wing party. Even the Karamanlis government would not have dared to bring the same bankruptcy. I do not think it is a coincidence that Mr Rousopoulos was chosen to suggest. I simply say to him that the Karamanlis government would not have brought such a bankruptcy, and I do not say so to give credit to the Karamanlis government, to say that the current government is a truly extreme government in its policies. At least we don't have to be kings of the king. In other words, I have heard Mr Roussopoulos - if I am mistaken to correct me - on a television channel, I have heard from other colleagues in this building that the banks consent and disagree. All right, to a point where we can falsify reality. The banks agree, and all entities are against each other. And I'm actually coming. Well, there was a second chance before. You do not introduce the second chance. There was a second chance by the law of Katselis - Statakis and by the law of Flamouraris. Is it necessary at some point, whoever it was a government, to have a new bankruptcy framework with transitional provisions and permanent provisions after the ten-year crisis that we have been through? Obviously, but there was a second chance. What's the new lead? The new element is not the second chance. First of all, there is not she in fact, but that is another matter. The new element is not the second chance. The new element is that one can, under certain conditions, go to the second opportunity if we strip it completely of his assets. One is this, and the second and perhaps even worse that this will be done under the terms of those who do not have the slightest damage or the slightest damage and the greatest gain, respectively, for creditors and banks, and that is what makes this bankruptcy extremely aggressive, and that is what does not exist elsewhere in the Western world. Mrs Skondra said earlier, she mentioned examples of some European countries for a second opportunity. I challenge you, if you like, to bring the bankruptcy of other European countries and we may, under certain conditions, vote for it ourselves. There is not one European country - but I will come to the United States too - that has this bill, the abortion, which you have taken down and said so yesterday. We made a mistake, and we recognize it. It's not a bankrupt who's just cut and stitched to the bank measures. Even so, that is what the banks are today, we would probably bring something that would be more reasonable. You have brought an abortion, which is the result of the question of a sick brain in a legal office, who is that law, who is that bankruptcy code that removes every right from the debtor, who gives all the rights to the creditor, who closes all the holes, all the windows that a debtor could use, to save his fortune or what he's to pay. Truly, this is what he had brought and there are provisions that are outrageous. Even these do not correct the outrageous provisions. Well, let me tell you what's going on in the United States, which is the "man" of capitalism internationally. I would therefore inform you that there are many states in the United States which provide for a second opportunity - of course, no one said - with the exception of first residence, with income criteria. In California, for example, it was $500,000 the first home of a first home value limit and they have now taken it down to $300,000 excluding first home. Look at it if you want. Many European countries themselves, but this is one side. The other most serious side of the European Union and its countries is what? That in order to provide the opportunity and save one's home, even if there is no absolute protection, is that reasonable living costs are provided and that is the most important of all. Look wherever you want, Mr. Stakoura. They predict reasonable expenses, being able to pay back and keep a home or residence it has chosen or anything and pays within a certain context. He has that right. He does not come to the creditor and imposes on him "I go bankrupt, I take you everything and come after ten years, if you want, to buy it in his commercial value." What you are doing is unprecedented throughout the European Union. I shall conclude, Mr President, just give me a minute. And I'm coming to finish. What did we do on the basis of the law of Katseli - Stathaki? Because there's a lot to be said. First, it was not just a first home protection vehicle. It was also a legal refuge for those who could not reconcile with the banks, the funds or the public and all their creditors in order to regulate the debts. It was significantly enlarged in 2015, while it was not complete in the previous governments, giving a solution to other debts, which until then had not existed in funds such as the debts in funds, the CEC, the CEC, the CEC, the private, the DU and the others. An income needed for living - what I said before - was protected by the debtors and their families, which was identified by ELSTAT and was not in any way intimate. He had special beneficial provisions for those who do not have sufficient assets and also protected unemployed people. AME, people with serious health problems, etc. Even Simopoulos, your MEP, acknowledges that this bill removes the protection of first residence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u99	Before I give the floor to you and until the seat is ready, Mr Levane, the Minister of Education, Mrs Kerameos, will take the floor for two minutes to inform you of the amendments. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will be very brief and apologise to colleagues. Two provisions. The first relates to the extension of the rules applicable to COVID -19, on procurement for equipment for distance education, health material for educational structures and others, the acceptance of donations that we are continuing to receive and we are again accepting equipment for educational structures. Therefore, the first regulation concerns precisely these procedures for extending these procedures. The second regulation refers to the election of teachers for the service councils and the possibility of setting out the details necessary for such election procedures for the appointment of teachers to the cabinets of ministries. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, too, Minister. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Spilios Lebanese.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President, before I begin my speech, I would like, if you allow me, to express my condolences to the family and to the familiars of Harry Karaja, an old MEP who has been denouncing Parliament for many years. I would remind the younger people that Harris Karatzas was a leading executive of the youth of ERE, EREN, during the presidency of Panagiotis Kanellepoulou and Constantine Karamanlis. During the dictatorship he had a rich anti-democratic democratic activity, and in 1974 he was elected a MP, and served as Deputy Minister of Education from 1977 to 1980. Harry Karatzas was a genuine democrat, simple and intact man. It was a fine example, in the ancient Greek sense of the term, of the good, unselfish and useful politics for our country. During the five-day "batterlo" for SYRIZA discussed the bill, two days and the pretext of reproach for three days, Mr. Tsipras' political inability has emerged a great deal, which has made yet another mistaken political move. He was unwittingly expelled or on purpose - we have talked about this several days - Mr Tsakalotos and forced all SYRIZA Members to come one - one -, one - in this step and to apologize for the lies and mistakes of their period of governance. Once again, the absolute impotence of SYRIZA's arguments has come to light, and it can be that today's Census during its governance has brought back the political and economic change that one would expect from the "first time left", but last night in this Chamber Mr. Tsipras, with a ton of aggressive, Polakis, to speak to us about the "second time left" he said this time otherwise than the first. Thank you very sincerely, I think everyone we heard about the enjoyable joke at the end of a tiresome three-day day. We appreciate the sense of humor wherever it comes. That is why, when he expressed this view, I think that all Parliament's wings applauded him, and we do not see that often in this Chamber. Of course, I cannot comment, because much has been said about empty seats, that Mr Tsipras, who himself provoked this motion of distrust to the Minister of Finance, did not even have the courtesy, the tact, to be here and to hear the speech of the Minister of Finance. This is to understand who we are and how we behave. However, from all the debate on the motion of censure, I have sincerely been unable to reach any position among the colleagues of the Officerial Opposition, to conclude what is the other way you are proposing. Neither on the bill, however, nor on the theories, as I heard Mr Vitsa mention examples in the air nor, therefore, as concrete solutions for the part of bankruptcy and second opportunity, nor as a proposal for your general ideological direction. And with regard to someone who has heard today about the least and most of the states, neoliberalism and all these ideological things, I would like to say something that I think only SYRIZA has not understood. That for us in the New Democracy this dilemma "less or more state" is outdated. For us, it is about creating a more intelligent, more efficient state and at the same time allowing the market to function, control and punish illegality, ensuring equal opportunities. Just as Christos Stakoras said yesterday in his speech, the mixture of our policy can change in the light of circumstances, but - quite rightly, the Minister said so - in the middle, and that is why he listens to us and expresses a very large part of society, much greater than what he is voting for us. And it's not a bit of a vote, because it's 40%. They heard a lot about the media and their control allegedly by the government because he used the list of Peshas and so on. I think, if I understood correctly, that was SYRIZA's main line of defense, because his political speech doesn't sound. I want to make it clear that we in New Democracy believe in the liberal state, political liberalism and the basic value of this political liberalism is the independent and strong presence of dialogue and criticism. It is clear that we and we want and support pluralism, because we consider it to be the oxygen of our democracy. We believe that dialogue, pluralism, exchange of views, disagreements, strengthen our democracy and together strengthen the law of our policy. I hope you do not fully adopt to SYRIZA the logic of militant media, party, fanatical sometimes anti-democratic and criminal, in terms of the murder of characters, media and many such examples, with the latest of the clay cross on "AGEI" with the photos by Antonis Samaras and Kyriakou Mitsotakis. Ladies and gentlemen, if something was made quite clear during the three-day debate on the motion of censure, it is that the New Democracy Constituent Parliamentary Group is actually proud of all the work of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and, above all, of the overall economic policy, the work and the political course of the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Staikos, and of course we are all supporting the bill for the second opportunity. Some Members have said today that they are less registered than New Democracy to speak. Obviously it is, because three days are whispering your party and your opinion, and today many of them have gone to their districts, after they have already spoken, so that they do not repeat the same thing, because as we know it is a great day for Orthodoxy, the day of St. Demetrius. But why do we support it with passion and not only did we not try to hide this bill, but we believe in its usefulness. Because by giving a solution to the private debt problem and bringing this innovative and holistic framework, we put an end to fragmented scattered provisions, we modernise the overall framework and harmonise it with the practices followed by all European countries and all the western countries, which at least we know. I have not heard from any of you, who criticizes this bill, an example of another country that operates differently or even an idea from you how our country could operate otherwise, of course, apart from the well-known lies of seismicism, which I think have been a little 'bay'. But something else was made quite clear, not only in this Chamber, but in all Greek citizens. That your concern, gentlemen of SYRIZA, is absolutely pretext for protecting the first home and the auctions. Nor did you have any objection of anti-constitutionalism, nor did your rapporteur ask you to withdraw the bill in her speech. More importantly, you have defended - you have tried to defend yourself and perhaps you will do so today - for Katselis, a law that you had not even voted for, as with a nice shampoo style you have analysed before Mr Loverdos and you are lying, because you as a government have abolished - I will say it once again - the horizontal protection of the first home, namely the Law 4436 and you have finalised with Law 4592. The Prime Minister told you yesterday and you again did not respond to this. Furthermore, the definition of vulnerable debtors was also made by your own legislation, by Laws 4472/2017 and 4389/2016 and you lie once again to Greek citizens, now that you are on the veil of Anti-Population again, suggesting that as a so-called alternative, the full exemption, from what we understand, that is what you say, without any bankruptcy, a new seismism - which is, from the outset, and from the outset - and you know that this cannot be done either, but you have not done so in the years that you have been ruling. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, today's bill is a key reform step, which solves one of the greatest problems for both citizens and the development of our economy. This is understood by those who have little to do with reality and the market. We would expect a responsible opposition to put back on the citizens and businesses that have drowned in debts and are looking for a second chance, because in all the major problems, such as the problem of private debt that concerns us today, the national, the pandemic of the coronary, the Greek people want one thing from us: Observation, understanding and creative confrontation of ideas, they do not want sterile and miserable confrontation, populist krone, plundering ears - whatever they hear - but they lead to absolutely dead ends. Sadly, however, the opposition has chosen today to appear, all these days, five days now, under the circumstances. You have no sign of responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA. Too bad you refuse to give the tested Greek citizens a second chance. However, you should know that you are invited to account for them and they are the ones who will be judged at the end of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u103	Thank you too, Mr Levane. Mrs Stergianis Biziou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, red loans, first home, auctions, bankruptcy, debts to insurance funds and tax, this is the private debt in Greece. The numbers are relentless. According to official information from the Bank of Greece, the High Authority for Public Revenue and EKKA, the total private debt amounts to EUR 234 billion. In the last decade to deal with private debt and to protect the first home, a number of tools have been established, such as Katseli Law and its successor, and a number of debt arrangements to insurance funds and tax, but despite the large number of legislation and regulations, a sustainable and definitive solution has not been given. The result today is a large part of the private debt to remain out of any cover-up arrangements that could ensure its smooth service. These arrhythmias are coming to heal today's bill, a bill that is systematic and coherent, which universally settles the question of private debt by putting an end to the confusion of the diffuse provisions and fragmentary arrangements. Tools are introduced to reduce private debt in a rational manner, achieving a balance between economic and social parameters. It covers gaps that left a large number of debtors without a solution to their deadlock, protects their first residence and vulnerable households. It ensures the functioning of sustainable enterprises and professionals. It identifies strategic malicious payers, with appropriate cross-checking and privacy mechanisms, detect those who have sufficient repayment capacity, but by fraudulent means avoid paying. Acts preventively, for the first time an early warning mechanism is introduced for debtors, which aims to activate the debtor in order not to reach a definitive weakness. Loan servicing centres shall be established to provide specialised consultancy services aimed at supporting the borrower in the effort to meet its lending obligations. Businesses and professionals experiencing financial difficulties will have access to effective preventive restructuring tools that will enable them to continue operating. This is achieved through the extrajudicial conciliation and resolution process. These mechanisms are available to creditors at an early stage of solvency and aim to maintain their viability, minimise the damage to creditors and ensure jobs. The extrajudicial conciliation procedure is available to both natural and legal persons, it is conducted through an electronic platform, it is fast, it is confidential and, if this is achieved, it benefits all the parties involved, as the debtor is relieved of the financial burden and creditors are shielded from the risk of having a debtor against them in real weakness. In the case of medium and larger enterprises, it is planned to use the resolution process, a process which requires the consent of creditors, ensures the position of those who do not consent, but above all ensures that workers' rights are not affected. If preventive restructuring is not possible, the debtor can resort to the bankruptcy procedure, a bankruptcy procedure that is different from the one we know so far because it is geared to the second chance. At the opportunity of reintegration into economic life. Now the bankrupt person is relieved of his debts over a period of one to three years, provided he does not go bankrupt. The professional does not lose his license to pursue his profession, and he can therefore proceed quickly to the creation of postoperative property. The time has come for bankruptcy to be completed at 12 months, thirty-six in the case of major bankruptcys. Finally, there are decades of exhaustive bankruptcies. Entrepreneurship, innovation, success and failure are inextricably linked. Failure, after all, is a condition for success. Which one of us? Who? Any field of action can claim to have succeeded with the first time in whatever was tested? That is why the bankruptcy procedure must not be a stigma, not a punishment, but an encouragement. Poverty regimes of a punishable nature operate dissuasively to attract new investors and, of course, do not encourage existing honest professionals for a new start. How are we going to convince our country's twenty-five-year-old youngster to attempt if he knows that possible failure will set him down professionally, and then we wonder why so much of our youth seeks the assurance of appointment? What distinguishes bankruptcy in this bill is that it focuses on the second chance without stigmatizing, without punishing the poor. First residence and vulnerable households, an issue that has troubled us and affected us as much as anything else in the years of the crisis. Today we are practically showing our support for those who are truly vulnerable, giving them dignity and not charity. How do we achieve this? With the grant of the first home loan, we are able to save the home, but we are also encouraging the debtor to be consistent with his obligations. This at the settlement stage, at the liquidation stage and when the auction is inevitable, enables the debtor to remain in his residence for a period of 12 years by paying a rent which is paid by the State, while at the same time retaining the right to buy his home. From the previous government, we inherited a regime that left the first residence unprotected. On the initiative of the Ministry of Finance, we extended the protection that SYRIZA let end in December 2019, until April 2020. Then came the pandemic, and we brought the "GEVYRA" programme, with which we further extended the protection. We are now bringing a programme of support, which differs from all previous ones, because it is now a permanent social welfare programme, with effective and practical protection of the first home and not an extraordinary and fragmentary programme. It is a piece of legislation that offers early warning system prevention, flexibility by providing alternatives to automated extrajudicial mechanisms, care and care for vulnerable people, identification and exclusion of strategic malpractices, incorporation of all individual debt regulation tools into a single framework and a single procedure. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the Code of Conduct and Provision of Second Opportunities, this is what we are introducing today a piece of legislation that treats debtors with justice and equality, a reform legislation that manages the problem of private debt in general and consistently, focusing on the most important of all goods, the dignity of the debtor. I would therefore urge you to vote in favour of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Bisew. Mr. Charalambos (Babis) Papademitriou from New Democracy has the floor and we will then give the floor to Mr. Bubas Konstantinos from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today, Parliament is called upon to give its approval to a framework of arrangements which will enable our fellow citizens and businesses to overcome exceptional financial difficulties and not fall into the debt trap. We must vote with enthusiasm. If there is something, indeed, important in the new context, it is that the country, i.e. citizens and businesses, will have more tools than they have today to deal with the risks properly and quickly, and above all one, to lose everything and to remain submerged for five or more years. It is irresponsible, gentlemen, in the common sense, not only in our own sense, that you speak of a secret agenda for the government, when within a few weeks of your first semester you have turned the public fund that has been handed over to you positively by the Minister of Finance. In that role - he can tell you in detail - about the banks that had been put into resolution and immersed down, along with the taxpayers who had put their money, and thousands of businesses who were just getting up in a big crisis again. You say that the major crisis was the one that threw many of our fellow citizens in a state of inability to pay. We don't disagree about that, no one disagrees. You do, however, as if you don't understand that the lies with the seismic you fully adopted and repeated fully, it was the best lesson you learned from your partner, Mr. Kammenos. The overtaxation that has been registered within the DNA of the people who have ruled in the previous period, overtaxation through your memorandum and the breakdown of the banks, are the reasons why the private debt has finally led to the EUR 234 billion, which is the monster with which we must fight now. Every Member of Parliament, however, must be able to respond clearly to a moral dilemma which is set every time a favourable provision has to be passed here to some citizens vis-à-vis the rest of the citizens. Why are we giving a second and in many cases a third chance to our fellow citizens who did not pay taxes, did they not pay their funds, paid their loans, when other citizens were cornered, cornered and paid? Make a comparison between two friends, who can stay in the same building and have the same income, even EUR 800. One was paying and paying his rent, say 200 euros a month. And they both have eighty squares to live in. The other friend got a loan, not a lot, 70,000. Out there most of the cases we have to deal with are 70,000 remnants, the 400 euro dose. In the first five years, he regularly paid, thanks to some tax free payments, but which were lost with the crisis. That's right. So she appealed to justice and ten years now awaits her decision. But expecting it does not pay a instalment or a rent of course. Therefore objectively - it is nothing else, it is not a question of choice - it is best placed than its friend and roommate, on the basis of available income, which is 400 euros higher in his case. Who should we protect here in this House? Today we protect the one who in my example has a greater resource available. Of course, in court when he goes, he won't get rid of the debt. No such case exists, you admit it too. I call it back again - it has been invoked many times here, and I will say it again, it's a little funny, but it's a "cut-off" of left propaganda - the Katseli - Stathakis law. You forget that there have been four other - five very deep settings, Hatzidakis, Dendias and yours - your Chief mentioned him the other day, you don't need my ad. In any case, however, from 80% of Katseli's objective, we went back to 100% of the objective again, in 2016, with your own government, and in 2018, we went to trade value again at 100%, and we ended up over 100%, not Mr. Tsipras said so, but this is behind this regulation, which he so favourablely presented. So I come to say that we do not say the main thing. Do you want, gentlemen of the Corps, to abolish the mortgage? The mortgage, I'm removing the mortgage. Because if we go out and say that there is no transition from a state of difficulty to a state of crisis control, all you have to say here is that the mortgage should be abolished. Say it, I have no objection to discussing it. But if you say so, you have to say how much it costs and who's gonna pay for it. Because if the mortgage is abolished, you know that the banking system is not going to work again. This may be in the dreams, which you do now that you have a lot of time or you have more than you did before, but tell us to talk about it. I believe, on the contrary, that the proposed provisions are a great step forward, and although I do not have all the time I would need, I will read a part of the explanatory statement of the Katseli Act. He says: "The ability of the natural person to be relieved of his debts, of the bankruptcy of the private person, is essentially established in our country. There are a large number of examples.' It mentions the United States, which have already had long-standing arrangements, including Canada, Japan, Great Britain, Denmark since 1982, Switzerland, Norway, Sweden, Austria since 1994, the Netherlands since 1998, Germany since 1999, Belgium since 1999, France since 2003, Portugal since 2004, the Czech Republic since 2008. These are in the explanatory statement to the Act of Katseli. Since then, do we fight to create a bankruptcy law? And he said it. Luca Katseli did not fear her words, she said "a law for bankruptcy". Instead of telling us now that we are coming here to see to it that it goes bankrupt. The regulation of debts, ladies and gentlemen, is an act of liberation. The debtor of an entrepreneur recovers the freedom of business. The citizen shall ensure his or her property. The unfinished taxi are being stopped. They close the gaps in pension entitlements, and he doesn't find them in front of him when he goes to retirement, which he's been missing for years. In any case your choice is purely political and as such I can understand it. You wanted everyone to get to the elections tied backwards with the debt. You did it. But you said to the auditors, but to the voters, so you yourself are confused. Tsakalotos, trying to correct a declaration of Drasakis: “The Act of Katselis is not repealed. The only thing that can be abolished is the part concerning the protection of the first residence, "KATHMERINI" on December 1st, and because there is no Euklidis, I will submit it in the Minutes to seek and read it. Soon after that you voted for the complete abolition of the exception but that was not enough. The beginning of April 2019, to get Greece - to get you - 1 billion euros - because immediately after you spent it for electoral reasons - Mr. Tsipras and Tsakalotos have now agreed. I read: "The Greek Government has pledged that the law that succeeds the law of Katseli will be terminated at the end of the year." It is a statement by the President of the Eurogroup, Mr Stendo. Now he's president, I think, of Portugal or is to be. I submit both documents to the gentlemen to read them, so that we can get to know each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u107	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u108	I shall conclude, Mr President. You also forget that you allowed banks to sell tens of billions, thousands of loans to the funds, to create special extra-banks to manage red loans. You set up the electronic auction to sell the assets of those owed to taxi - indiscriminately if it was the first, second or third home - and, of course, the banks where it was needed. These actions weren't necessarily bad for you. I wonder why you're coming here and deny them in this easy way. I would like to ask you: do you not like the out-of-court settlement option, where the borrower is not alone against the tax or bank? Isn't it a step forward? Do you not want to have another chance to stay in their vulnerable homes with a controlled and subsidized rent? Do you not want their loan to be fully derecognised and to retain the first right to buy back at a controlled price? You don't want debts to be regulated against pension funds? Those who vote on the framework under discussion, ladies and gentlemen, will be sure that the new, additional effort we ask of the taxpayers - because they will pay - the consistent borrowers, the tenants, the suppliers who have a haircut of their claims, will support people who are in real need. They and those who will be helped by the provisions of the new framework, themselves and their children, so that there will be a second chance and a second break to the debt trap is devoted to today's parliamentary debate. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Papadimitriou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, would you excuse me very little?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u111	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. I tabled a table at the request of Mr. Loverdus. I said there's some missing data in the breakdown by regional section. Mr. Loverdos, I don't think you're gonna need him, but I'm filing an update. I have asked the AIA, and I have also received the distribution of the last sixteen thousand enterprises per regional unit, and I have also put this in. I did it for Mr. Kegeroglu, but he's not. Because Heraklion has come to have received four thousand three hundred forty-nine businesses in ten days 51.4 million euros. He's not in the Chamber, so I'm filing the table in the Minutes. In fact, the previous table is not valid because I updated it with the last allocation of funds made last week per county. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have more. Today we will also be disbursing at the end of the week for returnee III, which is why they are updated, but we do it per regional section so that each one of you knows how many resources go to the real economy per regional unit.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u113	Just by you, Minister. Just that!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u114	You ruined it. You said 'only of you' and then you said 'only of it'. Leave it first.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u115	For 2021, I don't see light!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u116	We continue with Mr. Konstantinos Boumbas from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if we were in another parliament, if we were in Scandinavia, you would have all said so, but because the Greek Solution revealed it and brought it to light, these parties are invading and, unfortunately, we are putting the party against the people - national interest in the first place. In this respect, I would like a reply from the legal world, from Mr Loverdos and from Mrs Ahtsoglou and from all the lawyers, as your Heads have been informed, and from you, Mr President, since you were a virtue. However, I will come back to this matter shortly. Now I want to start by a complaint that the Greek Solution is going to make, because here, gentlemen, you are going to be violating duty. Tomorrow, parades are forbidden, and fortunately after Mr. Heta's intervention, the Minister, Mr. Panayotopoulos, pledged to fly at least the planes. It can reach the coronary, as it arrived in the black middle ages, and the squid gets out of the air. I hope there will be flights from the planes. Last night at 12.32 o'clock - and I drive a machine - the police checked in the Constitutional Square, and we were glad to do it to implement the law. What does he say here for tomorrow? Tomorrow we are going for a motorbike that protests, says, about Kashmir, this state that is disputed by three countries India, Pakistan and China. And we're going to go into controversy? So the coroner isn't transmitting to them? Gentlemen, we're going to break duty. We'll see it in court. It is not possible tomorrow to ban parades and to allow motorbikes for Kashmir. Did you ask if these guys are from the city of Gimu or from Latah, as I read in? Because the two cities are confronted. They're like the Shia, the Sunni, the alevites, I don't know who else. That is how you will do it here too. Do you remember the law you brought for the meetings, and that's where we said he couldn't paralyse the center every three or a little? And who's the chief of police tomorrow? With the man who's illegal in Greece or who doesn't know Greek? For that is what you were saying, ladies and gentlemen, in the new convention on meetings, that the policeman should join the head. How's that gonna happen? First of all, most of them are illegal. Second, tomorrow 28th October we all get - and I have a machine - to put a Greek flag out! Why are you forbidding us? Are we going to confront India, Pakistan and China? Do we have any reason to do that? We will testify to this in the Minutes as Greek Solution and appeal to justice for violation of duty. Mr. Chrysochoid, and to the Greek Police! We cannot have a motorbike at one noon tomorrow - if possible! - the people fighting for Kashmir. Cassmiria, it's going to be history! Latoch, Jammu, this state that left it from the colony in 1947 and is in a quarrel of three nuclear countries: Pakistan, India, China. We'll testify to it in the Minutes. Look, ‘the opposition to the city dynasty is called’. That is what Thucydides once said, namely, who resists the mighty, is called a people. Did you see it, Mr. Loverdos? You're a university teacher, you're a Constitutional Law professor. You've done the dissatisfaction. You're a writer. You have written a study of political law. You have written about the country's political history. You have seen this again in the schools of judges, revealed by the Greek Solution, the judges say to the inhabited representatives - not representatives, it has the importance - of Themidas 'now you are going to go to trial, you will take the possible deceit to the subjects, that is, to the borrowers, and you will support the banks!' Mr. Tsiaras admitted it to a timely question from the Greek Solution in July and said yes, but we cannot intervene in the judiciary and said there are many other wicked borrowers. But that ad hoc individualized court will judge it. Every minister can't judge. Mr. Staruras, he's an economist, he's been in England, he's done two thousand thesis. However, I would like to say to him that in England and Wales - and good for the knowledge it has - the first residence is protected. I read, Minister: When protected, the family needs to be protected. America has two Banking Laws, 7th and 13th chapters. And do you know what the analyses say? Those who did not join the 13th chapter by 2005 have lost homes, while instead of those who joined and gave them long-term the 13th chapter of the United States Treasury to join, they actually upgraded society and thus the society of these Americans also raised sustainability rates, that is, before people died of distress. When someone loses their home, do psychology know what they say, ladies and gentlemen? He's got the same feelings as he's crying down a dear face. Mrs. Ahchioglu, you're a doctor of Labour Law. This is what I expected all parties to be placed in this. You cannot in the schools of judges, gentlemen, have a preconceived decision on the first residence, and here there is a political controversy if someone voted for Mrs Katseli's No.3869/2010, an eminent politician and economist - because it was indeed a protection net - or who voted for who. This is where you have to say clearly. Go to courts and judges order, give instruction to the new judges to take out the borrower and support the banks! And we're talking about it? We accept as Greek Solution, frankly, thousands of calls and I say that this thing does not show up! Have the courage of your opinion, the boldness, the political mildness to say it. It doesn't matter where the Greek Solution took it. This is for the Greek people! That is why I say leave the Balkans, which is where this party anchorage, independent of ideological navigation, holds us here, and take a position. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? That the Greek people are losing their trust. And you're talking about bankruptcy law? Norway, in order to avoid the economic crisis, until 1975, which in the Nordic Peninsula there was this economic crisis, extended the protection of the first residence and came out of the economic crisis. Why do the evidence say? Where the large percentage of ownership is, states support the first residence, otherwise you have a people not just taken care of with diseases, which cannot be productive for society. Imagine what the saying in favor of altars and caves says. If you lose your home, you lose everything. We said the myth of Antaios is not an accident. The 1928 Constitution, which gave hectares of land to the Greeks and passed unreservedly from feudalism to urbanisation, while throughout Europe there was blood, was a pilot. Why? Andaio's myth is not random! Listen, ladies and gentlemen, we do not go into the controversy who voted who for the Katselis Act 3869, the amendment that was made next year. Let's go support the weak. Because what did Plato say? 'Subsequently, neither the interest nor the interest of the person concerned'. We cannot have the law of the mighty, and I urge both myself and our President Kyriakos Velopoulos, all parties to take a stand. All you know is to fine the national silent slap - these initials of the National Broadcasting Council - not to mention. We'll talk, the Greek people will know, but we're pulling out parties, colors, fragrances. Take the place of all the parties, all the arc, because the law is a science that comes in everywhere but in it no one enters. But here, we have to take a stand. There can be no mandate for judges to judge for banks rather than for borrowers, and the Minister for Justice admits it too. This was done at the Court School in February 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u118	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u119	I shall conclude, Mr President. We must do this for us and our children, otherwise this Parliament will be stigmatized for the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Chakalotos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u122	I am extremely tired, Mr President, five days from ministers, MPs, to read a piece of the Eurogroup text and not to read the second part. Reading a piece of my speech and not reading what is right after. A moment ago Mr Papadimitriou read, from my own point of view, that I said: "The Katselis law is not abolished. The only thing that can be abolished would be the part concerning the protection of first residence...'. He did not have the kindness to read what he said next, that "and in this law Katseli, we are looking for alternatives that we will soon be presenting, on how to deal with this problem". Mr President, it is not right for the Greek Parliament, it is not right for our democracy, it is constantly the Members of the New Democracy and the ministers to do this. To take a speech a piece - as if it is the worst of the worst of the newspapers, which we call "yellow" these newspapers - and forget something that is immediately afterwards. Any good-looking man reading a little below will understand that firstly I say that the other part of the Katseli law remains the same, that secondly, it is vulnerable to the part of the protection of first residence, and thirdly, that I say we will bring forward proposals for this problem. Everything else is 'yellow'. And it is a pity for this House to exist in a systematic way. Thank you and submit it to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u123	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u124	Mr Papadimitriou, a clarification did to what you said, but if you want to complete or correct, here you have the floor. Mr. Papadimitri has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Far from me, the yellowing after thirty-two years of work, Mr. Chakalote. If I had more time, I'd have read this part too and would have given me a chance to ask you, why didn't you? I did not go into this category because I said to rid you of some of the accusations you apologise for these days in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u126	The subject is solved. I will now give the floor to Mr Alexandros Aylonitis from SYRIZA and then the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Karathanasopoulos, will take the floor. Mr. Aylonite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u127	After Mr Papadimitriou's catalytic response to Mr Tsakalotos, I have sincerely remained speechless. I was impressed, as Mr Lebanese has impressed me all these days. I have sat in this House for too many hours, and I have watched too many positions. I was impressed by Mr. Lebanese. Whatever arguments were said by Mr Lebanese, they took the doggy in the form of sympathy - so they call it in the army - contact immediately, the next ones. To sum up: we have put forward the motion of censure against Mr Stavoura in the course of the pandemic and national crisis, and in the pretext, because we actually wanted to rally our party in the face of the dispute between Mr Tsakalotou and Mr Tsipras. But aren't we ashamed? Aren't we ashamed to say such arguments to the Greek people? The three-day that took place and was a weekend, did the cases increase as a result of the pandemic? Has the national crisis been exacerbated by the fact that we are in Parliament, or have we prevented you from going to defend the national ideals in the Aegean Sea? So, did you see before the motion of censure and then beating on SYRIZA? Are these things to rally your world into a right which we have from the constitution and from the Rules of Procedure of Parliament? I always listened to the following words: 'no house in the hands of a banker, no house in the hands of SYRIZA for the protection of the first home'. Lies, lies, lies! If the motion of distrust by Alexis Tsipras and SYRIZA succeeded, it was precisely because for five days we forged your unjust, inhumane bill and your inhuman policy, and that is what we succeeded, because with the bumped up financial support from the media government, it is reasonable not to hear our opinion. And we didn't have our point of view. But it sounds now. It was heard in the sense that everyone would be given a chance, for one minute, to enter the channel of the House or enter the social media or, in any case, enter or enter our own media. Sounded like something. This bill is practically bankrupt by the Greek people and you have been trying for so many days to tell the people that the word bankruptcy and the word poor is a nobility title. We will walk the streets, the poor will do nothing but say: poor Stakoura, poor Auslonite, poor Tsipras, as Sir! For those who are here in the Chamber, the word bankruptcy, the word bankruptcy, which is rendered by a court order only to the traders, until today when you vote, did he pay a particular price to the trader? Let me remind you, George Mulkiotis, friend and brother, when he was making a decision by the court and declared a poor trader - until recently in 2006, if I am not mistaken - he also took political rights away from him. In other words, the state considered that it was a harmful, harmful citizen the trader who was going bankrupt. Do you want this in the conditions of a pandemic of this crisis, with 80% contraction of our economy in the tourism sector - which I have the honour of serving as a deputy sector leader - to give these people on their knees? You, with this bill, want to preach him and give him the highest honorable title of the poor. Is that the democracy you believe in? My dear, I'm sorry to raise the tone of my voice, but I can't hear so many days lying. You are claiming - we have told you so many times - that all those who these days have produced from this Step that SYRIZA, Mr Tsipras, did nothing to their government than to abolish protection. Please tell me, please, and I also refer to any lawyer in the New Democracy, any Minister to tell me: O.4346/15 what does he define? What does Law 4592/19 specify? And after all, what does L.4605/19 say? The first two extend the power of the Katseli Act and the other one determines - here I have the law - the way and the conditions that you can join, so as to protect your first residence. Why are you lying? Why are you lying? My dear ones, as I have said, I should particularly stress a very big issue, which I think defines the whole of the Greek economy. It is the area of tourism and food. A few days ago official figures indicate that our Greek tourism economy was shrinking - I said it before -80%. Thirteen million fewer arrivals. I will not go into the issues that have to do with what the reasons have been so narrowed down by the large number of arrivals and the reduction of turnover. However, I will tell you directly: In Corfu, where I come from, in the region where tourism is growing at 80% of GDP, please tell me how this law treats people who have not even done 50 days' work at the hotel, working in foodism, how will you protect the businesses that have suffered up to 90% of their turnover, so that they are pleased to tell you "thank you" that you have given them the title of "Greek incapacitated"? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much. The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party, Mr Karathanasopoulos, now has the floor. Immediately afterwards, I will give Mr. George Mulkiotis the floor from the Change Movement. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. Observed by someone who has nothing to do with the Greek reality, this five-day debate on the New Banking Code, he would think that this is where the light conflicts with the darkness, which, of course, each of you puts their place in either light or darkness. They have longed for the verbal classifications, the heightened verbal classifications, but they are trying to obscure a reality. The reality is very clear: here you have a conglomerate on the substance of the strategic choices. You agree with all the parties on the Euromoney, which is breaking people's rights, in order to shield the competitiveness and profitability of European monopolies and the period of crisis and the period of capitalist development. All of you here are, you accept, implement the choice of the urban order for geostrategic upgrading of our country, which is the other side of class anti-grass policy at the level of the economy and society, so that the business groups, the urban order of our country can take a piece of the rampage made to the peoples of the region. That is why you are increasingly involved in American imperialist planning. Hours - hours you are still over - what to say - and this politically acceptable one. Yesterday the former Prime Minister spoke about the blood of the dead fighters, when it was filled with US bases all over Greece, the "first time left", as you call it, government. It also needs a symptom when you refer to such issues. The third element that characterizes you is precisely the armouring of the system, the armour of the folk and its subversive moods. And you shield the system both in the legislative framework, criminalising fundamentally the mobilisations. The pupils, the agro-courts in the SYRIZA government, existed and operated. The suppression of workers, students and farmers with MATs is the same feature of all governments and that is exactly how things go. Let us see, however, the specific issue of overcompensation for the people's strata. We are talking about the due date and not about the private debt as a whole, Minister. Because 233,5 billion is due. The private is larger, because a service is provided. The instalment of the loans is paid. These loans are not included. So there is another debt that the private layers have both to the taxes and to the insurance funds that have settled it and is not due, but that is also a hard one for them. So the debt of private homes is much greater. And some of them, a big part of it, are due. Really, why did their debt become overdue? Who is responsible for this situation? Are there people in charge? Are you going to seek out these responsible ones? Why don't you tell them? Why don't you dare name them? Because you will name yourself. That's why you don't dare. First when did people resort to borrowing? He fled the period of the 'bulk cows' and the capitalist system, the period of capitalist development and the integration of our country into the Eurozone. In this way they tried to meet their people's needs, whether they were housing needs for people's households or needed to enable self-employed, professionals to act professionally or farmers to cultivate their land. They were not able, precisely because they were unable to meet these needs in a different way, because of the particular system that did not allow them to be otherwise. That's why they're overcharged. Or even if you want me to put on this side, the banks were after the world to get loans. Why did they do that? Because they knew they'd win from the process. Because they knew there were over-accumulated funds and wanted to get rid of the upcoming crisis. No, but they only didn't make it, but they made it even bigger. After all, it is no coincidence that the capitalist crisis of 2008-2009, the global capitalist crisis began with homologous, banking products, which have had housing loans in the United States, resulting in millions of popular families in the United States losing their homes from one day to the next. And there comes the capitalist crisis and the management of all the governments with the memoranda, which was exactly the culmination of anti-grass policy, and they lost the popular layers of 50% of their standard of living. At least 50%. And now you say that this world cannot repay its loans. But how can he be? He took them in other times. May I remind you that in 2008-2009 we were talking about the new ‘generation of EUR 750’ then? What generation are we talking about today? The 350 euros. So here is the first cause: the capitalist crisis and the policies that all of you have implemented, which have poored a very large part of the populace. And that's not all it was. The tax raid, which has been unleashed by all of you. If he put 50 billion taxes on each other, and the other 25 billion doesn't matter, because the whole counts. And all of you did it. You have all accepted it and accepted it. And today's government. That's the result. It's the result of your own policies. There cannot, in other words, be three and a half million taxpayers who owe tax for up to EUR 5,000, as she says. In other words, 87% owed to the tax office, that is, three and a half million owes only 2.5% and you do not have the courage to delete this debt of up to 5,000, to "pay it". What are they? Is it the strategic bad-payers who owe the tax office or the insurance funds? Those who owe up to EUR 15 000 are 80% of those who owe the insurance funds and only owe 15%. Are these also strategic mispaid, Mr. Minister, representatives of the other parties? So these are the reasons. You, with your policies, have led them to this weakness, in this situation, being indebted. And now you're swinging their fingers that they have to pay something, because they owe and you can't owe. Or some are also called strategic malpractices and you are acquitted of the real strategic malpractices, which, with your policies all of you have served them, the shipowners, the industrialists, the hotelmakers, the big businessmen. You've earned their loans. All governments have cut the loans to them. Restructuring of their business loans, all governments, but to the worker, the unemployed, the retired person, the frontier worker, the professional, the farmer not. You're kicking him in the shots. You're holding him a hostage. You're co-responsible. But in the solutions you also have a common component, all the solutions proposed here. Who's this common partner? To give relief to the financial system, to relieve banks of the'red' loans, to have budgetary discipline and to have a sustainability of the insurance funds. And Members of the New Democracy have said so too that they must pay the insurance funds, at the same time that the government is reducing the employers' contributions to the EBRD by 3%. What will this lead to, the sustainability of the insurance funds or the deterioration of the position of the insurance funds? In this respect, therefore, the solutions you are proposing are unpopular. They'll turn over time into hostages those they owe. Doses, doses, doses. Two hundred forty instalments, you say, for the extrajudicial compromise. It'll be 20 years hostages. One hundred and twenty doses of taxi, hostages. A hundred and twenty instalments of insurance funds, hostages again. Hosts of the state and banks want to make the world, unless you liquidate it. And it's a second chance, Minister and gentlemen of the government. From this point of view, therefore, we have continued here in the institutional framework of the previous global governments, which are fighting for the paternity of the Katselis law which had limited protection and did not prevent the situation that exists today, the exacerbation of the situation. And not only do you have a continuity in the institutional framework, but you are shielding it further: electronic auctions, a specific offence against those who were struggling to avoid making the auctions, the MATs and all these scenes we have seen. All of you, therefore, have the focus of saving the financial system, and even the proposal - and we call it - of Mera25, which can talk about banking, debt-saving, but the proposal in the 'PESH' programme is, in fact, a recapitalisation of banks to get rid of red loans to the detriment of taxpayers. That's the proposal of Mera25. So we are clearly saying that our proposal, Mr President, and I shall end - thank you very much for the tolerance - is on the reverse. We say the banks have to pay. It has to pay the capital, "hairing" the loans which the popularly indebted layers have. It has to pay the State, ‘happing’ the taxes they owe to the tax office and the insurance funds of the self-employed only. Because it is essentially the fault that the world has been driven into this situation. They have to pay and these are the real opponents of workers and people's strata. In the face of them, the struggle of the people must be organized. That's why the JRC doesn't have any delusions about this bill, that with a few small pieces it can be improved. That is why we are voting against it, and that is why we are calling for a roll-call vote in principle rather than a few articles. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr Mulkiotis has the floor, and then Mr Marcos will speak from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am afraid that our country is perhaps in the most difficult position in recent years. All these years they have been living under conditions of complete economic collapse, asphyxiary international financial control, unprecedented unemployment, extinction of the middle class, social disintegration and a problematic situation of low income classes. Unfortunately, the government is on the move with the logic of seeing and doing, according to what it has so far done, from foreign policy and economy to immigration - refugee, health, education and the labour market. Today's bill aims to implement on 1 January 2021, despite the fact that forty-eight ministerial decisions are foreseen in less than a month and a half. Here you were, and in the committees you also heard the representative of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors warning genuinely about the impossibility of applying. He clearly said that under the present conditions in the peace courts and the existing planning the bankruptcy procedure would fail. So far, we have known bankruptcy proceedings in the Multilateral Primary Court, three judges, a multi-faceted body, first instances. We're going to the peace court with a judge. Minister, do you know, really, the state of the peace court in command today? Do you know what exists? I am sure not, because if you know it, I do not understand how you are introducing such a procedure today and in these circumstances. In the midst of a pandemic, then, in this grim climate, while the country needs a modern framework for an early warning of debt regulation, restructuring of viable and rapid liquidation of unsustainable enterprises, this bill promises second opportunities, but empty content. I am sure - and you are all sure, I believe - that the government legislates without taking into account the social environment in which the laws are to be implemented. Should I refer to the extrajudicial compromise that was to date? Minister, the failure of the extrajudicial compromise today is due to the fact that the banks did not make sustainable solutions. You say in your law that banks are entitled not to submit a proposal for regulation at all. So listen to something you don't know about. All transfers of debts made by banks to various other institutions and funds are delayed because they want, when this transfer takes place, any request to be re-enacted on the platform. Let me inform everyone here that the platform is particularly hostile to the user. You dare come in, and when you come in, call me too! It is particularly hostile to the user and nobody knows about it. Can I tell you about a special fund that asks for all applications involved, extensions for acceptance or non-opening, because is it waiting for an amendment to the platform from the FIFG? That's what the fund is waiting for today. And the platform has not been set up for a year. We asked - and I did - when the amendment would be made. Answer: It can never be done. These, Minister, I denounce them and say them to the House today, take them into account, so that we do not legislate in the air and do not accept proposals that are in the air. And should I say something about the extrajudicial? So listen. Maybe the FBI and the ADC say yes, the credit institutions say no, they're permanently not. And that is not all, we reach the point from creditors who are not cooperative, because of this delay, to be executed, and we have a enforcement process, to have been divested, to be auctioned, to have already been auctioned, and there is a process of progression of the extrajudicial compromise. Why? Because there's no platform. There's a strangler today. The government does not take this into account, so we denounced it and yesterday the government and tabled a reproach, because it is ineffective in all procedures and legislation in the air. The President, who is currently in the Chair, is aware of the works and the days, what it means to go bankrupt by a very diligent primary court and how the whole process is going to go and what it means to be bankrupt today in a court of peace. Who dares, Mr President of Parliament, to go to the peace tribunal to go bankrupt? Only the creditors. Alone to the debtors. And how will this situation turn out to be? Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, about the old farmers? The Agricultural Bank, you know that home wrote mortgages, only wrote mortgages. He was getting a loan, I'm saying now, 5,000 drachmas and mortgage on the property, on the field. Do you know there are multiple mortgages? So the multiple mortgages that exist from the Agricultural Bank, today do you know where they are? They're in funds, they don't have it, they don't have it, they don't have it. Ireland or any foreign country. What about execution in these people's fields? Do we realize where we're going? In other words, are we adopting such concepts and saying and accepting that we will vote for this provision and the law, the fields of the farmers with whatever problems they have to take, at any time and, indeed, without speaking to anyone and even by electronic procedures? These, Mr President, are issues which concern us, these are issues which, unfortunately, exist and, unfortunately, we do not hear a single word. Can I tell you one more thing? What is the provision in this procedure for guarantors? Tell me, what's the provision for the guarantors? None. What are we going to vote for? These people have the right to exclude them? What are us? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] The guarantors have a problem. The sole guarantor of a business loan to a third party loses his home and this process predicts nothing, absolutely nothing. Some courts have dared by Law No.3869 to issue judgments on guarantors and appeals were brought immediately, an appeal which has not been brought before them. Understand what we are in and what we are going to do. Mr President, I conclude by saying that there are three amendments for which the Change Movement is taking a concrete position. An amendment to the privileged classification of workers in the distribution of bankruptcy property. We've filed her before. Finally, this vulnerable group called workers, the polypath, may have another luck in the classification process. It cannot have the luck, which this law gives and gives, too, earlier legislation in force. We want this amendment to be accepted by the government. Second amendment. Restoration of the protection of first residence. There is no first residence protection beyond Law 3869. You should understand that. No other protection existed. It's known to everyone. The amendments that have been made, ladies and gentlemen, have been made to the hands and not to the better. They didn't balance the situation in my hand. The situation is tragic with first residence. In practical terms, not only are the law-enforcementers, judges, lawyers, but also the theorists of this process. It's the worst situation ever. And it remains worse with these procedures and regulations. So these two amendments to the Change Movement, we want you, Minister, to accept them. If you do not accept them or if you do not want them, at least for the first time within this term of office of the government, say why you do not adopt them. Let's give you an answer at the end of the day. Say why. I conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. There is a recent amendment, today the Minister for Education has come and says 'the bill is still being discussed'. But it's not discussed. The bill on Thursday, the day before yesterday, was closed and had not even brought an amendment. And it suddenly brings an amendment with this I want, without consensus, without any other development of the procedure to impose its views. We cannot participate in such processes. In this process here, the Change Movement does not participate and denounces it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, too. Mr. Marcou is getting ready. Mr Mulkiotis, since you have referred to me, I will not, of course, go into the substance of the court's jurisdiction to bankruptcy, just to add that, since you mentioned it, the creditor does not need to go bankrupt because he has the procedure of forced execution, which is even stronger. That was parentheses, nothing else. I'm not actually in, because I'm not allowed to get in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u133	Speak politically, you will speak in court.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u134	Here, Mr Marcus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall continue the thread with the previous speaker, Mr Mulkiotis. Minister, these three days you have said a lot of things with a steep disproportionate to the difficult position you are in. I will only stand by two: you said that you will not bring any further amendments and you have brought them in. In fact, you brought an amendment from the Minister of Education, he left, which tries to legitimise the electronic vote for the service councils to teachers when the entire educational community has said that it is far from there. That's the one. The second, which is understandable to your difficult position, was that SYRIZA's motion of censure will give an opportunity to a hundred and fifty-eight Members to whistle the popular opposition. I sat down and counted: one hundred thirteen MPs were written to speak. They were written, it doesn't matter if they didn't talk. Thirty Ministers, they are MPs, they spoke about half of them. Twenty-five and thirty-five Members of the Couple, Minister, refused their support on your face, and refused because they knew they would have to deal with society and that is why they did not speak. We are now facing a crisis which is worse than a post-multiple crisis and then a national, health, economic one. Instead of solving these problems, the New Democracy Government is part of the problem. And we explain so that you don't say we're talking in vain. The national crisis, other people have said it more appropriate than I, but Chrysochoidis says, but says Gerapitris, but the Minister of Defense, but says the Vice-President of the Government, chaos, a characteristic of the problem that your policy constitutes. The health crisis, there is a refusal by the youth to obey. Why? Because you're insolent. And of course, because of the youth's nature. I am referring to an example. In Achaea, it was until two days ago at level 3 and yesterday it was level 2, while it was always on the basis of international statistics published officially less than 4% of cases. Why did Achaea enter quarantine? I am reading a small passage from your friendly newspaper "POPOPONNIS": "On Friday it is announced that the data have changed in the area and have dropped category, so the measures will only apply for two days. On Monday we will have what was in place before Thursday. But if the situation is improved, why should the recent weekend measures be applied and not cancelled?’ And ends up in your friendly newspaper, ‘If people get confused or lost, who will be responsible? These foldings do not help the state, rather they favour negativeism, very important remembrance and satire. Unfortunately, the satire has begun." And that's it? to get into the issue we are discussing, schools - coronary, from the official page of the Ministry of Education on 23/10: "Thirty-four schools are closed because of a coronary". From the official page. The students haven't figured it out. Students defend their right. Your poor policy has understood them. We are now coming to this. All this time and mainly from the crisis, and then your main argument was superior violence. There is higher violence, so we need to do things that could not be done otherwise and above all austerity. Good. Admitments to these decisions - this principle of higher violence - as if the debited citizens suffered a damage, which is like floods, hail and seeds, when they suffered a coronary financial damage. The higher violence you invoked for your decisions between 2010 and 2015. Higher violence is invoked to justify the adversariality with other states of the economy. The force majeure invokes that you abolish labour law and small business. The invoking of superior violence is used to explain the haircut in pensioners’ retrospectives. But now that higher violence is coming and destroying society and, above all, the middle layers, this higher violence which has brought about this catastrophe, you are not invoking it. On your initiative, therefore, you are overthrowing well-established legal principles of contractual law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance, because I am also one of the heartfelt speakers in yesterday's debate. We're watching you carefully. We recall that during the last year four different drafts had been released for what you would bring, which, based on the suggestions of BSE, changed one. An attempting to defend the Katseli law, because you say it was better than the SYRIZA platform of 2019, an accusing of the main residence platform that you gave it an extension for a while longer. You say that we did not extend the period, the period when you were in power, as if SYRIZA were still ruling. You say that the integration of the household into violent, rapid, instant and instant bankruptcy is better than any previous relationship. It's better, but not for the households. With today's initiative you face man as a business, in breach of the most basic social and political assumptions our culture has ever had. How's bankruptcy in a unit? He cleans her up and breaks her up. How's bankruptcy doing to a person? It clearly erases him from the social field. The whole of the previous period is two: one is if it has been bankrupt and weakened, because it has had exceptional circumstances and the other is too much exposure. There are various discussions on the latter. In the first, however, no one disagrees that they should be protected. Human culture - because you like ancient ones - and Greek culture has introduced seismicism. It was not disobedience to some absolute concept of morality. It was to rely on, to stand on her feet, society. These are written on primitive stones in marbles. Now you come and, as Orwell says, your political language is designed to make lies sound sincere and murder respected. We have heard a policy of the New Democracy saying 'Others the dwelling, the roof'. What does he want to say, a poet? At least I don't understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u136	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u137	We heard a few speakers from the New Democracy calling this monstrous liberation. This political language must not be passed. The new penal codes would have a useful contribution to reducing private debt. You changed them and changed them just to protect those who have damaged the banking system. You have memorized them. So will you do your own loans, your party loan? I'm not an economist and I think of her as an average person. Why don't you bring an arrangement with its proportionality, the same as the one you set up the New Democracy loan, which will be repaid to three generations? And get that sort of arrangement for those in debt. You don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u138	You've been in eight minutes. Please complete it very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u139	Yeah, yeah, I'm done. I'm gonna need a minute. There have been tons of pages about the specificities of the Mediterranean countries in their control of neoliberalism. In Greece, behaviours and structures that deviate from the pattern of other northern European countries are being observed. Myrrhs are unleashed by the orthodox reformists for these so-called irrational forms, lazy, inconsistent. However, what is described as unstable and fragile is only a stable functional and resilient structure. The Greek society is a solid society and is characterized by exceptional homogeneity and we have now seen it especially in the pandemic crisis, the social and family ties that have developed. End up in an orderly service and legislate dictate. Anatol Franz - the Nobelist - said that there is indeed equality, but this equality allows bankers to be able to sleep under bridges and the homeless to also sleep under bridges. You call on this equality. I fear that you will collapse at a time when the consequences will become apparent in society, but unfortunately not with pity, as the poet says, but with teddy. Thank you very much, Mr President, and tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, too. Mr. Vassilis Spanakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, following a motion of censure on the person of the Minister of Finance tabled by the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and a three-day group that has heard a lot, we are returning to this bill, which must be voted on, because it will block thousands of debtors. I am sincerely sorry that the Chief of Staff Responsibility, while tabling a motion of censure on the face of the Minister of Finance Christos Staikoura, was not in this Chamber for a minute to hear but yesterday from the Step, he criticised the Members of the New Democracy. And we answer him: Yes, we are going to criticise the four years that you have had the wheel of the country, because you have failed economic policy and now you are looking for an audience and you have made a motion of censure not to the Minister of Finance but to Euklidis Tsakalotos. Your internal and internal problems, gentlemen of SYRIZA, keep them for Kumundur. Here we are discussing serious issues relating to the Greek society and the Greek people. Because, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, solidate a modern political speech and solidate a prerogative and arguments to address the issues that we have today. I am saying this because, from you, I have not heard either a proposal for a pandemic or a proposal for a health crisis that has become a financial crisis, and I wonder - and I have asked the parliamentary representative, Mr Loverdos and colleagues from the JRC - you will vote against provisions relating to the relief of natural and legal persons. Will you vote against substantial interventions for the market? Will you vote against arrangements relating to twenty-four instalments, extensions, re-introductions, suspensions, first instalment at 31-5-2021, for a minimum payment of EUR 30? What are you going to go out to the market tomorrow, to society, to the neighborhoods, to the small and medium-sized businessman, to the neighborhood shop? What are you going to say, that you came here without any arguments and voted against simple provisions that will alleviate the market? Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, the government is actually bringing about another philosophy. For the first time in a piece of legislation there are the concepts of prevention, rebooting, the second chance. We have protection without expiry date and for everyone, as I will say in detail. We're bringing a bankruptcy code that was drafted and through a genuine public consultation. In the regulations we want to avoid bankruptcy. You did not understand that we want to avoid bankruptcy. With the appropriate tools we allow early warning, so that the necessary measures can be taken to save the company, the property. Through an electronic warning mechanism, the debtor will be able to become aware of the risk in time and refer to appropriate consultative services and solutions. Loan service centres, chambers, professional associations and other professional bodies may also be assisted. This, ladies and gentlemen, is being introduced for the first time and we must stress this. The borrowing centres are slowly unfolding with the cooperation of local government at every corner of the country, so that they can be informed as necessary and as necessary. At the same time and since, in the end, we are going to go bankrupt, we are bringing in provisions to ensure that this is done with absolute transparency. It is not a few times - it is well known and, of course, it is not a Greek phenomenon - to see former owners of bankrupt companies plundering a luxurious life in the health of the sucklers. It is a very difficult event to go bankrupt and attract many of the public, the insurance funds and the banks. However, they also maintain certain safety variations as far as workers and suppliers are concerned. In the same direction we then have the insolvency prevention process, as well as the out-of-court settlement mechanism aimed at all debtors, legal and natural persons and all creditors. Furthermore, we have the use of the procedure that they can do - be careful - and the well-informed debtors who have proved to have deteriorated their economic situation, because that is precisely what prevention means in practice. We prevent and help Greek professionals and Greek households not to go bankrupt. But even though, in the end, this is what happens, we are not punished. We are introducing the condition of bankruptcy because, ultimately, our aim is not to punish the Greek businessman, but to help the Greek businessman on the one hand through a faster, more substantial and more effective bankruptcy procedure on the other hand to get rid of a good debt and debt of the past and to make a new start. As far as the amendments are concerned, I have already said that they bring relief to the market. And you know there will be constant interventions. I would like to say, however, that we, as promised, are doing this. Exemption of professionals from the specific solidarity contribution for 2020 and respectively, exemption for private sector employees for 2021. We have an increase in the criteria for a transfer tax exemption for first residence. Will you vote against this, gentlemen of SYRIZA, too? We also have arrangements for our islands to ensure the coastline coverage of our islands. There is also an amendment to set up and organise a special coordination office for the Recovery Fund, in order to establish an appropriate framework to ensure that European mechanism money is used to best advantage. You see we bring in specific provisions. And I honestly wonder how you dare vote against these provisions. And let us not forget - and I have left it last - that this is the first time that the Greek Government has established a framework of up to two hundred and forty instalments and brings it to the House today. And you who have been here for fifty months were unable to allow debtors to regulate over twelve instalments, to criticise the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the credibility of the Greek economy does not appear in the words, it seems in practice, when today our country is borrowing at a very low interest rate, and when we are going out on the markets for the second time this year. The economy's changing, we're moving forward. And you will not deprive us of that as much as you do in this parliamentary term. That is why all Parliament's wings must vote in favour of this bill, which is a bill - cut-off, a bill that will block thousands of debtors and create a new day in the Greek economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr Papachristopoulos will now be given the floor, who will speak in the seat of Mr Katsi. Mr. Villiardos, Mr. Psychogios, Mrs. Pulou and Mr. Karagunis will then be given the floor. Here, Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u143	I think we are facing a reality that is unprecedented not only for our country, but for the whole planet. Some stereotypes have recently collapsed. We were told until recently that the liberalisation of the markets will save us, we were told that capital is what will save us and other things. And we saw in the last pandemic and in our country that those who saved the lot were some nurses, some cleaners, some doctors - who, in fact, are not paid at all - some delinquents. Those countries which, in Europe, had a good public health system, have sort of dealt with the situation, those who did not have it, the results have been seen. It would, however, be expected, after this collapse of standards and an unprecedented experience we have experienced, some to put their minds on. In other words, we would expect to see a different approach, except for the first applause and a few words. Meanwhile, because we have all seen the coffins in Italy and other countries, we are closed in. Actually, it was an experience that was unprecedented for all of us. What do we see nowadays, though, when things sort of unraveled? We see violent privatization of public goods, violent transfer of wealth from below to the strongest, violent change in working relations with or without monuments, violent secondment of rights with hard struggles, and we see violence with repression, what has been done with the fourteen years and more. I would also like to remind you that at the moment two million fellow citizens are below the poverty line. And that can't be questioned. And every day it passes, I think that number increases. And we're talking about households, not about civilians. In other words, for three or two these two millions. Also, some who do not belong to the SYRIZA area, such as the lawyers, such as the GSEW, the ETUCIZO, the U.S.H.E., the Chamber of Commerce, talk about a law - the one you are calling today to vote on - carmanila, that is, in fact, a violent one - not to say many words, they have to say too many colleagues since this morning - the liquidation of people who do not have the power. Because they owe 15,000, 20,000, they make renters, etc. You know it, you've heard it fifty times since the morning. These people lose their first residence. I do not want to insist, nor do I like the descriptions, and I want to avoid this right now. I just want to talk with evidence and remind you of a few things to get in touch with. Recently in a post in the newspaper 'AGEY' - it is already published, and that is why I will mention names - Dimitris Christos: I want to remind you that Piraeus Bank is "driving" and giving incredible sums. At the same time, in other words, a shipowner - I do not want to say his name, because he is a friend, I know him from a long time - he borrowed 130,000, 000 and he gets a haircut of 118.9 million. Another borrowed 72,000,000 from Piraeus Bank and gave him 61,5 million. Another very well-known shipowner of 200 million and giving him 165. 'They're getting late. Another family with 42 million gives her 3.8. More. Whilst, for the first-placed poor man who is in a difficult situation, something that has happened throughout Europe... The Bank of Greece - and not one of us - rightly says that from the 10 billion available from the 37 billion, the five received it and called it, such as the ELPE of Latsis, the "MOTOROIL" of Vardinoyannis, the "TITAN" of Canelopoulos, the "MYTILINEOS" etc. All the rest of the five again to your own, at the same time - I say - where the whole world knows that you are actually publishing, privatising the weaker. I'm sorry to raise the tones. I would also like to remind you that the Pissaridis development model is no different from the development model of people on the market. SYRIZA made mistakes. We're infinite. We haven't denied it. It is, however, on the right side of the hill always. He never entered a scandal. It has nothing to do with scandals. And, above all, he didn't mislead public money. I want here to remind you of something, because the serious Mr. Tsiaras makes me a great impression. What many did not succeed in legislating it a few days ago in a 'darky' night amendment. The Corruption Prosecutor, Ms. Tulupaki, is pulling her out. It incorporates it into the Financial Prosecutor and does not have the courage to say it directly. She lets her serve a few months later. I would like to remind you here - and it's worth it - how you treated yourself in justice. Salatas had a fight - to which you recently made a gift, with an amendment specific to him you made one of the eighty-six presidents - to get the forensics from Mrs Toulopakis. He didn't make it, he was collecting signatures, and he was insulting the laws. For four years you have fought today and said 'a proposal for distrust'. Yes, a proposal of distrust for all your life and state. For all of it! You have therefore succeeded in making the unthinkable judge, who has appealed to the European Courts and is discussing her case perhaps a heroine. And I would remind you that Romania did something like that in Laura Covesi, who is a prosecutor in the European Court of Justice today. Remember that many of these will turn you into "boomerang". I still want, because I don't have much time, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u144	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Your time is running out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u145	If you're kind enough to continue for a while. Either way, it's two more, it's not too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u146	Not two minutes. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u147	There was a message of independence recently and not like Mr Theodorikos' false polls, which I wish him healthy, because I had learned he was ill. There was an election campaign in the Association of Judges and Prosecutors. And there's not a thousand voters who vote as the polls on the Pecha list. There are a thousand ninety-sixteen judges and prosecutors. From the fifteen seats, Sevastidis, who made me a terrible impression of his own article that I read in the "Preservers' Newspaper" a few days ago, took the eight seats. The Lyberopoulos party, who we know who supported it, participated in by Mr Salatas, who became President of the Court of Appeals and who was not elected, took only three seats. And that's not a poll. It's a regular election campaign, with what that means.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u148	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u149	Mr President, I shall conclude and say this. A few days ago, they gathered in the courtroom, not twenty thousand, said by the police, but over forty thousand. And if there wasn't a pandemic, it would be over a hundred thousand. It was a message possible, that the sweater of falsehood, distortion of events and subjection to the few ends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Villiardus will be speaking, because there has been an extraordinary health issue of Mr. Heta, in his dual capacity, without any problem. That concludes the speeches of the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u151	What time are we gonna finish today?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u152	We still have three speakers and we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u153	They're also the secondarys of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u154	Mrs. Ahchioglu, would you use your dentology?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u155	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Villard, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Comrade, you yelled at me. Memories you see. What you signed, too, deceiving the Greeks. There's no reason to protest. You did it yourself. We will now start with a few questions to the Minister about what he said in his speech. Firstly, with regard to the increased competitiveness of the economy he has said, where is the increase due? Is it a reduction in the cost of labour per unit of product produced? Wasn't this a reduction resulting from the fall in wages? Do you really consider it a achievement - the fall in wages - to be, among other things, because of its impact on the GDP of the country? Where are investment in improving procedures, production and innovation, so as to increase our productivity and competitiveness? Isn't that the right way? Secondly, you were asked by a colleague, if I remember correctly from the SYRIZA, about where the money they entered the banks from the Eurosystem, since only one third went to the real economy. Do you think it's about buying public bond banks? How much, really, have they been made available for this reason? Is it right for the state to absorb all liquidity? Is it liberal? Thirdly, about the 36 or 37 billion-dollar pillow - if I remember well, you said 36.7 billion yesterday - is of the ESM and we cannot use them. Does the rest really include public agencies' reserves? If so, how much is it? 20 billion? But are they not already used in repos? If not, how many of these can be used? In some articles we have not mentioned what colleagues have not said are that under Article 116 et seq. of the new law, parental benefits to their children may be cancelled long before they are declared bankrupt and children may be found on the road unaware of them. So they think these children have a roof given to them by their parents and have created a family. But, suddenly and without blame, they might be on the road. Have you told them, really? Do you think it's honorable? Article 8 retains the debtor's personal data for three years after the application has been lodged, even if it has not been launched, that is, if the application has been made and has not been approved, which we at least consider to be unacceptable. Much more so since, in order to submit the application, it will have to produce all of its personal data in accordance with Article 9, which we do not consider necessary, given that creditors are given discretion not to call for regulation. An unacceptable regulation is also adopted under Article 21, one of the many existing ones, since, instead of first satisfying the workers, the public and the insurance funds, banks usually take the lead everywhere. It is also unacceptable to regulate Article 26 that creditors may continue to require money from debtors or guarantors after payment of all instalments. This also applies to the termination of bankruptcy in Article 156. Obviously the regulation should relieve everyone, namely, of the conciliators, especially when they are members of the narrow family cycle. In Article 28, which is one of the most important points in the bill, it lists the conditions for grant grants of 40% to 80%. The conditions are too many, and we object to several of them, such as the attachment of fixed assets and the condition of strictly time-consuming payments, extremely strict. Article 37 provides for further problematic provision which deprives the State of the possibility of refusing regulations - it is unprecedented - when its claims fall short of all creditors. This seems really unrealistic to anyone who has lived in a western country, in any western country, where the government always precedes it. Why did you do it? Did the banks demand it? In Article 218, which ends in the first home, the assignment of the power to recover and rent a private legal person raises issues of legality and constitutionality, while, through the management fee, there will obviously be speculation on public money. The Prime Minister if we do not make a mistake - at least that is what we heard yesterday - said the agency would be state-owned. Something changed? What's gonna happen? With regard to Article 223(1), the allowance given that they also take the house constitutes indirect support for individuals who will manage the first residences of the debtors. Something similar to the HERAKLIS project, which strengthens banks' assets, but retains the rights to houses in the event of failure. It's all over the place, the banks and sure. It cannot be presented as a reinforcement of the rent with the cover of so-called assistance to the debtors. What help when the government takes them the main home and offers them an uncertain roof? What if they can't pay? They're going down the road, like in Spain, which we're assuming will happen. Why is the 1934 American solution not adopted, which we have proposed dozens of times and it has been a success? We're not going to discover the wheel. We don't think we're doing it. There was. With regard to Article 262 he refers to his last proposal that the remuneration of insolvency managers will be covered by public resources. That is again, the state supports the banks to get the citizens' homes, and we do not see why they should not be paid out of the proceeds of at least the bankruptcy procedure. Article 264 shows that the modifications but could be photographic, for example 'FOLLI-FOLLIE', which is under special management and that they have been submitted for bankruptcy by creditors who have been rejected. Finally - Question Is Article 266 referring to loans for working capital and other credit facilities to businesses and professionals affected by the 2007 fires in the various laws we know? Some of these have been considered illegal aid by the European Commission because of their misuse or misuse and should they be repaid? Is that right? If so, the Minister must inform us here what was wrong, or if any illegality has been found, who has benefited from it, and if the administrative services are responsible. We are not going to cover the weaknesses of the control mechanism of other governments before there is a conciliation and reassurance that the procedures are no longer inconsistent, since there are similar cases of aid in progress today, as in the case of the 'Jan'. Will we conclude with this question: is it not obvious that without prospects for the economy and employment - obviously there are no, we are at the worst - any bankruptcy procedure is unfair and disastrous? And that not only should this bill not be submitted, but should seizures and auctions be suspended until the economy recovers? As for the example of another country requested by the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, it would not make any sense, since no country is in Greece's situation today nor even in the world's historical time. Finally, we want to emphasise once again that the Greek community must be supported by incentives from the state so that all six hundred thousand young people who left the country will return because of the destructive memorials that have been imposed on us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, too, Mr. Villardo. Mr. Georgios Psychogios from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to wish those colleagues who have spoken earlier. Let me begin by saying that for us, there is sufficient reason to put forward a motion of censure on this bill of censure, for this horizontal section that you bring and dismantle social cohesion, but also for another reason, in order to manifest itself in the societies through the media that have disappeared it. But for us there is a question in other aspects of your policy. The fact that hospitals have been suspended with minimal recruitment and with five thousand people less than 2019 this year. One third of the citizens pay for the coronary test. It should be prescribed immediately. In schools, we don't arm ourselves with teachers, with cleaning services, with separate spaces. There are twenty-seven children in classes with their own laws and the terror of youth who claim self-evident. Four days' booking, targeting, absenteeism and so on. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] As far as national issues are concerned, there are repetitions, contradictions, diplomatic movements that have been overcome by events. But also in the case of support for pandemic groups, the measures are inadequate in almost all social groups and, of course, the refugee impoverishment, the impoverishment of local societies, the country's report to Europe, millions of euros by signatures of poster with direct assignments. Indeed, Minister, it would be interesting to tell us what is going to happen with those refugees who came to your region by decision of the Ministry of Migration Policy, by decision of the CEDEFOP, and it seems that this commitment is not being implemented. But we are also going through some of the issues that have been heard here in the Chamber. Mr Papadimitriou - he is not in the Chamber, but I am politically speaking, not personally - asks SYRIZA if he wants to abolish the mortgage. Who says that? The New Democracy, which was coming to the Committee of Inquiry and said that they received millions of euros of air without any guarantee from the triangle banks, parties and the media, and will tell us if we want to abolish the mortgage? Secondly, they do not pay - it says - borrowers who have a temporary order by the law of Katseli on their instalments. Shame on you! The vast majority of people who have ten years of age pay their obligations because they know they will lose their home and we must respect it. It's a minimal minority that took advantage of it. Of course you're coming to dismantle Katseli's law, the pending applications next week with a decoy you're making, unthinkable things! - the basic guarantees. We'll forget what we know as lawyers. There's a rebellious legal world with this and the judges. And now you're talking about the regulation of the funds, which is the culmination. We had a hundred and twenty doses in the middle of the worst crisis in 2015 that we were fighting in Europe - then Mrs Ahtsioglu here will tell you - write off debts, retired prisoners. They went to hospitals that were uninsured. And, of course, we also have their criminalization. In 2013 and 2014, we went to the police station to get people who owed 800 euros. That's who you are! And you're talking. What about the bill? What's that supposed to mean? For the borrower - commercial property or natural person - his home is closed! It's over! In the three years it gives its creditors part of his income, as well as future claims that he has and we leave 611 euros for his life, under the irresponsible - so we value human life and survival - making him economically and socially dead, without any activity. This is for the majority of borrowers. The vulnerable households, for which you have a great deal of care and meaning, become tenants in their homes. It doesn't count anything they've given until then, and many have paid twice for their loan. It does not count what they will give in twelve years if they manage and do not delay three rents and do not evict and start from scratch afterwards to regain a loan. They will therefore lose their home 'de facto'. They remind Spain of 2013. You say that in your explanatory statement. You expressly say that. The eviction pogrom has lifted a storm of protests, plunged social cohesion and brought the left to the government. You're lying and myths, like society doesn't know or you won't understand reality in the process! “Katelis - Stathakis” protected all debts until February 2019. And what happened from there? We went to Law 4605/2019, another framework for the protection of first residence, which you requested to extend, until July 2020, because you failed to reach it by the end of 2020. Even that did not succeed in Europe, that is to say to extend the framework until the end of the year and in July 2020 the protection of first residence has ended. The GEOGRAPHY programme has nothing to do with it. It is subsidising the consistent borrowers and does not protect the first residence. No European country has done that. In no Memorandum of Greece became such a framework. Of course, SYRIZA did other things, like rent subsidies. Many young people, you know, at my age, built homes from it, that is, housing subsidies, to stay together and have a family. And now you're saying you did it too. It's ours and we owed it to society. You guys don't make any use of it. You're saying the auctions were made by SYRIZA. That's a joke. Minister, it counts for whom and whom the auctions were made. The employee who has claims from the employer and the big business will obviously auction. The farmer to the dealer who didn't pay for his production will probably auction. For people who did not pay for years and had millions of debts and many assets, an auction will also be held. There was a framework and a protection mechanism for vulnerable people as well. All your institutions have said it in detail. You were told clearly by the lawyers, GESEFE, the U.S.S.S.A. Let me not read them now. In closing, I'd say this is your conscious choice. It is no accident, in fact, that it is coming now. It is a violent winding-up and restructuring of the economy with the closure of small and medium-sized enterprises and free professionals, with the contraction of work, as they will go to workshops to seek a job of EUR 200 and 300, the people who will have shut down their businesses and, of course, the concentration of money in the hands of a few and strong ones. The five billion euros that went from the banks so far to five businesses show the way for the Recovery Fund. It is your position, your neoliberal strategy and within the hardest. But the bankruptcy code will be yours political bankruptcy. Despite your arrogance and despite the social strata you serve, you will find it in front of you. And if this is not revealed, society itself, which has knowledge, experience and struggling, and knows very well who has tried and supported the middle and popular strata in recent years, to show you that. We say, then, that we are obviously voting against the relevant bill and we will strive very hard within and outside the House to overthrow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, too. Good evening from the afternoon shift. Passing through to patients. Happy birthday to those who celebrate, such as Vice President and Dimitris Kouvelas. Happy birthday to Thessaloniki! Mrs. Panayios Poulos, Boeti, from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the pandemic, what we see is the continuous work of the health crisis, both political and communication. It is characteristic that the rate of change in the number of cases announced by the Government increases and decreases according to its communication needs. On substance, our experience with Boeotia shows that diagnostic tests are carried out only in fragmentation and do not cover needs, even in cases with recorded cases, and this, despite our uninterrupted calls for an increase in the number of tests to record the actual spread of pandemic. So while Livadea was a safe area last Monday with few cases, all of a sudden in two days is at level 3, where total lack of control at the workplace launches the virus dispersion out of control. And while you as government are exposed, you still move the finger on the citizens and speak only of individual responsibility. In our recent tour all of the health structures of Boeotia, we have recorded basic deficiencies and, above all, medical staff of the specialties necessary for their elementary operation. They cover their on-calls at basic clinics, such as pathological, through movements of general and agricultural doctors unskilled, and further malfunction of primary health. Precisely paid equipment is still untapped and the crossing up to the reference hospitals of Lamia or Attica is being increased. It is true that these units do not have MLPs and IFs, and it is a common secret that the posting of a doctor at the General Hospital of Livadea, who is not a reference hospital and confirms exactly all the above. It also mentions the refusal of medical staff to implement the Ministry of Health Directive on the local treatment of CIVID incidents. What exactly is the Health Ministry's directive? Is it not to be helped to keep the hospitals in hospitals without infrastructure? If we've reached this level, you have to confess. I wish these problems existed only in Boeotia. Unfortunately, however, they are confirmed throughout Greece and finally it turns out that no preparation has been made, because your ideological obsession is directed solely at the tradition of the National Health System to private businessmen. Ladies and gentlemen, all the majority MPs, but also some of the Ellinos Anti-Populations, spend the longest time talking about what the SYRIZA government did or didn't do, and many of us even question us the right to criticise this bill, but also, in general, almost every bill. It is a common logic of smuggling, so that there is no real debate on positions and proposals. With this logic, you who have ruled for decades with the results known for the country, should probably never speak again. You are also accusing us of the fact that while the country is facing enormous problems national, health and economic problems, we are breaking the joint effort required by putting forward a motion of censure. But you are irresponsible, ladies and gentlemen of the government, because you dismantle social cohesion, precisely by tabling this horrendous bill, which unanimously rejects all parties of opposition, but also the bodies involved in the consultation. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government, loyal to the neoliberal doctrine, leaves no crisis to go lost in the economy, social policy, labour rights, but also in matters of democracy and the rule of law, whose violations the European Commission also points out in its recent report. You have shown your most abstract and reactionary face, clearly deceiving the Greek people with your election commitments and the pandemic offers you the perfect alibi to the implementation of this policy, which has spread to society health fear, insecurity for economic survival and uncertainty in national issues. And in the midst of this situation that the citizens are experiencing, you have the courage with unreasonable cynicism to file the bill of the Ministry of Finance with the provocative title:'second chance'. Second chance for who? The shipowners and casino owners? Because as regards the banks and loans of the New Democracy and the PASOK, this is a third or fourth opportunity, the account has been lost. The second opportunity, therefore, consists in the loss of the first residence which, otherwise, as a right to the roof is also protected by our Constitution, is the loss of assets necessary for survival, it is the deception of a gulf that they will be able to recover lost property after twelve years. Who knows what future value? It is recommended to ensure customers and liquidity in the banking system, to end a truth that you do not say, the pooring of six hundred thousand households and the disappearance and pooring of 81% of small and medium-sized enterprises, professionals and farmers. Fellow colleagues of the New Democracy, you will face our fellow citizens who will be on the road, who will be affected by unemployment, who will see their lives shattered by the second wave of the economic crisis, having marginally survived the first wave that you and your policies created in 2010. Very quickly you forget the three thousand suicides, the thousands of homeless, the social complexes, in general the desperation and impoverishment in which you condemned them and forced them to go out on the streets, and today you again claim that you are giving a solution to their problems, while delivering them chained up north to the interests that are being served. And I wonder: If they don't understand your excellently processed solution and react, will you resort to your other tested solution, the suppression of MATs and tear gas? Minister, our Region, Central Greece, accounts for your catastrophic interventions over time with the services of your superiors, now accounts for the closure of LARCO, the sale of our national wealth and the bad position that will be found by the workers, but also for the whole area with a co-operator, of course, Mr. Hatzidakis. With this bill, if you do not withdraw it, you will be charged this time with a co-opportunist, Mr. Mitsotakis, the burglary of social cohesion and the poorening of the populace and middle-class all over the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u162	Thank you. We'll hang up with Mr. Konstantinos Karagunis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u163	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a lot of talk this weekend about the bill. I think too much has been explained, said, analysed. I think that both you and the President of SYRIZA, as much as you're trying to hide, can't undo a reality that's normally chasing you and that's something to do with the seizures, auctions and bank commitments that have been daily in Greece in the last four and a half years of your government, in the stone years, to get the account of July 2015. The reality is that you taxed and unleashed every economic and social class with an emphasis, of course, on the middle class, because the middle class was borne mainly by the auctions precisely because it is the class that has comparatively more ownership than anyone else. The official information we have mentioned has been presented by the Minister and by all colleagues. Refer back to the Citizen's Counselor. Look at what ELSTAT says about the 4,85 million seizures of personal accounts imposed by ADAP, and you did not hesitate to confiscate even the payroll and unemployment benefits. I would also refer you to the official ELSTAT report, where it says? We've been talking to the committees too. Those auctions were not made between 2005 and 2017, only in 2018, when you released electronic auctions. The only "achievement" of your governance, which the President of SYRIZA made yesterday, was Mr.4605/19 with whom you were doing exactly what you are going to do? The horizontal protection of first residence has come. It was the law on the infamous income criteria that Mr Chakalotos told us he would cover hundreds of thousands of borrowers and the reality of course is not that. The online platform you built finally worked on July 1st, which was supposed to have been ready since April 2019, but of course you never worked and arrived open on July 1st, that is, a week before the elections. And how many were subjected to this protection? As you also well know there was no one, no one was protected. And then when they realized to the Treasury and realized that no one goes into the platform and tried to figure out exactly what was not working, he realized that you did something that was practically non-functional. Then came and abolished the obligation to submit the burden certificate, the obligation to submit a land certificate, the form for the calculation of the movable assets and a few more weeks later changes of parametrics. And finally - take care now of what the Prime Minister was getting yesterday - how many were on this platform? About seven thousand. That's the reality, let your president know what we're talking about. So, in these circumstances, what did we do? We ensured the extension of the law until May 2020 and brought the 'GEYRA' programme with which we protected the first residence - take care - and green and red borrowers, of course, by giving 90% of the dose with state grant. Within sixty-five days they have already joined the program - notice - a hundred forty - seven thousand borrowers. I say this because you also made comparisons with numbers, seven thousand that we tried and unblocked, a hundred forty-seven thousand through the "GEOFYRA" programme brought in by the Minister of Finance. I am also listening to this two-day series of SYRIZA colleagues repeating something monotonously which is not true. What do you think? You say that for your day, there has been no single first home auction. And here it is interesting to see this, to analyse this in order to understand exactly what is happening. I'll give you things completely objectively. Mrs. Ahchioglu isn't here to answer, maybe she can hear it and come to tell us after some evidence. I am waiting really calmly and objectively for you to give me your information. First of all, we have to do something clear. There is currently no official data separating between auctions in general and first home auctions. So what do we do? We will go to what is undeniable evidence. According to ELSTAT’s official figures in the first half of 2019, there were eight thousand four hundred forty-nine auctions. As you know well after February 2019, there was no protection of the first residence, and yesterday the Prime Minister told you, brought Law 4592/19. No protection. The platform, as I said before, of Law 4605 opened on 1 July and there were almost zero applications. So I want you to explain to me, and if you can assure me, since we do not know who the first home auctions are and the protection framework was not there, from these eight thousand four hundred forty-nine auctions, where does it turn out that there were no first home auctions? I want you to come here and tell me there was this statement from the Minister responsible, there was this statement from the Prime Minister responsible and we have something official. We said, here the Minister of Finance, we committed the Association of Greek Banks and announced officially that it bans the auctioning of first home for vulnerable households by December 2020. We have something very specific and something very tangible. You had a commitment, there's a statement that says otherwise, and we don't know it? Bring her...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u164	Prove it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u165	... bring her to prove that what you're saying is not a lie. I claim, Mr Kalamatiano, that what you're saying is lies and I don't just claim it, I prove it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u166	Prove it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u167	Please, let him speak! Mrs. Ahchioglu will tell you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u168	Let Mrs Ahtsoglou and Mr. Tsakalotos come and tell us how you can officially haunt this. I am telling you something very specific: eight thousand four hundred nine and for that very reason - and I know that there have been first home auctions - because they were mostly the reports, where people reported that they were taken first home. That's where it comes from.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u169	Please! What's wrong with you? What happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u170	You mind, I get it, it's bothering you. But that's the reality. Let Mrs. Ahchioglu come and tell us. Mr. Chakalotos will be here and he'll explain exactly what happened. Well, let's get something clearer. She says Mrs Ahtsoglou and Mr Tsakalotos that this bill is our inspiration, New Democracy brought it. It is also a complete lie, because we have explained it to the committees too. You have agreed with the lenders to create a holistic shape and to unify the bankruptcy and insolvency regime, while committing to abolishing the protection of the first residence. You confirmed that - and the Prime Minister told you - three times in the enhanced surveillance reports. I'll read you the last of June, which is a month before you lose the election. ‘In the context of the second enhanced supervision report, the Greek authorities committed themselves to harmonising and improving, in an overall manner, the insolvency and insolvency regimes in the coming months’. She says Mrs Ahtsoglou: bankruptcy does not necessarily go through liquidation. Here, Mrs Ahchioglu, you must be much more responsible for what you say, because you are also legal. There are two stages in the bankruptcy procedure and all the lawyers know about it, there is a judicial and extrajudicial compromise and liquidation. If the compromise is not reached, how does bankruptcy proceed without liquidation? Well, here you lie again, prove exactly what you committed and what you did. And you committed yourself to both, both for the court and for the liquidation. So let's make it clear: And you signed them, and we committed them, and you're doing sensitivity lessons. So what do we do? And I'm closing down, Mr President, because I know I'm abusing my time. We give priority to the first pillar of the extrajudicial compromise, we oblige creditors to sit at the negotiating table, and we also bring the new, pan-European mechanism of early warning. If the first pillar does not thrive, then in the second pillar of liquidation we are protecting vulnerable households, we are subsidising their rent, people are not being plummeted on the road, as they are being thrown into Spain - and colleagues have told you - as the Podemos do and throw people on the road. The main thing is that we delete their debts, and that is the most important one. We give a real second chance for people who are completely blocked, and for insurance and taxation, and that certainly never existed in the past. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, too. 90 minutes can't make a fuss at the delays. Sit down, Mrs. Ahchioglu, to answer Mr. Karagunis because he was nervous a moment ago. So let's go to the boys. The first is Mr Arsenis from Merra 25 for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u172	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it is very clear and has been demonstrated by all the positions of the opposition parties and bodies that it is a liquidation bill what you bring. One step further for us, this is a liquidation of every Greek family. Your target is every citizen who owes more than EUR 30 000, the lenders and those who have or will inherit borrowers, almost all of us. Your goal is to liquidate the property of Greek households and that is the reality. That's what you bring. After many calls, here, from the House, from the Step by the committee or the plenary, SYRIZA pledged, for the first time, that it would abolish this bill. We welcome this commitment. We're wondering now, to go to the next step, what he proposes in place. Does he propose to securitise and transfer to the predators? Does it propose the electronic platform and the auctions? It is a very important question. We, as a PART 25, have brought together and are in public consultation the proposal for the management of red loans, the proposal for the plan 'ESTSES' - because these citizens are in a titanium struggle to reach their homes and to own them - which includes dealing with the issue as a social problem, not punishing, foreclosure and bankruptcy. The response, Minister, to the problem means to stop auctioning, to protect these citizens at the moment, until the economy is restored, is to be able to repay their loans, not to punish them, not to go bankrupt, not to confiscations, at the worst time of the economy in Greece, which is exactly what you promote with this bill, which we totally vote against and all of its articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u173	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis, and for keeping time. Mr. Villardos from the Greek Solution has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u174	Thank you very much, Mr President. I won't say much, I spoke before. I would just like to say that at some point New Democracy will have to stop ruling on the mistakes or anything else SYRIZA has done. At some point he must say that I am government, that is what I decide, that is my responsibility, and that's what I'm going to do. Continuingly saying that it is starting, for example, to sell out the networks, such as the DEDDIE and the IPTO, claiming that SYRIZA did the same as the DESFA and the IPTO, is not helping anyone. I would also like to ask the Minister to respond to this issue, may, how many bonds of the Greek public have been bought by the Greek banks so that we can understand where all this liquidity has been that came from the Eurosystem. I would also like to respond to the issue of "cushion", because we hear SYRIZA say "Why don't you use the "cushion", so that you can support the economy?" if there are indeed 20 billion of public bodies, to which they belong, if they are used in repos and if they are used in repos, so there is no other possibility. Finally, we have said in Article 116, as I mentioned earlier, that retroactive parental benefits are being cancelled. That is, when one declares bankruptcy today, the parental benefit he has made two or three years ago can be cancelled. I would like you to tell us whether it is true, because we think it is very important for people who have made these kinds of parental benefits. The last - if I wasn't mistaken, because I was here and I heard - is that the Prime Minister said that the agency, whoever takes over these properties that will be seized, etc., will be state-run, while the bill is said to be a private body. What's the matter with both of you? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, too. Mrs Konnakka has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. I think from the exhaustive debate that has taken place from Thursday to today there has been no doubt that the new bankruptcy code will actually be passed as a roller-driven over workers, self-employed farmers, from all the popular layers that you have led them to bankruptcy with the policies you have implemented, and you and the previous governments. It is a cynicism that so far we hear the Members of the House repeat, that you are giving a second chance, and even as such you are presenting it, that you can relieve all the property of all the people, the self-employed, that is, to be able to confiscate the entire property, to be able to commit his income after the bankruptcy, to be auctioned up to his first residence and present this as a second chance. Because you say that there will be no risk of debt going through the next generations and no need to renounce the property. There will not be any need to renounce it today, because there will be no sign of the property to be renounced, how much more will you say this to small self-employed farmers, when you release them, in the way you say, and of all the tools of work, their fields, etc., so how will they build this so-called'second chance'? I think we need to get down a little bit of the tons and for this whole story, the doggie that's been happening these days, about who's left the first place unprotected. Last Thursday the Piraeus Labour Center mobilised to stop auctioning at the first residence of a worker. This auction was postponed in December 2019 as well. We do not know whose framework it was that led to and left the workers unprotected, and that is certainly not the case. We are concerned that neither the previous nor the current government has made sure that it is not possible to do so. Of course, I don't want to go back on how one government builds on another and how you, if you like, gave the weapons to facilitate these kinds of situations. The position of our parliamentary representative, as well as of the previous speeches we have made in the past few days, I think they have shown what the dividing line is in the proposal that the JRC has repeatedly made to date and to the previous government on how the late private debt should really be managed for the benefit of workers and the people's units and not for the benefit of banks. We are talking about a brave cut in interest, about the interest and the abominations paid two and three times by the employees, but about getting a little tired of the capital so that they can actually survive, stand on their feet and respond to these debts that no legislative framework has yet been able to solve. Because it did not move towards alleviating the burdens that you charged with your policy on the people's layers, but moves towards how much to support the banks. I say one word, and I close it, for the amendment that the Minister for Education has put forward today. It gives us real impression when you wait four days later to bring an amendment, and indeed for a process that has been condemned by all the teachers' trade unions. In other words, the Minister for Education is coming to regulate the electronic vote on the teachers' boards, when both OLEME and the ILO have withdrawn the lists by denouncing such a procedure. We do not know exactly what the Minister will regulate when all teachers have opposed such a process. We tell you to take this amendment back. We tell you that these procedures are not going to be legalised either for teachers, who are challenging, when you do not take other measures to protect them if you want teachers and pupils in schools, to consider themselves as dangerous to public health only to carry out their elections and, of course, not to think of such a kind as to generalise this process and the rest of the unions because you will find all the workers in front of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Mrs. Konnakka. Mr. Michael Katrin from the Change Movement has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are reaching the end of a five-day exhaustive debate. And you are indeed confirming the reasons why we did not accept in May that you set up a Intergroup on this issue. Five days the parliament had been discussing this matter. Over a hundred and fifty - seventy Members were put together. That is why you did not want this debate to start as early as May, to be analytical, to be exhaustive, and how much more so with the involvement of bodies, which at random disagreed with the overwhelming majority. We agreed that there should be a reorganisation framework in the dual'structuring for sustainable - quick liquidation for non-viables'. This is not done with your bill. An unfortunate comparison was made of 3869, at a time very difficult for the country with the troika and the banks opposite, with a law now which is out of the memorandum and with the banks in favour. So it's two different things and it'll look in the course eventually which one of the two laws was more successful and had to raise more reactions. Does the bill work fast bankrupt? We believe, Minister, that we do not. We don't. It is the President of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors who says that the targets are silky and will fail your design. Did you announce the strengthening of pacifist courts so that these procedures can be quickly carried out? Oh, no. At the same time, speed up the 3869 courts. God knows what procedures will take in peacekeeping and how long they will last. You're talking about a second chance. How is there a second chance, Minister, when a banker will go bankrupt after three years and go to the bank to borrow, they will tell him that because of TELESIA he's on the blacklist and he can't get any money. Did you solve that? Oh, no. As far as early warning is concerned, it does not strengthen chambers. I'm afraid there'll be a blank letter. As to the first residence, what do we say? We restore the provisions of 3869, even protecting the agricultural property, so that the farmer can live from a piece of his property. We've filed it three times. You're not accepting it. You have not answered the question whether you will be able to carry out suspensions of first home auctions, as many people are asking you, and what will happen in the medium term to the operation of the infamous private body and how those who are able to stay as tenants in their home will be uncovered - because there is no suspension of first home auctions - i.e. whether they can stay and on what terms. Minister, there are citizens - why we need to see why we are talking here, and we are legislating for whom we are taking the decisions - who are more competent, who are more workers, perhaps even luckier, and who can certainly live with less benefits, which come from their work, whether they are persons with companies or credit institutions. On the other hand, there are citizens who are less competent, they are perhaps less hardworking and more unfortunate, who have to live with fewer problems, which come from their own mistakes, but also from objective situations. There must be a bridge between these two, a bridge between social cohesion. And citizens expect the state to intervene in terms of solidarity, justice and humanity. And this cannot be guaranteed by a credit institution, Minister - you know that very well - nor is it its role, nor has it done it to date, especially in the years of the crisis. And how will this happen when a borrower today receives a warning, which is only 30% of his monthly salary, when this man counts and remeasures them and can't get through and is forced to leave the bank obligations, why does he have to live with his family? Is that tampering? Answer us if it's tampering. Minister, you who have been elected since 2007 and are even elected to a district district, I am sure you have close contact with your electors, your friends and your compatriots. And I wonder when you see these people in Lamia, Stylida, Tithorea, Domos, Atalantine, people who have lived in a ten-year crisis and yet have managed to stand, people and professionals who have lived as you have built the five-year overtaxation from the previous government, and yet they have been able to stay alive even with many injuries, can you tell them that with this bankruptcy law will their future be better in the next few years? This, ladies and gentlemen, is a question that everyone will have to answer in this Chamber, looking at themselves, consciousness and, of course, looking at the people with whom they have gone over the years, in these unprecedented circumstances, which, unfortunately, I fear, Mr President, will force us to relive. And I think that memory is not at all pleasant. We as a Change Movement have been placed. We are ideologically, politically and of course, in all terms against the philosophy of this bill and it is clear that we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, too. Mrs. Ahchioglu from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. There has been an in-depth debate on both the bankruptcy bill and yesterday on the motion of censure with the Minister of Finance over the last three days. I do not want to repeat arguments which have been heard and things which have been answered over and over again. Yesterday, however, the speeches by Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Stakoura spoke of a number of things that were at the best of the case and of serious inaccuracies which were up to the very serious lies and some of them should be answered even at the very least I have now. The first issue concerns once again the tragic performance brought by SYRIZA to the economy and the very great progress that New Democracy makes on its days before and after - I mean before and after SYRIZA's governance - in the economy. And it makes me truly impression that Mr. Mitsotakis relied on these elements again and again, when something follows from them all, is that as New Democracy ruled in 2011-2014 he had brought an average recession of approximately 4.9%, while the Eurozone had a positive growth rate of about 0.5%, while as SYRIZA ruled there was an average positive growth rate close to 1%, while the Eurozone had 1.9% positive growth rate. So it really gives me a terrible impression now that they want to make these comparisons. We have no objection to these comparisons being made, the data is there, as long as one reads everything, not just what one thinks it suits him. The second issue concerns what happened in 2019 in the economy. I have also heard Mr Mitsotakis take on the performance of the New Democracy in 2019 in the economy, when the only contribution of the New Democracy to the economy in 2019 is the slowdown since the third quarter - the figures are there - and the integration into the pace of materialism, on a material orbit, so let me say it, from the end of 2019 and the official recession now from the beginning of 2020, long before the pandemic broke out or the imposition of measures to limit the economy. So it is impressive - and I would say - to invoke something different about what New Democracy has done in 2019 in the economy - before COVID. I heard the Minister say that the economic climate was very positive and the market psychology was very positive. But he confirms what I tell him. I do not disagree that the climate and the impressions and expectations that were cultivated by the New Democracy were positive, and that is precisely what I say that impressions and expectations have been cultivated which have been disproved and if something proves this to be GDP. It is the main indicator of growth in the country. I'm coming to the pandemic season. Repeat the lie of 24 billion, when the implementation of the budget itself shows that in the economy by the state - in the real economy, I mean state spending on business, households - have not exceeded 5 billion in the midst of a pandemic with the elements of the Ministry of Finance, with press releases from the Ministry of Finance. And the most serious issue is that, beyond the amount, I heard the government say that the measures were not just adequate, but are appropriate and correct to defend society and make me impression, have you not observed what is happening right now? Aren't you watching that household income has fallen by 4 billion? 12%? That more than thirty thousand unemployed have been created in the country? That the monthly salary has been reduced by 10%? That one out of three small and medium-sized enterprises are ready to close? That eight out of ten have reduced their turnover by 50% and you say - you really do! - that your measures are effective and socially correct and socially fair? This shows - what to say - an incomprehensible distance, a gap, in relation to social reality. And I have heard Mr Mitsotakis say that the New Democracy is the great enterprising party. He said Mr Mitsotakis - you all heard - that he covered the state's total payroll of employees throughout the pandemic period. Are we serious? Didn't you bring a job suspension? Didn't you bring an unemployment grant? A co-operation program that doesn't even be purchased by companies, didn't you bring, which reduces wages horizontally? Is it possible for the Prime Minister of the country to say that the state has fully covered the wages of the workers? Altogether? Where do we live? Where are we? In fact, the most impressive thing is that SYRIZA has put forward a proposal for full pay coverage at the start of the state pandemic and laughed, mocked. Mr Petsas said that we find 'leaves'. Let us be a little serious and let us also be ruthless in terms of work. A party which, when elected, abolishes and dismantles what is in existence and does not exist in labour law and in the protection of workers, collective agreements of employment, protection of contract workers, how will working hours be declared, how will undeclared work be protected, come and make horizontal wage reductions and speaks of a charitable spirit? Let's be a little measured on a few issues. You have come to legislate on unpaid work. Man working and not getting a paycheck. Removal of the concept of wage earner. Let there be a limit. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I hang up with the bankrupt with two words. I heard Mr. Mitsotakis say a series of false things about the bankruptcy code. He said: “The most sensitive issue is eviction and with this bill there is no eviction. The eviction is over." You're lying. Absolutely false. People who are going to make more than 7,000 euros lose their home the next day, so there are evicts, and those who are going to make less than 7,000 euros if three rents are delayed with this terrible scheme of rentals and they will be evicted. So it's completely false. Second lie. He said Mr. Mitsotakis that the special rental scheme for vulnerable persons would be made by a public body. Public body - says - will acquire the house and vulnerable citizens will rent it from a public body. But are we serious? The Prime Minister doesn't know what the bill says? Has he not observed that this is a private fund and has nothing to do with a public body? He also said, “Finally with this bill, there will be a debt relief for the debtors”. Does Mr Mitsotakis not know that the exemption is already foreseen, without bankruptcy and without people losing their first residence? Mr Mitsotakis cannot come to support these things here in this House and in a motion of censure made on the occasion of this bill and he concluded that it was a bill in favour of workers and households. I'm telling you his phrases, I'm not making interpretations. It's a bill for workers and households. This bill that liquidates everyone's assets is bankrupt by employees and pensioners for the first time in the country and dismantling the first home is in favour of workers and households! It really goes beyond any political and social logic. For our part, we are obviously voting against the entire bill and the articles of the bill on principle and of the articles, that is.. You have already observed, Minister, that you have been isolated from Parliament in this bill and that you will be isolated socially from this bill, on the basis of this law that you will be voting on today and from our side, and I repeat that if we are given the opportunity to take over governance, this law will be abolished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Mrs Ahchioglu. We will close this circle of rapporteurs with Mr. Theodoros Rousopoulos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much, Mr President. SYRIZA thinks he speaks of security, for each of us is judged by his actions. If we turn back a little, Mr President, I had the opportunity to say this in my editorial speech - and go a decade ago, when the Katseli law was made - now SYRIZA likes to call him Katselis - Statatikis to win something from what the Katselis law gave - we will find that this law, as I said in my speech, did not have an end date. In 2000, a hundred and fifty would have gone if the law were in place, he could have used it. Who comes first and puts an end date? The Act Katseli - Statatiki, as has been said. That is, in 2015, Mr. Stathakis comes and says by the end of 2018 this law will apply. By the end of 2018 everything anticipated by the law of Katseli would end. SYRIZA's second move. After passing in 2016, in 2017, and repeated statements - if you look on the internet, you will find too many of the then Minister - we will find that there is a commitment at the same time, that it will bring a holistic bill. I mean, a bill with insolvency and bankruptcy issues. This bill would come and come and come and not even come to parliament. In December 2018, Katselis - Stathaki ends and we arrive in February - we are spending about a two-month period that everyone is uncovered - and it brings about a temporary regulation, as it says in the Eurogroup communication. I will not go into what is annoying by the former Minister of State, Mr Chakaloto, but I will say that there are two paragraphs in the Eurogroup communication. The first one says your Minister was committed at the end of 2019, ending first home protection. Secondly, the Minister has promised that he will bring in a law to which matters of insolvency and bankruptcy will be referred. The first paragraph clearly mentions the concept of first residence protection. Only two concepts of insolvency and bankruptcy are mentioned in the second one. So, after all these years we have come to talk about a new law. The new law was brought by the Government of New Democracy. In political terms, Mr President, there are many ways. The two basics are the path of action and the path of impoverishment. Many SYRIZA colleagues have been disturbed because they have been criticised. But why do you have a past? And you have a government past. The criticism is brought to bear on anyone who has a government past. As you have for many years done to us and now you must accept this criticism. So in the recent past and for four and a half years he had the opportunity to bring about a law binding on us 'bads', he did not. And why, really, didn't you? Why did you expect another law of a government to come today, which in less than ten months brought him down, testified, defended him and voted for him in an hour, just to criticise him? I have told you since the first day: for you suffer from a logic of self-reportance, which is the narrow limits of action which, in the end, is not action in practice. It's rhetorical. Nice words, very nice defending all these people, our fellow human beings. And there is no one here, I believe, heartless, whoever does not understand what has happened. But, on the other hand, even better and more effective is to have put one's hand on the type of suns and to have taken not just rhetorical shapes nice and carried them in the squares and in the election discussions and TV controversies, but to make them a law of the state. I said in my first speech, Mr President, that a law is judged at three levels: from the intentions of the legislator, from the illustrating of socially sensitive reality and from its results. I'm sure of the first two. I am sure that this law will work in society. This law, which, for the first time, instead of being punished to punish a citizen, provides for how to help him, so I am sure he will have such results. I consider it very good, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that you have exercised this criticism not only in the days of the committee but also in the plenary, but also that you have made a motion of censure against the Minister for this law. Because that is the way you have achieved one thing: that this historic moment should indeed remain engraved in memory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u183	Thank you too, Mr. Russopoulou. As usual, we'll be closing down with the Minister of Finance, Mr. Christos Stakoura. Mr. Stavoura, because when I'm up here, I'm inspiring you, and you're getting away with time. You've spent a lot of time here. You have the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, I have not talked about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u185	They're marked here. You haven't spoken of the bill. You have the floor for eighteen minutes, which is your main speech. Don't get away from me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u186	Let me remind you that I have only spoken of the amendments. I wanted to hear all my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u187	If I say the times, it's not your interest. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u188	I told you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to put forward three legislative proposals. One is the change, due to the amendments which regulate other issues, under the heading of the draft law: 'Adjustment of debts and the provision of a second chance and other provisions'. Another one incorporating an observation made by Mr Loverdos. I'm tabling them for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u189	Mr. Colleague, my compatriots look into their eyes. And of course I see them often, often, and I talk to them. I'm mostly talking to the country's people. I look at them in the eye, because this government has reduced taxes, which were essential for the middle class and lower incomes. Because this government within the crisis has given the small business significant liquidity. When I gave you the paintings, the paintings relate to all of Greece. It is also about small businesses, in Fthiotida, in the areas I see you know very well and we are very happy to accommodate you. We pay special-purpose allowances to the workers. We gave inhibitions. And because I heard this too - I have heard it all during this sitting - even last Friday I was at the Lamia Labour Centre to discuss with the workers about 'Larco'. And of course I stood up to them and said my opinion, which they respect when they are with me. So I look at them in the eyes with modesty and respect. Mrs. Ahchioglu, I hear you put in the bill for 15 days. I've never heard of a proposal. 'No' at all, but none at all. I would ask you, however, if you do not want to work with Mr Chakaloto, to come to my office with your colleagues to discuss economics a little, to start learning the main economic issues. For example, you say: The implementation of the budget shows that only EUR 5 billion has been spent. First of all, I have told you that there is a central government and a general government. Each country is assessed in general government, not central government. There are therefore the bodies of the general government. Secondly: When you reduce or zero off the advance tax, this means a reduction in revenue. That's not in spending. It's in the revenues. When you reduce VAT on the catering, you have less revenue. That's in the revenues. It's not expenditure. When you suspend taxes, that's a reduced revenue. It's in the revenues. It's not expenditure. And you are still saying monotonously by the central government and not by the general government that we are giving EUR 5 billion when the European Commission has given you the whole table. You told me why we don't evaluate your proposal. Because we have told you many times that permanent measures cannot be taken. There is a letter specifically to all the finance ministers throughout Europe that the measures as long as the coronary lasts must be of a temporary nature. You in your proposal have permanent measures. Go, change it and come talk about it again. You said all of my colleagues, and indeed I respect and listened very carefully, which is why I have not put it in any way on the bill these days when we discussed the bill. My four words come to mind from what I have heard: risky, illusionous, confusion and ignorance. You told me I gave the New Democracy MPs a slap and we all said the same thing about the past. But didn't you, for example, hear Mr. Karathanasopoulos today? Didn't he tell you the same thing? Didn't you get from the Minutes yesterday the twenty-fifths of colleagues from the other parties, not from the New Democracy, who said the same thing, that you made electronic auctions on the property and that the protection of the first home was horizontally abolished? If I've been able to give a shot at the KKE, the Greek Solution, the Mera25 and the KINAL, maybe something weird is happening. The truth, however, is that you have been isolated. The reality has been illustrated by all the parties of the Greek Parliament. Because reality conflicts with your desires and eventually wins again. I heard you say today that no one has defended the draft law these days. Well, the Prime Minister didn't hear him? Eighteen minutes of his speech was about the draft law. I am not discussing how many hours, not many colleagues, and Parliamentary Representative, Mr Rusopoulos, who was the first rapporteur during the motion of censure. But did it happen the other way around? Did you hear Mr. Tsipras' speech? Did you notice her? They were more apologising for his things than criticizing the draft law. He was attacked by a position of defense, because he would have to respond to all the things that all the wings of the House have said to him. And the top one, which was "emptied" yesterday, Mr Flamouraris said: "We have never claimed that all of this is our policy. We never regarded them as our property.' I mean, he admitted you did it, but you didn't believe it. In fact, Mr Flavouraris himself came to the House to say that for what we all blame for, you did, but you did not believe it. I mean, he confirmed our allegations. You have spoken of a disgrace to Parliament. I'm sorry, but what I live today is surreal situations. There has been a motion for distrust to my face with a view to withdrawing the bill, and today we are debating, among other things, a proposal for a roll-call vote of the Vice-President for sixteen articles! For sixteen articles from the two hundred seventy. Not nominal at first. These are surreal situations. It's never happened before. Unbelievable situations, proof of self-determination for Civic Opposition. Mr. Karathanasopoulos told you. He told you that "We have made a proposal for a roll-call vote at first". The Civic Opposition, he says, has done only sixteen articles. In fact, you disagree at sixteen out of the two hundred seventeen. You did not submit an application in principle. You do not even withdraw it after yesterday's debate and the vote. And you come today to say the same thing. Today we are legislating. I'm not applying the law today. I was very clear. It will take time to implement the law. And always, as we have shown, the existing situations are taking into account. For example, these months within the pandemic there are suspensions of payment of tax obligations, suspensions of payment of loans. There is the establishment of the GFCF programme to grant loans. There is a suspension of auctions up to 31-12-2020. There is a 25% discount on doses confirmed. So let's see. There's the secondary legacy to be done. So there's time until the law is implemented. It doesn't apply tomorrow morning. I have heard Mr Pappa say today that SYRIZA has reduced the private debt, 50 billion euros over. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I heard the New Democracy brought down the recession. My colleague, Mrs Ahchioglu, in mathematics minus 0.4, minus 0.5, plus 1.3 and plus 1.6 does not mean 1 that you said, do something less. Aren't you going to do the deeds again? Let me tell you a little bit about it. Minus 0,4, minus 0,5, plus 1,3 plus 1,6. The four years, 2015 to 2018. If you do the deeds, you don't get what you said, 1%, something less goes out. If we do the corresponding actions in Europe, it comes out multiples. In short, in order not to involve mathematics, 2% of the country's GDP increased cumulatively in the SYRIZA period, when in Europe it increased cumulatively by 8.5%. So when Europe took off, Greece went back, because in 2015 and 2016 the economy returned to the recession. In 2011, Mrs Ahtsoglu, the New Democracy did not rule. In 2012 he began to rule with a trunk of the New Democracy. And I want to say to you, because you did say so yesterday in your speech, that I served that government. The evidence is minus 7.1 recession, which immediately went minus 2.7 and we delivered you plus 0.7. In two years' time - this has never been done in any country worldwide - we went from minus 7.1 to 0.7 and I am proud to have served this government with a torso of New Democracy and a participation of KINAL at that time. Two years. We're completely illusory. To keep us from forgetting, it is clear that for the first time, the country has a higher average than Europe in 2019. It was again in 2009. I've filed it three times in the Minutes. They're ELSTAT's statistics. I have heard you say - you have repeated this today - that the red loans have been'reduced for our days EUR 22 billion.' In four and a half years, 22 billion euros. It is true, but I repeat that in a year and a half we will have reduced another EUR 16.5 billion. We need to be triflesty. But what we are debating today is not who has further reduced the volume of red loans to the banks' assets. That's important. It's important, because liquidity is released to go to the real economy. What we are discussing today is private debt. The fact that a red loan is left from the banks does not mean that the citizen suddenly does not owe. He's leaving the bank and heading to the manager. That's why the volume of red loans remains the same, because in a year when they come down and the debts are added, they are no longer in the bank, they are in the manager. That's what we're going to do today. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have heard a colleague say: 'If you enter the e-actions website, you will find that there are seventy-seven thousand forty-three total auctions.' It is all the auctions that have been on the website since the first moment of operation, i.e. since 2017, when SYRIZA legislated. It's all auctions. This number includes integrated, cancelled, suspended or only posted auctions, which may have been cancelled because the debtor managed to set up with the bank. I heard you say - I will come back to this and Mr Tsipras gave it yesterday - 'Look, the private debt website says there was protection of the first residence'. You did not see - and obviously there were no attachments - that here if you press the 'first residence' button - GEYRA', you will be given the shape of any protection of the first residence. Tsipras did not say yesterday that he said here “With common ministerial decisions that were adopted in August and November 2019, the shape that existed before was improved. As of 18 November 2019, improvements have been made to the law.’ That's all he's done. And underneath there's an entire bottom-up that has for GEFYRA, it has for Katselis law, it has all the legislative poems that have been done for the private debt in Greece. Let me ask you something else. You say you protected her first residence. If someone'removed' on March 1, 2019, what was it protected? No way. Because the provisional scheme you made was only for the ‘red’ until 2018, only for specific assets and income criteria and, as I said, until the end of 2019. Therefore, if anyone "red" on March 1, 2019, was completely unprotected, and had a low income. I've been waiting so long for you to say something and you haven't said it. Let's go answer the main questions. Is there a private debt problem in Greece? It's 234 billion euros. I think we will all agree here that there is a real problem. Have initiatives been taken in the past to deal with? All wings. We tried to deal with it. Eleven legislative hurts. However, despite the successive regulatory frameworks built to deal with the problem, this has not been dealt with sufficiently. Why did they fail? They failed because there was multilaterality, there was complexity, overlapping, legislative gaps, weaknesses. You say: "But, you blame Katselis, Law No.3869/2010, that he allegedly has only strategic mispaids". It's a series of reasons. This law provided simple protection of entire property to everyone without any control, without any criterion. The evidence they have given us as the Special Secretariat of Private Debts is that 25% of the Katselis Act are strategic bad payers. I've said it before. That's the evidence we have. One in four can pay and he won't pay. The then legislator did not see to it that there would be insurance, so that they could benefit. But is that only the reason? It provided only the possibility of adjusting loans. But citizens don't only have loans, they have other debts. Thus, even if they received a regulation of their loan, they were in fact unable to serve it because of other debts they could not regulate. And let the debtors remain locked in a situation where they do not know what the final result will be. How many cases are pending? Sixty-five thousand cases are coming out. I told the Commission seventy thousand. I asked to see if there was any new evidence. Sixty-five thousand cases are pending for judgment with a jurisprudence of 2032. Law 4469/2017. SYRIZA's attempt with an extrajudicial settlement. Did it work? Sixty - three thousand four hundred businesses entered the platform, two thousand two thousand two hundred businesses regulated. I mean that they have successfully completed the process of settling debts. That failed, too. SYRIZA Law 4605/2019. This law that I said about red loans by 2018, ending at the end of 2019, limited perimeter, contradictory elements. Mr. Drasakis here had said a hundred and fifty thousand. When I went to the Ministry, I learned they're less than seventy thousand. It's about how many people got in. By the end of the day, a thousand five hundred people entered. By the end of 2019, a thousand five hundred people. So that failed, too. Conclusion: Quantitative data confirm that the legislative initiatives of the past have failed to provide an effective solution to the private debt problem. Fourth question. I've answered that to the committee too. "Are you only aware? Shouldn't you do something? A year and a half in power you are.’ And I said what we did. We first improved the program we found from SYRIZA. I have heard some colleagues say - I think I have answered to my dear colleague yesterday or yesterday - I do not remember one of the two days - that there are real commitments from the current government and my own signature for the completion of the temporary framework existing by SYRIZA. And I've signed it on the Eurogroup, it says so, current scheme. There was no framework for the protection of first residence horizontally, there was the shape of 'end of 19' - I know what I took to go four months later - and because of the coronary we took it end of July. I mean, where he was six months old, we added seven more months. That's what we did. And I have tabled it in the Minutes, because we have to be perfectly precise about what we are talking about. So we gave it up. Secondly, we have encouraged direct debtor arrangements with banks. You said the banks regulate some big ones. I have asked the banks and every month - and I want you to invite me to answer for this - a progress report on what banks and services are doing to society. It is my duty and the Greek Parliament to learn. And I've made it public. Two hundred and two thousand five hundred twenty-nine loans, i.e. 12.3 billion euros, have been settled since the New Democracy took over by May 2020 and also concerns the first residence. Two hundred thousand six hundred thirty - eight loans were arranged by the banks. Fifty-one thousand eighty-eighty-eighty loans to the demand management companies, what we call servicers. Are they made of haircuts? I had to know that, too. Eight of the ten loans made by the servicers were written off by debts. In other words, 82.5% of the debtors received a debt haircut. I put it in the Minutes, so you know exactly what happened to every Greek citizen. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have given the committee some examples. And I can, whenever you want, ask me a parliamentary question to set out examples. From a farmer in Larissa, from a first home in Tripoli, from a small- and medium-sized enterprise in Thessaloniki, from a small and medium-sized enterprise in Larissa, from a small and medium-sized enterprise in Naxos, from a small and medium-sized enterprise in Nice. I wanted to see if in these popular layers, there is help. And I gave the committee information - I don't want to abuse time, whenever you want it - about what haircuts have been done. Are we satisfied? Oh, no. The answer is that we want the banks to step up their efforts in both the arrangement of loans with non-Koronian citizens and to strengthen the liquidity of the real economy. We have set up the 'GEFTER' programme. Second initiative. For the first time, we are subsidising informed borrowers. How many people have come in? One hundred and forty-nine thousand forty-nine citizens by October 25th. Thirdly, we are bringing the bill, which will shortly be voted on. Fifth question. Why did you bring the bill without consultation? Now they're here contradictoryly. I just heard your colleague say four times that he saw the bill in consultation last year and then I heard Mr Tsipras say that 'you brought it to the mosquito'. Eight months there was consultation, bilateral meetings were held and remarks and suggestions were taken. I gave full information yesterday about when the Special Secretariat of Private Debt has seen each body since March and April - not to repeat it, to save time, but I said it yesterday in my speech - from the Chambers of Commerce, the Chamber of Crafts and to anyone else you can imagine. So there was extensive consultation. The bill's in the House. Fourteen days we've been talking about it. You asked for another meeting. You asked all operators to listen to them. We've heard them all. We have incorporated comments. You have read the report from the Scientific Office of the Parliament. I haven't seen a better report on a bill of hundreds of seventy articles. Therefore, compliance with these procedures is dismantling some of the cause that we are legislating on mosquitoes. Sixth question. What are the innovations of the bill in titles? No one has said so but the government's majority. For the first time, a preventive mechanism is introduced. All individual debt adjustment instruments shall be integrated into a single framework and a single procedure. The debtors who prove themselves find themselves in financial difficulty or weakness have the possibility of making a new start. An integrated and automated framework for dealing with insolvency is being introduced through an electronic platform - New Democracy colleagues have rightly said - in two hundred forty instalments, that is to say, up to twenty years. There are permanent social policy provisions for borrowers belonging to vulnerable social groups. Undertakings may resort to the resolution process following and in application of the Community directive and specific checks and cross-checks are carried out in order to avoid the use of tools by strategic malpractices. Seventh question. Is the protection of first residence finally abolished? I won't repeat it. It is repealed horizontally in February 2019. What do we do? We are coming - as I have told you - and we are making a permanent social protection policy for vulnerable households, a permanent programme that has no duration, no deadline. We provide a comprehensive solution to the problem of overcompensation in two forty instalments. We have a state grant for loans from the first home of vulnerable households for five years. I didn't hear any of the Qualified Opposition saying that, but they went straight to the final stage. There are many other stages to reach the final stage. Full deletion of debts to persons unable to repay debts and a number of other provisions. I have heard from three SYRIZA colleagues about the case of a farmer. Of course, all examples do not indicate what is going on today, but they potentially indicate what can be done in the future. With the current legislative framework in the example of Mr SYRIZA's colleague for the farmer, the farmer is faced with seizures and after he has lost his property, including the real estate from which he makes a living, he continues to owe and can never move. With the bill brought by the Government, the New Democracy Government has, on the one hand, the ability to regulate its debts with its creditors and to protect its assets through the extrajudicial and, on the other hand, in the event that its debt is unsustainable, it has the real potential to make a new start by exempting it from the debts. In any case, it should be recalled that the machinery necessary for continuing his profession, as well as his agricultural subsidies, are occupied by the irresponsible. I also heard because of the age - because it was the debate we had - that we had a forty-seven-year-old with a wage of 2 000 at the time of the loan, which is then a wage reduction. Mr. Vitch said so. What's going on today? Today this hirer comes up against a confiscation of his bank account. In the rest, beyond the inconvenience, his residence in the auction goes out, i.e. he loses his home - as a result of SYRIZA's policies - and continues to owe his creditors. With the new law, he has the opportunity to find a solution with his creditors through the extrajudicial procedure, and if he cannot in any way serve his debt, he is relieved of it by liquidation. And if the reduction of his income is such that he can be part of the socially vulnerable group, he can contact the Acquisition and Rehabilitation Agency so that he can stay at home and have the possibility of buying it back, if he is on his feet, otherwise with SYRIZA he would lose the house. Eighth question. Why are you bankrupt with natural persons? I heard it today. I've answered. First of all, the Katseli Act, which contained the bankruptcy of natural persons. The main point is that the Community Directive, European Directive 1023/2019, says that natural persons may go bankrupt and even urges the Member States to do so: 'The Member States are recommended to start applying the provisions of the exemption from debts and consumers as soon as possible'. Why? To allow natural persons to be relieved of their debts. That is the aim of the European directive, and that is the objective of the draft law which we shortly expect to be the law of the State. Ninth question. Why are you going to go bankrupt and liquidate everything? Well, I think I've answered that too many times. All Members have told you that it is exactly the opposite. What's the matter today? Today, if a debtor does not pay his debts, his creditors are seizing and auctioning. Thousands of seizures, in fact millions of seizures and thousands of auctions have been made in previous years. And after they have taken his entire property from his first residence, since there is no protection, then the citizen continues to owe it. That's what we're going to avoid. Tenth question: Is there a question of moral danger with the draft law? No, because there is full transparency to detect strategic misappropriations, not because everyone who is in financial difficulty or incapable of getting a regulation on their debts is given the opportunity to do so, no, because there are electronic and rapid procedures that prevent delays and abuses through unnecessary judicial actions, so there are security differences to prevent abuses from being circumvented. Eleventh question: For me it is one of the most important and I would like to hear it from some of the opposition. I'm sorry, but I didn't hear it from anyone. "Would you finally do something with the consistent borrowers?" At some point in this country we also need to help consistency, and this government, the New Democracy Government, has already demonstrated that it is helping consistency. To date, all bills for the management of debts or for any over-period protection of first homes contain provisions for red borrowers and rightly for those who really need them. For the conscientious? For the first time in our country, the current government has introduced the reward for consistent borrowers with the "GEYRA" programme, where we are subsidising the first home loans of all borrowers affected by the health crisis. We have introduced a 90% subsidy of the monthly instalment of loans with mortgage attachment to the first residence of the consequent borrowers. So, here we are, first initiative that we have legislated and implemented to reward consistency. We also need to help the consistent borrowers. And I didn't hear any of the Opposition talking about these people who are struggling to get through, they don't owe, I mean they are consistent with their obligations, in that sense I say they don't owe and nobody spoke of their opposition. We have legislated and legislated again today. In the new draft law, I also see the grant of first home loans for the consistent borrowers, as long as they are vulnerable households. In addition, the consequent debtors may also join the out-of-court settlement mechanism and settle their debts in up to two hundred forty instalments if they demonstrate that they have suffered a significant reduction in their repayment capacity. Therefore, this government, the New Democracy Government twice legislates to help borrowers as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u190	Mr. Catarini, please. They're quite interesting. They are interested in all the people, which is why I give the Minister so much time to speak. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u191	I'm answering what I heard. Twelfth: 'What are you going to do with strategic malpractices'? The biggest issue of previous bills - and I said it - was circumvention and exploitation. I will repeat that according to the information received by the Special Secretariat of the Private Debt - and I would like to thank the Special Secretary, Mr Kourmossi, who remained in his post and continued a job initiated by the previous government, by SYRIZA, because there is a follow-up here, to thank him for the hard work and his partners all these months. According to data, therefore, we collected 25% of the Katseli Act as strategic bad payers, and that was because there were no deterrent measures. There is now an important effort made by the co-legislative ministries - I am introducing something that I have heard from a colleague who is not now in the Chamber for another bill of the Ministry of Justice - to clarify the scope of strategic malpractices, with the creation of a new electronic platform to which the information of all those who have been subject to Law 3869/2010 is expected to be updated and the case pending. This will address weaknesses in existing laws and speed up the trial of all outstanding cases within 2021 by exploiting technology. The distinction between vulnerable and non-substantiated households and, most importantly, the strategic poor payers will be made. As far as the draft law under discussion is concerned, we are establishing the lifting of tax and banking confidentiality so that the strategic poor payers cannot hide behind the law, as in the past. This allows creditors - public and private - to carry out property disclosure checks both in Greece and abroad in forty countries. In addition, we conduct automatic checks and cross-checks so that the strategic malpractices are detected and excluded from all procedures. Deletion of debts shall be decided by a competent judge who shall examine all relevant evidence provided by the public and private creditors and decide whether the debtor has acted on a dollar or not. Third: ‘Are there debtors who rescue their first residence without paying’? There's no speech I don't say that. I have heard it from Mr Papadimitriou too - and he has done well - because we are sorry here, but we are also destroying the common sense that exists to date. I hear: 'They'll take their homes away'. But you know very well, but you do not say it publicly, that in all laws from 2010 until today, any protection, small, larger - has changed over the years - it is provided because the debtor pays his debt for the first residence. If you don't pay, you don't save your house. In fact, as the years passed, this became more unfavourable. In 2010, the debtor was asked to pay 80% of the objective value, in 2016 100% of the objective value, in 2018 100% of the commercial value, in 2019, 120% of the commercial value of the first home. Therefore, in all laws the debtor is called upon to pay to rescue his first residence. I heard: 'If something happens and income is lost by a citizen, can it do something'? Reply: In the event of a personal or family adverse change in the debtor's financial situation, the relevant adjustment is already provided for in the Civil Code, Article 388. The debtor will submit to its creditors the evidence of the unfavourable change that has occurred and will request adjustment of the debt arrangement so that they can now respond to the new economic data. However, the arrangements should be sustainable. I heard: “Why end the Code of Conduct for Banks? Why are you exempting the banks from its obligation to implement it’? Commenting on whether the banks are positive or not, I think you have understood it both in the committee and in the publications and from the letters I have received and mentioned to you many times. But let me stay at this point. Reply: If a debtor starts the process of the Code of Conduct and at some point the procedure is not completed, he is applying to the new ex-court mechanism, then only then the code of conduct is frozen. If a solution is found to the debts through the extrajudicial mechanism, then the Code of Conduct no longer needs to be continued. However, if a debt solution is not found, then the debtor can continue the process of the Code of Conduct from the point where he had been frozen. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is economically effective, because it responds definitively to the question of private debt. It is socially sensitive, taking special provisions for truly vulnerable citizens. It is operational because it offers a second opportunity for citizens through simple and rapid processes. It is national development because it forms appropriate conditions to drastically reduce the high accumulated private debt, contributing to the strengthening of liquidity in the real economy. And it is institutionally compatible because it incorporates the recent forecasts of the European directive of 2019. In the end, it is a consistent, realistic and innovative draft law, a draft law aimed at addressing, in terms - I will repeat - economic efficiency and social justice, the great economic and social problem of overcompensation for citizens, a draft law which demonstrates that the government has the political will to solve the problem. And as long as we look into the future with boldness and realism, we leave opposition awkwardly and irresponsiblely in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u192	Thank you too, Minister. I will give the floor for thirty seconds to Mrs Ahtsioglu on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u193	There is no chance at all that I will use time for political matters, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Stavoura, we have political disagreements, we will have and will develop them even in the way we read and the evidence. I would ask you, however - and I would ask you, in fact - to come to my office to teach you five economic words, not to me. And it would be a good thing for a colleague here not to use them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u194	No one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u195	And no one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u196	They are positions that are preconceived, especially when you distort what I say, and especially when I have a minister in front of me, who is recommending bankruptcy law and whoever seems not to know what bankruptcy is. But I never thought to say to him, "Come on in my office to teach you five legal things." [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[TO PAGE 334A]] I would therefore ask you - and I would ask you, in fact - for our confrontation to remain at a political level of respect for the opponent and for it to be treated as equal. I hope that we will follow that direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u197	I think the Minister is in such a mood. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u198	My colleague, I have shown all these years that I respect. What I told you is, come to my office with your partners, to inform you of all these economic issues. And as far as what I was going to say in here, in here I said 'to teach economic lessons'. In the office I said, "Come with your colleagues to get full information". And as you know very well, since the first moment you took over, I have told you that I and my colleagues have been at your disposal to the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance, to inform you - like all the parties - of what you want, for whatever you want. After all, I have proved to a number of colleagues in the Anti-Population Officers who come to my office that my door is open in order to inform them of anything they want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, too. That's how I want things to go. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is adjourned: 'Consolidating debts and providing a second chance and other provisions'. We are entering the vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law, and they will be voted on separately. A request has been made for a roll-call vote on Articles 76, 77, 92, 100, 103, 137, 176, 198, 217, 218, 219, 220, 221, 222, and 268 of the draft law by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u200	A request has also been made for a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 16, 75, 77, 86, 102, 137, 167, 176, 217, 218, 219, 220, 221, 222, 263 and 268 of the draft law by Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u201	Finally, a request has been made for a roll-call vote on the principle of the draft law by Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u202	As there are three requests for roll-call vote, I will not read out the list of signatory Members for them because, given the special circumstances, we consider that there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for them. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Do you accept the three votes in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u204	The House agrees. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where the roll-call vote will take place in principle and on Articles 16, 75, 76, 77, 86, 92, 100, 102, 103, 137, 167, 176, 198, 217, 218, 219, 220, 221, 222, 263 and 268 of the draft law. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill and twenty-two articles. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest you have to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure you have voted for all twenty-three areas included in the vote. The vote begins. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters and faxes (fax) colleagues have been sent to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House and the decision of the Conference of Presidents on Thursday 24 September 2020, with which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the count which will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u206	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 298 Members voted. The principle of the draft law: In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. 'Commerce' voted no one. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. Article 16, as amended: In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. 'Commerce' voted no one. Article 16 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 75, as amended: In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. 'Commerce' voted no one. Article 75 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 76, as amended: In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. 'Commerce' voted no one. Article 76 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 77, as amended: In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. 'Commerce' voted no one. Article 77 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 86, as amended: In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. 'Commerce' voted no one. Article 86 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 92, as amended: In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. 'Commerce' voted no one. Article 92 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 100, as amended: In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. 'Commerce' voted no one. Article 100 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 102 shall read as follows: In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. 'Commerce' voted no one. Article 102 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 103 reads as follows: In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. 'Commerce' voted no one. Article 103 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 137, as amended: In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. 'Commerce' voted no one. Article 137 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 167, as amended: In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. 'Commerce' voted no one. Article 167 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 176, as amended: In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. 'Commerce' voted no one. Article 176 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 197 reads as follows: In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. 'Commerce' voted no one. Article 197 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 198 reads as follows: In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. 'Commerce' voted no one. Article 198 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 217, as amended: In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. 'Commerce' voted no one. Article 217 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 218 reads as follows: In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. 'Commerce' voted no one. Article 218 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 219 reads as follows: In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. 'Commerce' voted no one. Article 219 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 220 reads as follows: In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. 'Commerce' voted no one. Article 220 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 221 reads as follows: In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. 'Commerce' voted no one. Article 221 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 222 in reads: In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. 'Commerce' voted no one. Article 222 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 263 as amended: In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. 'Commerce' voted no one. Article 263 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 268, as amended: In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. 'Commerce' voted no one. Article 268 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u208	At the end of the roll-call vote, we proceed to vote on the remaining articles and amendments to the bill. The rapporteurs and the special speakers are asked to submit to the Bureau - as they did - documents with their votes on the other articles, amendments, the farewell article and the entire bill in order to be included in Parliament's official minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u209	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adjustment of debts and the provision of a second chance and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u210	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u211	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S1-commons.u212	With the consent of this House at 18: 20 the sitting is closed for today, Monday, 26 October 2020 at 18:30, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
