ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering today's agenda I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Wednesday 1 July 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 875/29-6-2020 by MP B1' North Athens Department of New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kourides to the Minister of Citizen Protection, entitled "The need for better policing in the Municipality of Agia Paraskevi and more generally". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 858/26-6-2020 of the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, Mr Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The consequences of the social resurgence of the NW Government are real". 3. The question by No 873/29-6-2020 of the Member of the Ilias Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: 'The economic consequences for the fruit growers and potato producers of Elias because of the koroni pandemic'. 4. The 855/26-6-2020 topical question by MP Serres of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boumbas to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: “Urgently the recruitment of personal guards in the Nigrita penitentiary shop”. 5. Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Without appropriate specific study, the environmental crime continues in the port of Piraeus". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 876/29-6-2020 by Mr Maximou Charakopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: ‘'Previous' financing by ELGA of EUR 1.8 million.' 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 877/29-6-2020 by MP Evia of the Radical Left Coalition Evangelos Apostolos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: ‘Expansion of the financing of the Agricultural Development Programme (PAA) 2014-2020 to newly-trained organic farming’. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 6367/11-5-2020 asked by MP Rodopi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Dimitrios (Takis) Haritou to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Is it your intention to promote the reopening of the 'SHELMAN' industry in BIPE Kototini?' Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Statement of microfinance, financial sector arrangements and other provisions'. In today's sitting, as we had heard last week, the articles and amendments of the bill will be discussed as one section. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. When it comes to speaking time, I would like to remind you that eight colleagues who have not been able to speak on the first day of discussion of the bill will precede the list, speaking in principle and on the articles, for eight minutes, as will the others. I'm just saying it because they're not on the list, so you don't have to ask yourself about what's going on. Wholesale, with a relative elasticity in times, we've calculated that we're going between 20 a.m. and 22 a.m. The calculation of 20 a.m. to 22.00 is due to the small elasticity I mentioned. We are starting with the rapporteur from New Democracy Mr Salma. Mr. Salma, come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, will the speakers not speak at first?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u4	Oh, no. The speakers will speak as soon as the list of speakers begins. The meeting begins, as the first one started.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u5	In the first place?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u6	The articles. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the second plenary session to discuss the draft law, which outlines and describes the framework for granting microfinances and which provides for financial regulation and some other provisions of the Ministry of Finance. As I pointed out in the debate on the principle, this draft law is a good practice. It is a draft law that shows the way for, when creative dialogue is taking place in the House in draft laws that show the follow-up of the state and when the government hears and does not have second thoughts, a draft law, which also makes it possible to support the parties of the Great Opposition, can be formed. Therefore, I will very quickly describe the provisions of the draft law. The draft law describes the procedure for the authorisation and operation of microfinance institutions, which are not other than institutions that will in principle be established as public limited companies, as corrected, in the form of other capital companies and social liability companies. They will be certified by the Bank of Greece. They will have EUR 250,000 funds, which will be deposited with financial institutions, and other such amounts equal to them, so that they can give small loans, small credits to a category of people, citizens, entrepreneurs, natural, legal persons or people who still want to study. They will be given money of up to EUR 25 000 to use them in the crisis, in such a way that they can re-start their businesses or start smaller businesses or make the costs of training they need. So, in this draft law, the procedures for how this institutional reform will be carried out are described. We said that the microfinance he describes is up to EUR 25,000. We all know that the banks have avoided giving these amounts, because they have had a great deal of security. They were given as consumer loans for many decades. It is very difficult for citizens who have no real guarantees or who are outside the borrowing assessment system to be able to obtain loans. The draft law therefore concerns microfinance up to EUR 25 000. The microfinance foundation is this legal person, based in Greece, who is licensed, as described below in this draft law. It concerns very small entities, natural persons, legal persons, professionals or even companies of social responsibility that can take loans and vulnerable social groups. It is in accordance with the European Code of Good Practice and the granting of microcredits. It happens in several countries, such as France, Italy and other countries of Europe. This draft law does not apply to credit institutions as defined in point 1 of paragraph 1 of Article 4(1) of the European Union Regulation, i.e. it does not apply to banks, nor to leasing companies, nor to corporate claims agencies, nor to credit companies referred to in Article 153 n. Date of birth: (a) 4266/2014. It is defined as the Bank of Greece as a competent authority responsible for the authorisation and supervision of these micro-credit institutions. This procedure and the implementation of the audit of the Bank of Greece shall be carried out by an act of the Executive Board. By decision of the Bank of Greece, individual issues related to this process may be discussed and developed. The authorisation, as we have said before, is granted if the Bank of Greece finds three conditions, namely that the microfinance institution can fully comply with the provisions of this Regulation, that the information and supporting documents accompanying the application meet all the requirements of the present and that the evaluation committee has a positive effect. It is stated that within three months of receipt of the request, the Bank of Greece has to answer whether it accepts or rejects the request and within four months it is required to issue the licence if the answer is positive. The original chapter we said was 250,000. It was amended after the initial provision of the draft law to 400,000. It is a very detailed description of what should accompany an application for authorisation of such a microfinance institution, in particular, it is the company's draft statute, i.e. the identity of the two members of the board of directors. We had made an observation here as to whether all the members of the companies would be controlled and the Minister kept this debate up to now. Let's see what he's going to say about it. They must be clearly described: the organisational structure and branches, the business plan, the whole organisational framework. It is also possible to withdraw the licence, when eight reasons are met, described in detail in the draft law, such as whether it obtained the licence by false declarations, if it has not made use of the licence within 12 months of the date on which the licence was issued, or whether it is still used as a means of money laundering from criminal activities. These are some of the reasons why the licence may be withdrawn. A register of microfinance institutions shall be established, which shall be kept on the official website of the Bank of Greece. The annual and consolidated accounts of the microfinance institutions shall be audited by accountants or audit firms and kept monthly by these institutions up-to-date all the data. A sanctions code is provided for. In addition, activities, i.e. how these microfinance institutions can be provided, are envisaged. Indicatively, they can finance all types of credit up to 25 000, either to cover investment needs or to start-up capital. This money cannot be used as a guarantee to get loans from large banks. They can use them to acquire equipment, as they can still be vulnerable social groups to use them to strengthen public policies, to use them for educational reasons. It is planned how these institutions will be advertised, and that there is also an obligation on these institutions to provide advisory support or even if they cannot provide it, to give outsourcing, i.e. to cooperate with companies specializing in consultancy services. The terms of the beneficiary's agreement with such a microcredit institution shall be described. The repayment period may not be less than 12 months, but not more than 12 years and if there is an early repayment, it is laid down in detail and it will be sufficiently determined by the Bank of Greece what the penalty should be - so to speak - that the beneficiary will pay an institution. These are exempted from fees and contributions, there is a very clear description and the obligation of transparency in terms of transactions and contracts arises. Because one thing concerned all the wings, that we are happy that we have such a draft law and such a framework for society, since the thirteen bodies that came to the Committee on Social Affairs have all agreed. So it was a panacea, society wants it. But we have an obligation to ensure - and I say this again - that these should not be used as taboo institutions. In two or three years' time, we must not come here and be ashamed that we have left them uncontrollablely evolving at very high interest rates and that the beneficiaries will again commit themselves to a process that we well-meaningly created. That is why we have asked for a ceiling to be set at the interest rate, but in order to be legally able to fix it, the Minister accepted our proposal, to authorize the relevant Minister for Finance to set an interest rate ceiling when necessary. Very quickly, I would like to say that this draft law also has some very important provisions, such as the fulfilment of a permanent request from local government, regions and municipalities, not to pay these contributions, which they have paid for years in all their loans. There's the prediction that someone who has his car still can take it off and pay for those months he's using it, which is what's happening with the ships. Therefore, it will be able to get it out of the still and pay twelfths, as well as provisions for extending the 2020 non-inclusion into the ENPIA of agricultural parcels. If necessary, we'll fill in. I do not think we will say anything else, because for all this draft law the debate has been conducted with very high quality, with constructive proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u8	Good, thank you. Mr Charalambos, rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are at the end of an interesting parliamentary procedure in terms of voting on the draft law on microfinance - micro-credits. As you know, in principle, SYRIZA is voting in favour of today's bill. However, we must express many aspects, spectators and unscrupulous ones, which relate to the substance of the articles now, which I would like further to analyse. The adoption, however, of an institutional framework for regulating this private lending is an initiative taken by the previous government at the time when the New Democracy considered it unholy any thought of bypassing the banking system to cover the private sector's financial deficit for small and medium-sized enterprises. In circumstances, however, this initiative could provide some responses to the liquidity deficit of small and medium-sized enterprises and to the need for funds to be found to support newly entrepreneurial entrepreneurship. In fact, on behalf of SYRIZA, the interventions so far relate to and are based on three pillars. First and foremost pillars are the armouring of this new institution by abused practices, where possible, money laundering. The second pillar is to extend the scope of potential beneficiaries to reflect all the potential of these potential beneficiaries of small and medium-sized enterprises from newly created enterprises to social and solidarity economic operators, even for young farmers. A third pillar - as important - is the extension of the possibility of establishing these microfinance institutions by reducing the threshold for establishing new institutions, extending their potential legal forms, but above all - here I would like to emphasise - the possibility of local production subjects such as local authorities so that individual chambers can participate in the shareholder composition of these bodies. To date, therefore, the government has shown its willingness to reach agreement and to incorporate the proposals we have put forward, and I believe that it honours the institutional role of all of us. We maintain our disagreements with some of the government's key choices, such as, for example, the delegation of supervision of the new sector, exclusively to the Bank of Greece. I refer to Article 4. We continue to disagree, not only about the fact that the Bank of Greece is the only supervisory authority of these new institutions, but also because the law refers to many points in the management of the Bank of Greece, to take central decisions on how to implement this institutional framework. For example, Article 12 refers to decisions by the Bank's administration to identify sanctions for the violators of this law, which we consider to be negative. In this regard, Article 19 does not, as it should have been, include the supervisory fees for the Bank of Greece, which is a source of clear precariousness, in relation to the final cost of loans to microfinance. Finally, we insist that, at least, consumer protection could have been entrusted to another competent body by the Bank of Greece, such as our own competent body, the General Secretariat of Trade and Consumers. Let me briefly mention some points of criticism and the other articles, which may not relate to the core of philosophy, which is the purpose of the bill, but are in fact heterogeneous. Article 30 refers to the taxation of retroactive pensions. We believe that the existing regulation does not solve the problem. More problems and ambiguity we consider it to be causing both the administration and the managers rather than solving problems. In fact, I would also like to refer to question 47 of SYRIZA colleagues a month ago about a similar issue that concerns us. We didn't have a reply. On the contrary, we had this piece of legislation. I believe that there is also a proper procedure deficit here. Article 31 concerning the mutual responsibility of legal persons, as formulated, does not shield the public from cases of manifest tax evasion. In Article 35, although the regulation on the ENPI is in a positive direction, we believe that taxpayers should be treated differently, depending on the size and extent of their agricultural parcels. Finally, for Articles 39 and 40 in relation to the undertaking by public bodies, we have received no convincing response to the committees, and indeed to extensive dialogues on why this well-established practice is being circumvented in public administration. It would be reasonable for there to be an individual exception, particularly in the exceptional circumstances and abrupt, sudden changes, which are taking place, especially in the middle of a pandemic, when the ministries' budget is being implemented. The horizontal nature of the regulation, however, creates many questions, which you have not even tried to answer, despite all the reasonable questions that we have put to you. Let me also refer to the pension billboard, so that we can see one on one side. I'll make a diagonal approach and report. In 4, as we mentioned, we will vote'residents' because there is the question of the Bank of Greece. We have a clear question about administrative measures and sanctions. The fact that no law sanctions are included in Article 12 is particularly problematic. For 15 years, Minister, we believe that social solidarity economies have finally been integrated with your current legislative corrections, so they will have been substantially entangled in Article 15, which I must say is a matter of key importance to us. As for 17, we will move to'residences' due to the removal of the detailed description of the activities, as well as to Article 19, which relates to the exemptions for fees and contributions, due to the non-incorporation of supervisory fees - I mentioned it before - on the Bank of Greece's side. I think that a great deal of mention has been made of advertising and the marketing of microfinance. General Secretariat of Trade and Consumers: I think that its presence is unreasonable, because it also shields the supervisory part, but also the part of intervention, which we may need. Article 30 is an issue which has also been raised. We believe that it does not solve problems, that it creates problems more and that there is a wider precarious situation in the area of pensioners. There are also interventions from the single network of pensioners on this issue. What we want to keep as a central picture is the process followed by this bill. In fact, if I am not mistaken, Mr President, it must be the longest and most difficult process of producing legislative work, given the circumstances. Three weeks ago the procedure began in committee, and I think the time has run out on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Perhaps this is also a symbolism, if you wish, that when there is a continuation in the state and responsibility from all sides, a good result can be produced, provided that - it is very critical - that the heresy that governs this process be observed, namely that there is a real and honest mood of consensus, a real and honest mood to go further. This is the central and institutional role of Officer Opposition, especially in matters relating to bills, which are her own children, because, as you know, this bill had also been issued in public. It wasn't just an idea and some sketches. It was a painful effort of years that began, matured, reached a certain point and we think that sequence and continuity are our moral political duty. So, in conclusion, I think that SYRIZA will also vote in favour of the bill at first, but it still maintains this legitimate criticism of the points I have mentioned above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Mamulaki. The reason is the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrinis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the small and medium-sized enterprises bill, with the majority of small and medium-sized enterprises still out of liquidity, with the tools announced by the government, but also the recession to reach a two-digit rate, according to the Bank of Greece's estimates. The Change Movement, which is stable at its beginning, actively supports small and medium-sized enterprises, by voting in favour of this bill at first, and is doing so, because by making a calm assessment of the data so far, microfinances are perhaps the only source of liquidity for over 70% of enterprises, together with the repayable advance, which we have requested to extend by a billion euros and, I am glad to hear, Minister, that the Government, following repeated calls, both ours and - above all - of the market, is considering doing so. Be sure that we will not hesitate and welcome and support it, because we, ladies and gentlemen, as a Change Movement, have decided to make constructive criticisms with proposals, to contribute positively to solving problems and not disagree, by shouting or pluralising. One such example is the proposed second amendment to strengthen the supervisory role of the Bank of Greece, which we and the Bank of Greece have asked for and something that, in our view, shields the credibility of an innovative institution, which is now established in the country. We have asked you to provide as an essential condition for granting the licence the application to the European Code of Good Practice for granting microcredits. We are reintroducing this and we invite you to adopt it. You insist that companies certified outside the country be allowed to act for two years without any control. How many and what are these companies? What if, after two years, the applications are rejected, they will be submitted? What will the consequences for borrowers be? You were right to include the social and solidarity economic operators in the micro-credit beneficiaries, as requested by almost all of Parliament's wings. But that, Minister, is not enough. These bodies, after certification, must also be able to grant micro-credits to promote innovation and solidarity, which would be in line with the aim of the draft law and in line with the nature and role of the ESCIPs, the KOSPEs, as well as the other social and solidarity economic actors. In the right direction is the provision for determining the interest rate, but there should also be a similar provision for the type of guarantee, but also for the maximum rate, which may reach, as a percentage, of the total amount of financing. Gentlemen of the Government, you regulate with a second extension the contracts of temporary staff in privileged structures. As far as we're concerned, the extension seems a one-way road, not to find helpless elderly people, people with chronic illnesses, abused children, but also our vulnerable fellow citizens. How, though, can it be that the proper functioning of the privileged structures depend only on temporary staff? We support this extension, but we are criticising the government's frustration over this entire period. This is an inexperience, which is unfortunately also found in the definition of professions, which will be evaluated as heavy and unhealthy. When we asked you for an amendment to include these workers in the National Health System, EKAB, the National Social Care System, the "Help at Home" and all the privileged structures, you refused, telling us that you would consider the matter in a committee set up for this reason. Today, two months after your third refusal to an amendment to the Change Movement, not only have you decided not to include battle protagonists in the fight against pandemic in the category of heavy and unhealthy, but you are switching any decision on the unknown future and you are sure that they are seeing and evaluating you for that. At a time when everyone knows that online gambling has blossomed during the pandemic period, you are making it easier for gaming companies, reducing the amount they have to pay this year to get permission. In your decision to ask for four instead of two instalments - this is the decision you are bringing to the amendment, which you are baptising a time-lag in the report of the General Accounting Office, but Mr Stagiras does not endorse it in his report - you are deducting more than EUR 15 million for 2020, that is to say, amounts that the thirteen companies, who have applied for, should pay to obtain the permission in question. What will the pensioners think, ladies and gentlemen, when they see that in the same bill, which you are making it easier for gaming companies, denying revenues of EUR 15 million this year, are you insisting on taxing them at a rate of 20% for retrospectives that they received three years late? To collect, then, how much, Minister? Questions are therefore being raised about both the legality and the feasibility of the provision for pensioners. The Change Movement has in good time requested exemption from these unjust burdens and what the government said in the debate on the principle of corrective intervention is inadequate if there is no full exemption from these charges. Ladies and gentlemen, while the primary sector is facing serious problems, due to the consequences of the coronary pandemic, the government is announcing a suspension of the trade fee and simply suspending and not abolishing, as we have repeatedly requested, the additional EMI tax on agricultural parcels. It is right to extend the possibility of lending farmers and farmers without any insurance information. It's something that's necessary. But should this also be extended to professionals who suffer the consequences of the crisis? The extension of cheques for tourist businesses should also include in October in the calculation period of 50% of the annual turnover, because then most companies are paid and recorded revenues. So, if you really want to help them, they should be included in the calculation period in October. Of course, this measure should also be extended to other sectors linked to tourism, such as suppliers of tourism, whose costs and obligations are running, but without any corresponding facilitation. Apart from granting insurance and tax information, in order not to disturb the operation, but also the activity in the Hellenic Defence Systems, a comprehensive resolution and development plan is needed to keep the company playing the catalytic role both in the defence and in the economy of the country. The resolution plan, agreed with the European Commission before 2015 and abandoned, needs to go now. Our reservations about the banking system's attitude to the principle, as well as our question, Mr Minister, about the great anxiety of the government over the remuneration of fund managers participating in the HERAKLIS loan securitisations. Why do you not maintain the obligation to prepare an economic situation for the subsidiary in Article 27? You are legislating provisions which facilitate the banking system in order to support the economy of the country, but without the banking system facilitating entrepreneurship at this very critical time. Moreover, it cannot be accidentally noticed by the Governor of the Bank of Greece about the policy of forecasting, followed by the banks, given the major challenges they have to face. Ladies and gentlemen, the micro-credit bill is a positive step towards strengthening the liquidity of micro-enterprises and micro-enterprises. But, on the one hand, it must be implemented quickly and, on the other, it must not remain a fragmentary measure, but rather become part of an integrated strategy for the development and support of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Small and medium-sized enterprises, which despite falling by 48% in the decade of the crisis, currently account for 97.4% of the country's businesses and employs 62% of the workforce. This integrated strategy seems to be absent from the government and this, I think, is also clear in the National Development Plan, which is in consultation with professional operators' forecasts to be described as extremely sloppy. Let us hope that today's inertia succeeds in a global proposal for the world of the market, so that within two months what has been kept up for more than ten years of crisis has not been broken down. Because I think, ladies and gentlemen, that this will be a defeat in the political system as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Emmanuel Synthrakis, the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. From the whole debate in committees and in plenary on the bill on micro-credit for micro-credit to micro-enterprises and vulnerable social groups, it seemed clear that the self-employed, small-professionals, craftsmen and merchants are invited together with the workers and poor farmers to reinstate the burdens of the new capitalist crisis, with new tax revenues, new bankruptcies, confiscations and countless lists. On the one hand, exceptional measures and acts of legislation, hunger, poverty, unemployment on the part of workers, debt and financial obligations of self-employed and poor farmers, rigorous collective measures by means of electronic auctions, which are neither exceeded by partial suspension of deadlines for tax liability, the fund, banks nor the crumbs of micro-loans in terms of turboconies, which will tighten them up further in their neck and, on the other, a billion-dollar dance for groups in tourism, transport, energy, construction, banks, guarantees, incentives and tax exemptions, funds through the ESDP, cheap loans, job subsidy, in order to reduce losses and subsequently regain the profitability of capital at the lowest possible cost. And in this direction, of course, - as the government says - the opposition - a state, a private sector, as they say, to serve precisely these objectives. On the one hand, we have children who faint from hunger, such as the little girl of the unemployed seasonal tourism in Rhodes, and on the other hand, the laundry meals of capitalists. For the people to forget who and why they brought him to the edge of despair, poverty, daily stress of survival, the lack of access to medical care and the education of their children, the uncertainty and insecurity of the new generation, here, New Democracy and SYRIZA, are being muddled about who of the two has less or more scandals in their assets, pretending, without any sign of shame, the innocent doves, just to disorient the people. The sewer's cap open again and emerging boots and stench, full of scandals, corruption, legalisation of semesters, “NOVARTIS” fiasco, protected witnesses, with or without hood, comrades and advertising gifts in canalarchs. Telephone conversations revealing selective relationships of civil servants with business groups. In time and lately with the restrictive measures on the part of the Government here in Parliament, the JRC tabled proposals for legislation, amendments, a package of measures, mainly aimed at the relief and survival of the people. Of all of you, an absolutely deafening silence. You've swallowed your tongue. In this draft law we tabled an amendment to reintroduce the reduced rate of VAT to the islands, a request for absolute fairness. A measure to reduce the consequences of large transport costs and other adverse factors, which have made it difficult and made life difficult for islanders. That is why the JRC will insist and take the lead in the struggles, but also in the legislative initiatives for a reduced rate of VAT on the whole Aegean islands. From this point of view, we invite you to take a position. The Minister is obliged to take a stand on this amendment - we have tabled it not late, but from the outset - as the other parties are obliged to take a stand on this amendment. We have also tabled an amendment to another bill for the protection of workers in Larco. Proposal for a law on heavy and unhealthy health. We have tabled an amendment to state advertising to stop State money flowing as gifts to canalarchs. For ten years we have been putting forward proposals for a law on overdue households on several occasions. For the employees, for the self-employed, for the small UEFA, for the poor farmers and for the retired. To stop the auctions, the raisins, the EVIA and much more. You've all thrown these in the disposable basket. But when it is to malleable you guys, to raise the dust of disorientation, then you all become popular. We ask: Is it enough to pay EUR 800 for for forty-five days to meet the needs of the self-employed and small professionals? Their business costs, when they continue to run? Suffice the short-term suspension of their tax and insurance obligations, when they know well that the next day of the pandemic will have to deal with a new Golgotha of old and new regulations? Is it enough for the micro-credits of up to EUR 25,000, which, among other things, will put them in new trouble, just to invest companies, which will grant these micro-credits to unravel the NRP and find a way out of their funds, which they are ponding? You're fighting about the amount of interest. You disagree with what micro-loans granters are called, whether they are called a parallel banking system, a parallel financing or a parallel credit extension. Funny things, when the draft law itself says that these companies will operate under banking rules. On the one hand, the official sculpture for the self-employed and, on the other, the banks - the guardian of business groups. No matter where you catch it, it stinks. Around they dance billions about Group liquidity and on the other hand, as Mr Drasakis said the other day, the tools for self-employed people do not work, he says, correctly and we need to fill the institutional gap, sowing the illusion that capitalism can become more human and fight its distortions. We are also making proposals to you on several occasions for new emergency financial support measures, demanding that the new burdens should not be transferred to the backs of the self-employed, the small VDIs, such as their immediate reintegration into the duty-free limit of EUR 12 000, the abolition of the trade fee, the HIPI, so that the suspension of tax obligations can have an impact on you. Their exemption from individual insurance contributions, without loss of pension rights, for no auctioning and no confiscation, no measures of forced collection to the public, banks, CECs and individuals. These are the few measures that need to be taken for the current and tomorrow's survival of self-employed people. Which one of you has spoken of all this here? Nobody. You've been quiet. Of course, in your social contract, they do not have a place, which is why the self-employed, the small EBRs, must not have delusional or reduced requirements that we all have to put back together, that is to say they must pay themselves again to overcome the capitalist crisis. The struggle with flags of workers' needs and not the bazaar with the strengths of capitalist profitability is that it can actually put brakes on the caterpillar and create the conditions for organising the counter-attack. The problem and the risk of total bankruptcy, greater poverty, the hunger of auctions are all the ones that will eventually wake the people. That is why the government brings the bill - an abortion to limit the demonstrations, a draft law of inspiration, a firm and time-consuming desire of business groups. A bill that bans and restricts any popular mobilisation that seeks to slander it and criminalize it, a project of state terrorism, authoritarianism and repression, to put popular consciences on the plaster. The people will, of course, cancel it in practice, such as similar measures that have been attempted in the past. The life that our people deserve to live is won by confrontation with the policy of shielding the profitability of monopolies, with the conflict with power and the state. That is what you are afraid of, because today our people have the potential to live better, as long as they get out of the middle of those who deprive them of this wealth they produce. And that's what it will do. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u14	The reason is the special speaker from the Greek Solution, Mr. Vassiliou Villardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will begin our introduction to articles with the main reasons why we voted against the draft law in principle as a Greek solution. These reasons are as follows: First, despite our objections, the State Secretary did not set a ceiling on the loan rate, saying that in Europe it is between 15% and 25%, and the Minister of Finance can set it later on on by his own decision. We have, of course, tabled our own proposal at a rate of much less than 11%, where at an interest rate of 11% the monthly instalment for a loan of EUR 25 000 is of the order of EUR 350, while the final amount after ten years is set at EUR 42 000, noting that the actual interest rate in Greece will be even higher in reality, since deflation, which was already at 1.1% in the first quarter, should be added. Apart from the fact that the unemployed and the other groups, of course, will not be able to pay such doses, it seems that the government legalizes to the tumultery, since this leads to the possibility of imposing interest rates, according to the appropriate way. So we repeat that it is about legitimising toddlerism, which will lead to dozens of suicides, as has happened in the past in India, but also in the United States of America, after 2008, following the financial crisis. If nothing else, a limit should be placed in respect of interest paid. In other words, interest should not exceed 40% of the capital - namely EUR 10,000 - on the date of their repayment after ten years, depending of course, on loans of less than EUR 25 000, because otherwise, this will be purely speculative. In addition to that, it is unacceptable that the condition adopted by Article 17 should be reimbursable, that is to say, in one to ten years' time with no possibility of repayment. As far as the lack of collateral is concerned, we all know how the loan sharks receive their money. So, it's just for people's eyes. The problem of TIERISIA has also been mentioned in particular in a country where half of its population is written in its 'black' tables. Secondly, it cannot be allowed to borrow illegal immigrants, as is the case with Article 15, which we will submit in the Minutes, when they have made a request for asylum and even before they are approved, how much more so when they have no financial rationale, since if the request is not approved, the illegal person will leave the country, obviously failing to pay his debts. Mr Voloudakis of the New Democracy also pointed out the problem, as did the others that we referred to in our first introduction. However, the lack of economic rationale leads, unfortunately, to other conclusions, especially since the bill comes at a time when the support programmes for illegal immigrants, such as the 'ESTIA' programme, expire. In simple terms, it seems to be helping to support them supposedly by lending through those agencies that promote illegal immigration, since no reasonable investor would thereby risk his money. The possibility for these small banks to lend at zero interest rates, but to charge advisory services under Article 16 refers to Islamic banking, which may not be as innocent as the bill, especially at a time when Greece is threatened by the settlement of the Muslim populations at Turkey's command and not only. It is interesting, however, to change the name of the NGOs to the OPIOPs, to civil society organisations, as the abbreviation of the OPIOP is analysed, in accordance with an article that we will present in the Minutes. It reminds us of the rename of the troika in institutions, not to mention the citizens, despite the fact that this is exactly the same thing. The third is leverage without limits, when at least SYRIZA in his own bill provided for up to five times. In this way, each small bank will be able to operate sharply, i.e. lend multiples of money in relation to its deposited capital. For example, it will be able to lend EUR 25 000, to put the loan as a guarantee by collecting EUR 25 000 and lending it again, which means that with a capital of EUR 25 000 it will be able to lend million in the form of a known pyramid. So the market will be uncontrolled with terrible consequences for our economy, when these kinds of pyramids collapse, which will certainly cause great social unrest. And fourthly, we objected to their supervision by the Bank of Greece, when in other favoured countries the control is carried out by a state agency or by any one, while the Bank of Greece does not belong to the State. The Undersecretary claimed that the Bank of Greece is the only body that has the necessary answer - how, of course, it is impossible to convince us, since if it did, the banks would not go bankrupt by already costing more than 60 billion people, while it would cost even more. The fact that he will not charge costs for supervision is completely abnormal. So something else's behind it. In addition, if the Bank of Greece actually had the knows-how, banks would not be left alone or the next large robbery of the Greeks would be launched by the HERAKLIS project and by the long down that Eurobank started, and all three other big "sisters" will certainly follow. It is outrageous that while they took 25 billion from the European Central Bank, according to what the President of their union told us, and promised them even more than the European Central Bank, a total of 38 billion euros, according to reports, do not at all lend the Greek economy, unless the state guarantees 80% of their loans and their debtors deposit the remaining 20%. So we're talking about zero risk. At the same time, they charge very high commissions, while having twice as much interest rates as the other countries of the European Union providing less and worse services, as we have substantiated with the calculations we have submitted when we were addressing the question to the Minister of Development. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Further, according to articles that we will be tabling in the Minutes, mobile telephony companies that charge 150% more fees to Greeks than the average of the European Union, are planning to create micro-banks that have already submitted applications. Is that true? Will they use the network of their stores? Won't it look like a parallel banking system? Who will control them with their power? Finally, the lack of an electronic platform 'peer to Peer' and some other things we have mentioned in the committees are errors which should not exist, to substantiate whether or not the government's usual sluggishness. With regard to two, three articles which we have not been able to discuss in committee, we would like to say that: in Article 17 will institutions be able to ask for guarantees? The question is when and from whom to demand it. For some people it'll be tires for others, too, won't it? Moreover, people desperately can be exploited, and we must not forget the many cases of extortion of immigrants from criminal matters through this very way. Will third-party guarantors be able to enter? What responsibilities will these guarantors have? The original text mentioned something about annoying security that was deleted. So there's annoying security? The responsible statement on the maximum amount of microfinance is difficult to observe, as is the exchange of information. However, it is a negative provision in paragraph 5, which provides for a burden on those who wish to discount the funding they receive before the end of the year. In Article 18, in relation to the original text, the obligation to use bank accounts for transactions has been removed, so that the area is fully independent of the banks. Will it be possible to use both natural and electronic currencies? If they also have natural currencies, should they set up cash registers and a vault, such as banks? Finally, in Article 19, these institutions are exempt from fees and contributions of 0.6% of Law 128/1975. What's the cost for the economy? There is no quantification from the General Accounting Office of the State. It is unjust, of course, the illegal contribution of the article that has been imposed over the years. So it has to be phased out with all the loans and especially the red ones. In this respect, we have asked without a reply, if the contribution is actually attributed to the public, and also, if so, where and how it is included in the budget. We are therefore waiting for an answer today, hoping that the Minister will not refuse us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u16	Merra25's special speaker, Mr. Arsenis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Parliamentarians and MPs, Mr. Undersecretary, this bill is a profound taco-sylvia bill. I do not know who really has been involved in writing it, but it is clear that there are specific interests in demanding it. It is clear that these interests, as the market is heard, are e-game companies and pawn shops. So refuse to treat toddlers. This bill was even worse. You're allowing the uncontrolled entry of organised crime. You took them back into the ground because you were even denounced by the Bank of Greece. In particular, I would remind you of what a representative of the Bank of Greece had said at the hearing of the bodies: we will have no picture of where the company's money comes from, who is behind it. No shareholder rating. I am sorry, Mrs Papayannidou said that at the hearing, I imagine that the Bank of Greece's consultation with the Government had been completed on these provisions, and I imagine that you had been asked for them and you had refused them. Integration of suspects into the market denounces the Bank of Greece, which we will not be able to reverse. That is what you have finally tabled with your amendment. The question is: Why are you not limiting all of the things you describe that allows to be cut off? It's funny that the minister can set a interest rate. And I am impressed by the fact that opposition parties support this tachypology. I would specifically like to hear an answer from SYRIZA, how it is possible to accept the absence of a maximum interest rate with international experience to say that we have overcharges, but also the Greek experience with the abusive charges and that SYRIZA is also content with the existence of the possibility that the Minister, if he considers that a maximum interest rate should be set. Mr. Undersecretary, you said you couldn't define anything better. We with our lawyers have seen all case law and legislation and have tabled an amendment. We have tabled an amendment which does not describe what we would like to see, describes what the courts and the laws of the state say. Is it illegal or not to have an interest rate above the Bank of Greece's bank interest rate and why do you not set it in this bill? Does the law say that it is taboo to exist outside the Bank of Greece's bank interest rate and that it must not exceed 2% of the margin for default interest? We would like there to be no such limit, because we are talking about vulnerable groups, what you say you will lend consumer loans. But at least we give you the case law. Because if you do not even accept these proposals, then I am sorry, but there is no shame. It is also forbidden - that is what case-law says, and that is what we are bringing in our amendment - the reorganisation of other charges. That's not even forbidden. You're not banning anatomy, not even late interest. For the contribution of 128 1975, we are calling for a ban on what is defined by the courts, on the transfer to the consumer, on the citizen. You, not only, do not prohibit the transfer, you exclude banks from having an obligation to make contributions to municipalities, regions and their legal entities. The banks are excluded, because the transfer is illegal and these revenues will be lost from the state budget. We have brought an amendment based on the case-law that abolishes all this and we invite you to accept it if it is not your official policy or the taculty through this bill. We have the creation of clear new banks that will give consumer loans to the most vulnerable citizens without protection, without any conditions prohibiting abusive provisions, even though you aim precisely at these citizens who will have the greatest inability to control abuses. We will also support the amendment to reduce VAT on the islands, an amendment which we have also twice tabled to your Ministry's bills and, unfortunately, it is still rejected today in this deep economic crisis, which, with tourism, is almost exclusively active, is deeply affected and requires all kinds of aid. You say that you want to strengthen liquidity and at the same time bring 'HRAKLE'. I imagine you found the name "HERAKLIS" to clear Augya's crust. But, judging by what the "HRAKLIS" predicts, what you consider to be the son of Aygia is the citizens who live in their homes. Why should we understand, Mr. Undersecretary? Did you make a modulation, but if it bothers you, do you abolish the law of HARAKLE, the one for red loans, who does what? In the midst of the crisis, in the midst of "Home We", it makes people stay homeless, leads to a seizure of the red and non-red loans of the homes of the people who have these loans and after you take their homes, at this time when the economy is so low and the prices will be so low, you will give 12 billion to these funds. At some point we would like to know and who the shareholders of these funds are. We want you to give 12 billion to the real economy, with capital for small and medium-sized enterprises, with a drastic reduction in taxes and insurance contributions. This is the sport that needs to be done right now. Unfortunately, such a sport does not serve the great business state-owned families of our country, the ones you want to serve with this loan-government bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u18	We shall proceed as follows: Greek President Velopoulos has asked for the floor. Then the Deputy Minister, George Zavvos, will take the floor, and then we will enter the list of speakers. Here, Mr. Velopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was just talking to Mr Russopoulos - a chosen friend from the old - and I was asked how the market was going. I don't know how many of you are on the market. Things are dramatic in the economy. Clearly it is not the government's fault that the three-month precipitation of the economy in relation to the coronary, a global phenomenon. The government's fault is, however, that it has not taken measures specifically, not only, Minister, to relieve the already charged Greek companies for a decade from the crisis. It has not taken a real measure in the right direction for the development of wealth production. It is a management concept of the New Democracy, as all governments have done, to manage economic policy at all times on paper. There is no greater crime than managing economic policy on the basis of the paper you have in front of you, whether it is called creative accounting on Simitis, or it is called accounting on GDP and its deficit. And I start because I am afraid from September - just before the report or shortly after the report - we will have dramatic developments in the economy and not only in the economy, but also in society as a whole. We had 300% increases in influx of illegal immigrants compared with 2019 in the second half of 2020. We have the escalation of Turkish claims and not challenges. I wonder. And only Andrew Lover pointed it out. I saw him in SKAI and I heard him with my ears. Let us stop the story, especially in the media, from talking about Turkish challenges. It's claims - you said it right - that we should not mock anyone in here. It is a claim to ask for Greek land, air, sea, Crete, the Aegean. It's not a challenge. We have confused concepts and terms, perhaps because the media want to cultivate migraineism in national matters. We have a decrease in growth rate in the fourth quarter of 2019 in 1% of 2.3%. You know, I started this way, Minister, because what you're bringing is a bill, which you would like to achieve some things. We have our objections and they are essential. We've been filing them last week. Mr. Villards told them. But I have to tell you this. I ask you and the New Democracy: The EUR 10.8 billion that we will have a deficit from tourism, where will you get it from? We have reservations for July, August minimum, September - October few. You tell me as a government how to find 10.8 billion euros. In other words, it is over 60% to 70% of the reduction in tourism. You have truly built, Minister, you are new, of course, you are not one of the old - an economic model that is wrong with the provision of services. I remember Andreas Papandreou, who spoke and said this twenty- thirty years ago, that we will make the Greek waiter in Europe. So you built the economy with a tourism industry that really is a "industrial" which, with the slightest exogenous factor, is rocking, perhaps crumbling and proved by the pandemic, perhaps by a tension with another country neighbouring, Turkey, without creating conditions for wealth production. I insist on two words: production of wealth. And you come now, my Minister, and you give 25,000 euros to a guy who came, made an asylum application, and we don't know who he is. Their names are like "Messo the Sue". They're called Ibrahim, they're called Hussein, they're called Ahmet, they're called Mahmet, Mahmoud, and some papers they don't have, they're applying for asylum. And you give him the opportunity of this man to get 25,000 euros cash, cash. And if the asylum is rejected, what's going to happen? Will he return them back? Say that Mahmoud Ahma Badar rejects his asylum, doesn't get asylum. The 25,000 what happened? Don't you see the money for God's sake? You tell me. And, of course, all this is happening while Greek companies are not being borrowed, as they should be distributed. And the proof, my Minister, I'll tell you who it is. I have the report that states that one out of two claims to set up first home loans is rejected. Of the fourteen thousand, ninety-sixteen, only two thousand, seventeen, were accepted by the banks, and at some point Mr Stournaras, whom you voted once again, must put one order so that we do not hear Adonis begging the bankers. It is the definition of policy - to say this directly - that the Minister should ask the banks to be tolerable. The banks that took over 70 billion from the Greek people! Please beg the Minister, the citizen's work, the bank, while he has already given money, to be tolerant. Christ and God bless you! This is not happening sincerely in countries which would like to respect the citizen, democracy and, above all, the government of the country. Who's running the place at last? The banks? Say it. The interconnectors, the channels, the shipowners? Who governs Greece? What about you, and the minister beg the bankers? We now go to other mistakes you make, because we have a particular obsession with the agricultural sector. Codes 037 and 038 for professional farmers in tax declarations are not pre-paid. The farmers will lose their tax-free allowances and, thankfully, you have listened to us with the trade fee and withdrew it last week. But they lose duty-free, and there are a number of requests that I will record in another speech in relation to farmers. But I have another question and that is how to show it: do you see that, ladies and gentlemen? It's China honey. And what's the name of China's honey? "Merma, honey of flowers" - circulates in tons in Greek supermarkets - which is from glucose. It says honey, but it's glucose. There's no control. Nothing. No one controls anything. When the Greek beekeeping, the best in the world - the most quality honey we have - we do not protect it, the Greek economy will never get started, never the production will move. We have reached the point where the Greek Informatics Association will report to us - a complaint, my Minister, and I want your Government to be serious - that you are receiving software with 48m euros from Bill Gates - another form with the coronary and the vaccines by Bill Gates! - that you prefer "MICROSOFT" to get 48 million and give it, while it is free software. I'm going to file their complaint in the Minutes. The Greek Informatics Association denounces it. You give 48m euros for a software that is free of charge. These are incredible things and I will tell you what I believe, seeing empty chairs in the House. There is no more sign or proof, if you like, of a bad state than the abundance of doctors and law. See around you in the Greek Parliament. They're doctors and lawyers, most of them. I'm not saying it. Plato said so. This is the neo-Greek democracy, rotten from top to bottom. Why? Because we do not have productive classes here, we do not have businessmen, we do not have farmers, we do not have farmers, we do not have fishermen, we do not have any other kind of citizens, who know the economy better, because they taste it every day and fight for their lives. It's a reality. I'm going to the other lousy thing I saw and I'm pissed off at the lousy anti-racist rally, where he asks, Mr. Minister, a guy who was symptomically in Marfin and who burned four people together with the kid, to deport the Greek Prime Minister and not to speak any party about it. Asking for a yutidan who really came from Pakistan, who doesn't know if he has asylum, is this president of the Pakistani community has asylum? - the expulsion of Loverde, the Prime Minister, of anyone who disagrees with him! He is the same person who said that "we have hands to beat if necessary". And the Greek state tolerates him, the New Democracy tolerates him, the guy who illegally rallys yesterday and no one was arrested. In Crete, Rhodes and Halkidiki closed the stores because it was crowded, but here no one was arrested by the New Democracy. They let them scream and swear at the country's Prime Minister. I don't care about Mr. Mitsotakis. I am interested in the Prime Minister, his institutional role I want to protect. It's a disgrace to everyone and watch SYRIZA's youth be there! Incredible things! Tomorrow will the youth of the RDP will come out and will say "Put Tsipras in jail!" What are these things? Tell me what things are! I don't know the logic of yours. To see a Mr Constantine, a "Mr Antarcian" - I say it myself, I do not say it with high speed - who has a course, bahalakis, motifs, next door! Symptoms are that, it's a coincidence! And there's no one who's going to talk about it. Going out here a guest, the guest says Pakistani and saying, "Get out the Prime Minister"! Did they have permission for the event? Did the police go to check, my Minister? Has anyone gone to check on these gentlemen who want to deport the Greek Prime Minister or deport anyone from here? Has anyone gone to check on them? Are there any serious checks being made? Oh, no. But the Greeks closed down Easter at his house, he also ate wood at the rally by SYRIZA for Macedonia. These gentlemen are in the unavoidable either with the New Democracy or with SYRIZA. I will not show you what they were saying here, but it is a wonder that I listen to Constantine say 'open the border, the refugees welcome, exodus not to refugees, but to Mitaraki and deport Mitsotakis!' because this gentleman wants to! And not to be prosecuted by a prosecutor! Because he doesn't talk about Mitsotakis, about the Prime Minister of the country, and let no one like him and let no one want him to vote for him. He's the Prime Minister of our country. Instead of taking him on the spot with handcuffs, we let him go and he says what he wants. All right, democracy has Greece, everyone can say anything they want, but the institutional role and the status of a man cannot be jeopardised by any Pakistani illegal who came and gave him asylum or any Constantine! From any Constantine! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] As for Pakistani is the one who again says "we have hands to beat." This man who has been inciting to violence Pakistanis in Greece! No one says anything, no one! Nobody speaks. So here comes the Greek Solution to shake you to make our democracy better, whether the Prime Minister is either the President of the Republic or anyone else, we will safeguard the institutions together! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I move on because time is pushing too. I have before me the weekly nutrition menu for illegal immigrants in Moria. I'm filing it in the Minutes. It is a document of the Ministry, an administration contract for Archipelagos National Guard and a Association of Mass Focus Companies. Breakfast, dinner, dinner for thirteen thousand people for seven days 500,000 euros. And we had the little girl in Rhodes who passed out because she hadn't got a cookie! I repeat: 500,000 euros for lunches for seven days! Five hundred grand for them, and the Greeks are hungry! And thankfully the Secretary-General of Solidarity was mobilized, since we spoke as Greek Solution in the House, about this lady, Mrs Maria, and gave her a job and a good one! Because we're going to say good things about New Democracy and SYRIZA and anyone. But 500,000 euros to feed a week in Moria, thirteen thousand? I don't understand! What are the Greeks? Destroyed, homeless? You make mistakes in the New Democracy, you make mistakes! And may I remind you what the 'DEUTSCHE WELLE' said? I'm reading the translation from the German news agency. "The victims of female genital mutilation (cliteroids) increased dramatically in Europe due to the existence of Islamics." Do you want this Europe? Is that what Europe wants us to do? We want a Europe of Greek or European, Greece Greek or European, but Christian, with nation and customs and traditions! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] It's not worth the woman clitoritectomy. Understood. I want to make a complaint. I did it to the Prime Minister. I hope he'll take initiatives himself because I don't see any initiatives taken. What you see - I don't know how you see it - is a bed in Kastelorizo in barracks. I'll testify the photos to Parliament's minutes. It's a bed our soldiers sleep in. Mr. Loverdo, if you see it, full of bugs it's in Kastelorizo today, yesterday it came to me. I texted the Prime Minister to take the initiative. Kastelorizo! And what makes us all ashamed. Our children guard Thermopylades in Kastelorizo - because they are Thermopylae Kastelorizo at the present stage and historical time - and we throw them here! Of course, our kids, some of them in here, are serving around here somewhere. It's like Alice in the Navy or Vucasas in the air force that took the plane and flew! But see where the children of the Greeks sleep, in beds which are terrible! In closing to say something very simple and I will say it very respectfully to all of you. Take lessons from Turkey. Turkey plays in two tableaus. It's not a unique country, though. And Egypt plays in two tableaus. Do you know that Egypt is both with Russia and the United States as it suits it? Why does everyone save and well to be with Piat? And SYRIZA and the New Democracy. I don't know about PASOK, but I know about both of them. Both with Piat, with the United States. So here's what Egypt does. A contract with Russia for five hundred third generation T90 tanks and a permit to assemble in Egypt. At the same time, Egypt has produced MMA/1 Abrams since 2011! And American and Russian! That means, you know, a multi-dimensional foreign policy, not the fairy tales said by Karugalos and by New Democracy. Unique is our policy. Always with Americans and Germans, and always with losers, we go out! How is that possible? I don't get it. Like Mr Mitsotakis' s symptom of calling, I - and I am closing here, Mr President, I apologise for the abuse of time - from a German press that by order of Merkel Mitsotakis spoke with Erdogan. Tell me how sensible that is! The German press, didn't Mr. Petsas deny it and symptomatic the next day what's going on? NAVTEX in Turkey, in Psara, calls for demilitarisation and the next day you are opening the border in Castani as of 1 July. Why? Instead of closing the Gardens, never to enter a Turkish product in Greece again, to hit them the economy, the Prime Minister suddenly opens all the customs and all the roads from Turkey to Greece! What's the point? What do we have to do with this? I ask you: why did the Prime Minister do it? Tell me the truth, to understand the Greek people. Did we back up? Have we given any more stuff? And don't forget that last December the Prime Minister met Erdogan, and after two months Erdogan made him a hybrid war in Evros! Don't trust the Turk! Don't trust Turkey and Erdogan! It is pretentious, chauvinistic, nazi, fascist, their perception and will hamper us all this process, the process of refreshing, the process of 'it's okay', the process 'but it's okay, let's have a conversation and dialogue'. One we'll tell you as Greek Solution. With pirates you never do! And Turkey is a pirate, fascist, nazi country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u20	I see in the background of this Chamber one of the commemorators today, the Vice-President from the Greek Solution, and we wish him many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u21	Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u22	The treat will be expected later. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Zavvos Georgios, has the floor. With one tolerance in time, and you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos, submits for the minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvement, which reads as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the page in. 71]] Ladies and gentlemen, with the legislation under discussion and the legislative resolution and with all the debates that have actually been made in detail, in detail and with sufficient capacity, we have shown that the National Representation and the Social Institutions want a law, which comes to fill a great gap in the financing of the real economy, small and medium-sized enterprises, vulnerable groups, all those young people, students, women who want to enter the production process. Most importantly, however, this bill showed that there is a government strategy on development policy issues and in particular the modernisation of the Greek banking system, in particular by creating new financial instruments that will meet important needs. We see the consistency with which the government within a year has brought bills, laws - sectors. Firstly, we have HARAKEL who was successfully adopted and operates, secondly, the bill that is under a vote on microfinance, thirdly, the bill tabled yesterday concerning the modernisation of the capital market and, in particular, the issue of corporate governance, and fourthly, the issue of money laundering and the bill that will come to Parliament in the next few days. Mr President, we have also shown that there is a convergence of views in this convergence also finds a political and administrative follow-up. We have agreed that it is important to have these innovative changes at this important and difficult time that the development of new business activities, the creation of new jobs and, above all, the strengthening of vulnerable social groups, which are at risk of being cut off from the production process through exclusion from bank lending. That is why I believe that this bill has some important innovations. Firstly, beneficiaries can receive EUR 25 000 funding and these are very small businesses, natural persons, social solidarity institutions. Secondly, along with this funding, the advisory services are also going to the microfinance beneficiaries so that they can have a little help in the early stages of their careers. Thirdly, unlike bank lending, the beneficiary collateral is not required. Fourthly, a flexible broad corporate form is given and simplified in this respect so that providers operate as a capital or urban exclusive company. I would like to say that the architecture of the armour and the protection that this bill ensures has tried to find a golden incision between a flexibility needed to provide microfinance at short intervals and, secondly, to ensure that, as some have said, suspected elements do not enter the market. That is why we decided and proposed the authorisation and supervision of providers to be granted to the Bank of Greece. In this regard, I would like to say to the rapporteur of the Staff Regulations that this decision was taken on the basis of concrete considerations. Again, I say that the Bank of Greece was the only one in the framework of the supervisory process, which could really take over this process, because we have seen that the same thing is happening in all countries where bank supervisory authorities are supervising and microfinance providers. It is also possible for banks’ supervisory authorities themselves to supervise institutions which have financial procedures, such as in the case of Greece governed by the provisions of the legislation applicable horizontally, which is Article 153 of Law 4261/2014, and which also covers sanctions. We do not believe that it would be advisable in this procedure to give a ministry as important as you wish. The second theme of this architecture is corporate governance, which is characterised by the identification of two persons responsible for complying with the institution's strategy, should be appropriately qualified and, of course, equivalent experience in the financial and business sector. The bill is also required to have a clear organisational structure and transparent provisions, with specific consistent lines of responsibility, effective procedures for identifying, managing, monitoring and reporting risks. The institution must also have a business plan, internal control business mechanisms. The third point of architecture is that the provisions against money laundering are fully applied to banks and this is guaranteed by the Bank of Greece. The fourth point is that there is the possibility of applying the provisions relating to the consumer. Here I would like to say that in the interests of consumer protection it is right what the rapporteur for Officerial Representation said that he had been put into public consultation at the time and there were provisions to protect the consumer. However, following cooperation with the relevant directorates at the Ministry of Development and Investment, it was considered necessary to remove them in order to avoid confusion. The general terms of trade apply to both natural persons and micro-enterprises. So is the protection of the natural persons who are consumers, which is fully guaranteed by the existing legislation. So there is no risk of any doubt. On the issue of legislative improvements which are also the field of convergence, I think that the possibilities that I have said of enlarged corporate governance can certainly be mentioned, a more flexible framework especially with the initial chapter. We have broadened the beneficiaries of microfinance by adding the social and solidarity economy actors. With regard to the interest rate that we have discussed in detail, I think we have reached a solution which enables the Minister of Finance to determine when the ceiling is necessary at any time as a means of preventing any tactical practices. We also enabled local authorities and chambers to participate in the establishment of microfinance institutions, but at least 40% of the private sector's participation is ensured. We also proposed the possibility of a report every two years by the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Greece, so that the Parliament, the National Representation to assess the framework for the operation of microfinances and allow it to monitor developments and possibly propose improvements. But above all, with our amendment and as requested by the House, we now have control over the suitability of the shareholders who receive special participation in microfinance institutions and thus exercise control over the institution. Particular attention shall be paid to the evaluation of training, experience, assets and penal registers. I would like to say about Mr Katrin's intervention on transitional provisions, that with a legislative improvement submitted to plenary during the debate on the principle of the draft law it was clear that in the transitional period without authorisation it is only for companies - entities based in Greece, which have received certification from the European Union Code of Good Practice and have submitted the initial chapter of EUR 250,000. So there must be no doubt about that, if you want to clear out any doubts. Most of all, however, for those who, in the previous debate and today, talked about fears or possible cases of foreigners, migrants and others to infiltrate in a strange way, I would like to say that the Government is presenting today to the National Representation of Legislative Representations a legislative improvement, on the basis of which, after the words 'fair social groups' are added in the second subparagraph of paragraph 15, the words 'with at least 10 years of tax residence in Greece' are added. We hope that there will be no doubt that, on the one hand, these hypothetical cases in their minds are covered, but on the other hand, students and others are not excluded from sensitive social groups. Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say that, with this bill, the strategy of the government - and with all the previous ones we have brought this year - is one of the major axes that currently shape the post-crisis Europe. Firstly, the monetary dimension that comes mainly from the European Central Bank because, as we know, at a critical time of the crisis, the Prime Minister's personal intervention ensured access for Greek banks to the financing of the European Central Bank, with the famous Waiver. Secondly, as you know, at the moment the government together with the other partners are forming the negotiated parameters of the Recovery Fund which is a unique tool of quasi-economic intervention, which will give our country the opportunity for a new dynamic transformation of its productive fabric.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u24	You're closing up with this, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u25	Thirdly, we are at the forefront of all the work on the integration of the banking union. Fourthly, we support initiatives to complete the European Securities Union, in particular by strengthening European supervisory authorities with real powers. Fifthly, we coordinate the activities for green development and digital transformation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u26	Minister, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u27	I shall conclude, Mr President. The main aim of the banking system is to enable banks to make the real signal of the huge liquidity that will exist in the near future in the real economy, because it really needs a competitive banking system, cheap financing in the real economy and, above all, in small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u28	I put your dentistry on you, too. I don't know, Minister, how this bill will go from night to night, but the banks, leave it better, it rains on people's demands. Now we're entering the chatter list. They are the colleagues from yesterday, with a mutual transfer with Mr Pschassakis, the first is Mr Amanatidis, the second is Mr Haritsis, who has also made a mutual transfer with his colleague Mr Hatzigiannakis, thirdly Mr Papadimitriou. And I read the rest of the names, because I do not see most of them except Mr Amyras and Mr Maraveya, so that they may come down: it is Mr Maraveyas, Mrs Iatridis, Mr Amyras, Mr Karasmanis. Mr. Amanatidis has the floor. You are typically supposed to speak at first, but you are talking about both of them, namely also about the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while attending the committee meetings, I found that, for the usefulness of this draft law, no one disagrees, that is, both the members of the committee and the representatives of the bodies present. I have also seen how important and socially imperative it is to legislate with consensus and that has been demonstrated. And how has it been proved? All the substantiated proposals put forward by the opposition and by all concerned were assessed, they were accepted to the greatest extent, so we have a convergence point in this draft law. So the bill we are discussing is now more realistic and therefore more sustainable in its implementation. Dialogue was truly essential and valued in the efforts of all actors. This draft law is another step by the government to stimulate growth and to assist entrepreneurship. In the past few days, Minister Stakoras mentioned the nine entrepreneurship support points. I would remind you here and the reports by the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Zavvos, who told us that the programme 'HERAKLIS' was launched for the first time. Already some banks are starting their integration procedures, and so we hope that the programme will help to alleviate the banking system from EUR 30 billion, contributing to its reassurance. I dare say that today's draft law is beneficial to the tested Greek economy, but also to entrepreneurship, since it is planned to act. The banking system makes it difficult to provide loans and is therefore an issue that should be dealt with. This draft law, in my opinion, is also a success. In practice today, Greek companies are excluded from the banking system. You made a report too, Mr President, earlier. When this happens, the cost of financing is high, and the credit assessment of enterprises is excessive. We want those who are affected to be able to receive not an allowance, but to start a new job. We therefore want the citizens, the potential entrepreneurs, to learn to fish and not to give them the fish. With the new regulations, jobs are being created, the country's productive fabric is being expanded and entrepreneurship and growth is being strengthened. At the same time, however, it is achieved by limiting the coastal economy and creating a healthy business culture. Relevant reports were made by the Minister earlier. Are microcredits really necessary? So we need a parallel system, as we say, but will I say a supplementary one, to the bank? The positive experience of many countries is in favour of the usefulness of the tool, and of course, the existence of this tool means that we have also drawn some conclusions which we must use in our country as well. Adopting this micro-credit tool in our country has been a long way behind, and that is why it is at a critical time when relaunching the country along with tourism and other economic activities need alternative ways of financing businesses. In particular, on the basis of Article 17, safeguards such as traditional bank lending are not required. The microcredit institution may, however, provide guarantees if necessary. The benefits of the new programme are not assessed on the basis of creditworthiness, as I have said so far. Microfinances do not see the entrepreneur, but they see the business and the prospect that it will have in a new project. Article 14. The draft law, as it is well known, provided for at the beginning the payment of EUR 25 000 per beneficiary, but it is very important - and this was planned from the outset - to provide advisory services to borrowers who want to use this instrument. Article 21. It is ensured that micro-credits will not be degenerated by unfair practices, excessive interest charges and opacity. It is a good idea, therefore, that the data on financing should be made public. Security controls are also provided for so that the practice of microfinance does not lead to a new generation of malpractice strategies. The arrangements are specific. Nor is it a question of money laundering. I shall refer to a few points of friction, criticism and reflection. In Article 4 - the Minister also said it symptomaticly earlier - the bill provides a framework for authorisation and supervision by the Bank of Greece. For the different views that have been expressed, the necessary clarifications have been given and the feeling is that this solution is the best. Article 7 has heard the bodies - it is what I said about consensus - and the EUR 400,000 share of the capital has become 250,000 for the microfinance instrument. Article 15. With a new regulation - and this is the added value of consultation - it was foreseen that micro-credit institutions would not only be public limited companies, but capital companies or urban companies. I would remind the potential beneficiaries were also integrated by the social and solidarity institutions of L.4330/2016. As far as the interest rate on microcredit is concerned, a number of previous references have been made. The logic was that if a limit is set, the market shows that it is usually inclined to approach it. For this reason, no interest ceiling has been set and provision is made for the possibility for the Minister to regulate it. I'm going to make a next reference to the issue of cars that were still in motion. The citizen can now pay the traffic charges for the months he wishes to drive his car. It is also important to regulate - and it has not been heard many times - that the reduction of the ENVY of natural persons has also been transferred to 2020. It was very important. I also consider it very important that farmers should be able to borrow up to 25 000 for 2020 without issuing insurance information. Something which has also not been stressed and which has not been emphasised is the possibility, by amendment, of taking social policy measures in disadvantaged areas, as recognised by the European Union regulation, that is, mountainous areas and areas with special disadvantages. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing and in conclusion, the Government continues to support the business community in practice. The micro-credits we appreciate - and this is how it is - is a modern tool that comes to give'spirits' to businesses and gives an answer to the concerns, concerns and suggestions of professionals and suggestions of focusing, recreation, nights etc. Indeed, in the midst of the pandemic crisis many times I had received similar proposals and ideas from the citizens, who now see that they are fully covered by this legislative initiative. With these considerations, I am clearly voting in favour of this draft law and I call on you to do so too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Alexander Haritsis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of micro-credits which we are debating today is not about a few, and it is not at all small. On the contrary, I'd say. It concerns thousands of our fellow citizens, whether directly or indirectly, and is related to something extremely important, to ensuring a parallel and complementary financing system, in addition to the practices of systemic banks. Microcredits are proof that even in the suffocating limits imposed by the bank's speculative operation there is another way, the way for alternative forms of financing for freelance professionals, small businesses and self-employed people. This is the way to meet the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises where markets fail. And the markets really fail. And that is something that we have seen very clearly in recent months with the crisis of the coronary pandemic. It is the path of meeting needs and removing the exclusion of small and medium-sized enterprises from banking lending. We are really proud, because with the effort we have made in recent years, we have created a financial instrument that has been and is a very important part of the overall SYRIZA strategic proposal to combat the crisis and growth. I would remind you that we have worked for this purpose since the first days of 2015, in order to strengthen growth, to act in parallel and complement the banking system, to strengthen a new concept that has at its heart the criterion of social utility and not just banking profitability. And we've achieved enough in this direction. In practice, we conflicted with the stricter rules imposed by the European Central Bank, which has led to what, unfortunately, we know, the exclusion of small and medium-sized enterprises from the banks. So we have shaped this new framework and, of course, especially today, in the current circumstances, this policy implemented by SYRIZA as government in previous years is even more important and the reason is very simple. Since the end of 2019, before the coming of the coronary, our country has, unfortunately, returned the responsibility of the New Democracy Government in the time of recession. Because now the recession we are discussing is not a forecast for the future, it is already here. This is evidenced by the statistical indicators, by the medium- and long-term estimates of all international organisations, but above all by the voice of thousands of people who see it lost what we had achieved with collective effort, hard sacrifices and political initiatives in previous years. It is the voice of the small businessmen and the self-employed who saw the New Democracy promise to develop a well-being and are now faced with the lock, with insecurity and unemployment. It is the voice of free professionals who have recently experienced insulting teletraining and are now left alone to fight without any support. It is the voice of the workers in small and medium-sized enterprises, who are faced with the high level of wage squeezing, the fear of redundancies, the awareness that the Greek economy can no longer stand. It is precisely this pressure, this social demand for suffocation due to a lack of liquidity, which leads the government to fold for microcredits. He had done the same in the past and with the Development Bank. She initially refused her usefulness. He finally passed the SYRIZA bill and today acknowledges that if there were no such important tool, even those very few, the few, which he is trying to do to fund the businesses would not be possible. The big difference, however, is that SYRIZA integrates such tools as microcredits and the Development Bank into a comprehensive strategy, which the state perceives as an institution that has the potential and must intervene in the market, in order to correct distortions and shortcomings. On the other hand, the New Democracy does not accept market failures and, on the other hand, considers the State to be a brake on growth. Who is ultimately right to prove it the grim reality that they face today because of the financial suffocation of small businesses, free professionals and farmers. That is why the government, in the face of the recession which it originally created, has also deepened because of the pandemic and its own inertia, is now forced to adopt elements of the SYRIZA development strategy. Of course, because we do not forget that we have been discussing a bill that had already been given public consultation by SYRIZA and the Government of New Democracy preferred to keep it on the 'bart' for a whole year. In SYRIZA, however, we will not follow the path of opposition populism. We have stated and declared that we will support micro-credits. Besides, it's actually ours, like I said, bill. We will support it because it can indeed pave the way for the funding of thousands of our fellow citizens at an extremely critical time for the Greek economy. We will support it, but, of course, we will not give the government a 'white check'. We cannot give a 'white check' because it is, of course, a crucial bet for this tool to succeed in practice, really strengthening those who need it. And there are many people who need it very much in today's conditions. We are, however, very concerned that the conditions for the success of micro-credits are contrary to the DNA of the current government. What are these requirements? That the State as a guarantor will have an active role to ensure favourable borrowing conditions, particularly low interest rates. That a leading role needs to be played by local institutions and bodies close to society and its needs, such as chambers, professional bodies, self-government, branches of the Development Bank, cooperative banks. And that, of course, and that's the most important thing, if they do, if they do predominate, opaque and rosphetically logically the institution of microcredits is mathematically certain that it will lead to failure. That is why we will be here to monitor at every step the implementation of this new institution. We are not going to allow a valuable and innovative tool to be turned into a ruptured and customer-friendly machine. Because of course the government is already testing the tolerance and strength of society in relation to the management of public money. It is the government I would remind you that it is burdened with the unprecedented practice of opaque EUR 20 million in real, but also in non-existent media. It is the same government that, despite the general outcry, still does not make the funding elements of each instrument public. It is the same government that systematically attempts to escape from the harsh reality of recession and uncertainty, through recourse to dark and dangerous practices as a whole. It is the same government that yesterday demonized the Development Bank and used micro-credits and today, under the pressure of society, trying to take stock of SYRIZA's political proposal to create an alternative financing system with a social stand-alone aim for real growth. So we will be here, in cooperation with professional bodies and civil society, to ensure that the micro-credit institution works for the benefit of those who really need it. We will be here to deepen the debate on the ability of the state and its institutions to intervene decisively in society. We will be here in order finally to be able to stand, to remain Greek society standing with a programme of decisive interventions in the real economy, with a programme that supports development with transparency and rules, with a programme that ensures the rights of many at work, security and prosperity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u32	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Tourism, Finance, Foreign Affairs, Education and Religious Affairs tabled on 30-6-2020 a draft law on "Standardisation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on cooperation in the field of tourism". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The Member of the New Democracy, Mr Charalambos Papademitriou, who has the floor, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are discussing a useful tool of capitalism. And it is a great pleasure to see the Vice-Presidents ready to support something that they have not been able to do - it is true - during their great term of office. You had the biggest in this period. Four and a half years is too much in a time of crisis. As you hadn't been able to build the Development Bank either. I guess there was no deal for what kind of bank that would be. Two things that took place within a short time. If we had the Development Bank before, however, we could do much better now that we need it, which we need to deal with a crisis. A crisis that the previous speaker - obviously also within the narrow group of creative accounts currently in the opposition - summed up the current recession faced by our people, our economy, our society, with issues which, in the calculations made and from the top of the opposition, concern how the economy was going before us. I am not going to go into this because it will take us a long time and I want to use it, Mr President, on something which I literally regard as a matter of personal honour. But it is good when you talk about banks, ladies and gentlemen, to remember that 25 billion of the shares that the state had at that time were delivered. You put another five billion on the third capitalisation of the banks you made. Of this, 25 billion were lost, because today if we sell the shares then we will take 5 billion. While, in the meantime, bank control has been lost, because banks are now running - at least three who can - from individuals to a regime unacceptable, where interventions by people who very little know about how this country works, about what needs it has and who obviously did not give a "five smack" to the conclusion of a thousand pages that you drafted. A thousand pages were the conclusion of the committee which sought to find the scandals in the financing to parties, to the press, to the media. You have spent too much time saying the banks are an endless scandal. You have spent too much time doing nothing to save people from the red loans, which we now find before us. Because when people have red loans, of course, they have harder to borrow. Although within a few months, within these few months - and this is why, Mr President, I will be allowed to say, invoking your concern about how the banks work - 11 billion has been arranged and gone downwards. And these people have been liberated from the stress of their bank burdens, which you told them to take and keep. In any case, in this matter I must say that SYRIZA fully supported his ally or if you want his ally supported SYRIZA because the objective was a common objective. What was the target? It was: If I can hurt my political opponent. If I can hurt anyone who has the freedom of opinion and the opportunity in this society and in the status that we have to say it. If I can do this, I'll have achieved something important. I will not repeat this very well-known that some of us should have been in jail. But I will remind you of something very nice that Mr Juncker, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, said. Mr. Juncker once said: “Why are you telling me why I work with the Austrians? Here I am working with Mr Tsipras' extreme right-wing government partner, who is celebrating the closure of the 'news'. Here it is. He's celebrating. This was the result of a thousand finding pages from which not a single prosecution came out. In these four and a half years you have not dealt with anything about the reality of the economy. You could not go through this, as we see, consensual and practical draft law on microcredits. Why didn't you do that? Because you had your mind how to put some prisoners in prison. You chased over fifteen journalists. I was talking to George Papachristos of the “News” and he explained to me how he was being watched by the cell phone up to his village, high. Eight cops had him there, and he wouldn't get away with them. The state and power ordered these policemen who did their job, and told them that they wouldn't be able to get away with it and I want him tied back. You chased three people who went to one department and told them: "Oh, it's not the right department here, to go to the other department to arrest you in a self-sacrifice." Three colleagues from LIBERAL. You chased people you'd put them in any way you could put them in. That, of course, is why you made the spot. It's a disgrace. It is disgraceful why this spot does not say that journalists 'was caught'. He says, but I don't care so much about that, because, coming from your side, my ears really don't sweat. It does not say that journalists 'was caught'. It says that whoever says what he thinks is 'handling'. It is not my opinion that anyone who thinks it is 'watches'. And it is shameful that, in the same category, you could put at least ten journalists - I deliberately omit one who states a journalist from your own parliamentary group - of whom I would expect to hear at least one word, at least one word. But unfortunately, tell me your friend to tell you who you are! Ladies and gentlemen, we have now come to discuss how the 'government officials' will be translated into English. I am not good at telling you how the Americans, not even the English, speak in their legal texts and identify state officials. But, in any case, this text, published by NOVARTIS as a communication, I have to tell you that it is an agreed text. That is to say, it has been agreed with the Ministry of Justice of the United States and with the capital market committee, every word of it. It is underlined, he says, in this text that the current agreement does not contain any claims regarding alleged political bribery in Greece. This is in line with the internal investigation of NOVARTIS. You don't have to read this either where it's in Greek and you didn't have to have the level of American-English-English-American-language, that is, to understand that when they say gonorrment officials, they mean what you should have looked for. All these years we were telling you journalists that you didn't like and that we were bad, we were memorial, we were "we were in Europe" and all that stuff. What we've heard! What my children have heard! Once my daughter, while we were walking to Ermos, tells me, "Dad, come and get you." And I tell her, "Bad, how's that?" And he tells me: "Let me hold you, it's safer." And he was 16. All this because? Because your mind was there, you were exclusively concerned with how to hurt the opponent. It is no coincidence that before the paper that took over the Mitsotakis hunting, since he had meanwhile become President of the New Democracy, and the dishonorable thing that he started from his wife, started by Marva Grabovski. Already there was a court dispute, because there was some information published by someone and Mrs Grabovski had turned against him. But a newspaper was also made, which systematically was chasing Mrs Grabowski from the first year's headlines. I was sitting on measures, and I think nine out of ten had Mrs Grabowski on the front page somehow. I mean that to discuss serious things and say that we will create a tool that will not save the economy, to agree, to save people, but what such loans are made will be good loans, and on the other hand we will have to deal with this north, with which, unfortunately, you have built up four and a half years with your government service, it is literally for pity. I am sorry, too, for this matter and for what has happened and I am sorry, because you have not found an apology to tell the journalists who, thank God, have made sure that we give our opinion so that you can say that there is still democracy in Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u34	We proceed with Mr Constantine Maraveya, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the new alternative forms of financing at European and global level are perhaps not so new and in fact is a tool for microfinance, which has been in place for several decades in developing countries. So the New Democracy Government is doing nothing more than modernising the country with a framework for granting micro-credits, which already exists in many countries of the European Union. This draft law therefore regulates the institutional framework for facilitating micro-enterprises to access easy financing. These are very small loans of up to 25 thousand euros, without the provision of collateral and a top example of the implementation of this new financing instrument will be agricultural production and, of course, small farms. Also, those who are at the start of their business can be helped, and therefore de facto they are unable to offer these usual bank collaterals, but there is still one dimension, the one that emerged from the outbreak of the recent pandemic. This is to facilitate emergency financing for small businesses, for freelance professionals and independent employees, who are financially compressed due to circumstances of force majeure. In order for this flexible funding to be available in the future, however, certain rules are needed to ensure transparency in granting these microfinances. The rules introduced by this draft law are the least possible to ensure both the rights of creditors and microfinance institutions, but on the other hand without overregulation and abstract bureaucratic procedures. The forms of these microfinances, which these institutions can grant up to EUR 25,000, include meeting investment needs, covering the working capital, leasing products for equipment acquisition, as well as credits aimed at strengthening public policies or the socio-economic integration of vulnerable groups. Such social policy measures can also concern the treatment of unemployment or the suspension of working time, particularly during the times of crisis, such as the one Greece has recently faced. An important provision of this draft law is the possibility of co-financed by these microfinance institutions' resources with the Public Investment Programme and thus mobilise all available tools for the benefit of enterprises for their direct financing and systematically makes use of all available resources, both national and European. This is therefore a mechanism that is a tool, a tool to create jobs, increase production and boost entrepreneurship through the provision of yet another financial facility, away from bureaucratic processes and the most important away from taco-circular practices. Minister, I would like to focus a little more on the forecasts of the primary production bill. It is extremely important that individual farmers and fishermen gain permanent access to micro-credits for a long-term repayment horizon of up to 10 years. In fact, the amendment - an addition to the Ministry of Finance extends this possibility of funding up to 25 thousand euros, even without any insurance information for the whole of 2020. Another measure, very importantly, concerns our farmers, and it is the extension of the special income support for the inhabitants of mountainous and disadvantaged regions, to more beneficiaries, by relaxing the criteria for their integration, and in the same spirit of facilitating primary production, is Article 35 for the extension, for 2020, of the exemption of agricultural parcels of natural persons from the supplementary ENPI, with a view to tax relief, particularly of the rural population. The same socially sensitive, however, proves to be the case in New Democracy and in Article 36, by extending the benefit of the 25% tax credit to long-term guaranteed debts, and in June 2020, a measure which was tested during the krone and which has proved to be a very successful one. Minister, I wanted to close with a proposal that does not only concern farmers, but it concerns all the Greeks who want to produce and which has to do with the EUR 25 000 cap on microfinances, which everyone recognises as being somewhat restrictive. A farmer who wants to build a standardisation laboratory, for example, may not, in practice, be covered by a credit of EUR 25 000. Of course, the amendment to Article 14, after the public consultation, was in the right direction, but it must also be supplemented by a decision by the Ministry of Finance, which would adjust the limits for microfinance specifically for producers. Thus, this new mechanism will not only decompress the financial sector, but will mainly give real breath to primary production, will give genuine breath to those who are willing to produce, move forward even the GDP of the country, in an environment that sometimes becomes suffocating, especially for those who are at the start of their business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u36	Mr Georgios Amyras has the floor, and then Mr Karasmanis from yesterday's catalogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are concluding the debate on the micro-credits bill, the micro-credits - as you say - at a very critical and difficult time for the Greek economy, not only for the Greek economy, but also for the European economy as a whole and for the global, after the difficulties of the coronary pandemic. Tomorrow is an important day for Greece. Tomorrow Greek tourism opens its doors to foreign visitors with a program, with security rules, with a list of countries that will be allowed to enter foreign tourists, with a commitment to public health. Tourism has clearly lost too much ground. We are almost in July, a large part of the tourist year has been lost and everyone is restrained in relation to the next steps of Greek tourism. However, Greece is in a much better position than many other 'antagonists' tourist countries, and this advantage that our country has is that it is a safe country in relation to the pandemic and all this has been achieved thanks to the timely treatment of the coronary pandemic by the government and of course with the help of all Greek citizens. The Government in cooperation with experts has taken the necessary measures to limit the spread of the virus, it has succeeded and it is clear that the timely treatment of the pandemic health component is the key and prerequisite for economic recovery. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In the face of this asymmetrical threat, the Government takes the steps it needs to support professional groups, sectors of economy, citizens, in order to create the possibility of relaunching the market in a time horizon that is visible, but not in the logic of 'gift everything', as SYRIZA asks. I would remind you that SYRIZA received the tax advance at 50%, took it to 100%, and now he is asking for it to be abolished completely. Also, VAT on most of the products on the shelves of stores and supermarkets took him from 13%, took him to 23% and then to 24% and now he says take him to 6%. I would say, then, that the extremists of overtaxation, that is, the people of SYRIZA, now appear to be experts in tax relief. So here, there's no need for populism. Here is a serious need for measures to be reasoned, correctly, in the right time, because only in this way can this advantage be safeguarded of the confidence gained between the citizens and the Greek political scene or the state, as you want to say. The Recovery Fund is very important. Greece, thanks to the intervention of Mitsotakis, managed to claim the largest proportional share among the European Union countries in the recovery fund under establishment, amounting to EUR 32 billion. This money must be invested in the best way. Of course I am pleased that the leadership of the Ministry of Finance will be in cooperation with distinguished economists so that they can design the development plan and model that will bring Greece to the frontline of the Eurozone. Just one comment, Mr Minister, which I am sure you will take into account, is that we must all believe - and above all the government and the finance ministers - in the interconnection between primary, manufacturing and tourism. For example, the agricultural and livestock products of Epirus, which are of excellent and of high quality, must be the "passport" for the tourist upgrading of our counties. The same applies to the knowledge society, to culture. We need to invest on the basis of the new development model in the scientific potential of this country and enable young people to stay in Greece and also to start returning from abroad. I now come to the microcredit bill. I will say that about twenty years ago I was lucky as a journalist in the House of Old Parliament to attend the lecture of an unknown then to the wider common economist from Bangladesh, Mohammed Yunus, who later became known as the "Nobelist of the poor". It was the one who had contributed - and that was what he said at the time - to the creation of communication channels for people who were completely out of the bank's perspective on access to finance. So, then, I was impressed by what he said: 'I want the micro-loans system' - which he built at the time - 'to be the "baker" for young people, for women, for vulnerable social groups, for the "baker" to improve their lives, to develop the economic, business or commercial or any other idea that has the benefit of both of them and of the social group as a whole.' Of course, the positive action of Mohamed Yunus is also in the articles of this bill that we are discussing. Fortunately the conditions in Greece are much better than those in Asian Nobelista. However, the exclusion of productive parts of Greek society remains outside the banking system and exists and therefore action is needed. Why, for example, cannot a beekeeper from Ioannina receive a micro-credit of EUR 20,000 to proceed with standardisation, increase his product and acquire new markets? Why should a silver-gold designer from Pagogai or a wooden barrel manufacturer from Metsovo be left outside the bank radar where such a tradition exists? Why not give opportunities to startup companies, newly created and run by young people in Konitsa, who want to implement some application, some technological application for agricultural products? Why should people with disabilities go out of the banking system, while I always talk about my own region, the county of Ioannina - to work in businesses, small herb processing plants? Many times the dream of reality is only a thousand euros away. Therefore, the micro-credit bill - which is now concluding its debate and we will be in favour of it, as it seems, since the opposition almost as a whole supports it - gives the opportunity to our fellow citizens who are, unfortunately, away from the credit system, chasing their dreams, working and achieving for the benefit of their own and wider society. In conclusion, I would like to say an answer that was given at the time by Nobel Prizeist, as we have become accustomed to calling him, whether there was a fear that the loans from the people who received them would not be given back, since there were no guarantees. He said that by 98% these loans are returned, because the people who take them do not see them as begging, but they see them as a "window" to facilitate and develop their lives and their future and their children. The same will happen here in Greece. We will monitor, Your Honor, Mr. Zavve, how the system will be applied from now on. I also call on those few Members who think about it whether or not they will vote in favour of the bill, because they do not vote in favour of something that is merely the result of this government's policy, but something that will help and facilitate the lives of thousands of Greeks who are today outside the banking system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u38	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics is tabling its report on the request of the Prosecutor for the granting of the authorisation to prosecute a criminal prosecution against a Member. I have to inform the House that we are still on the list of the previous sitting, that the speeches of the parliamentary representatives have not been exhausted, and we still have forty colleagues to speak. We shall return to what is laid down in the Rules of Procedure. Instead of eight minutes, speaking time will be seven minutes, as the Rules say. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u39	The House agreed. Thank you very much. Mr. George Karasmanis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time a year has passed from New Democracy, in which the Greek people have given their generous self-reliance to implement its policy and to implement its election commitments. As a Member of Parliament for twenty-four years, I have to say that I have never seen such a great and important legislative work carried out, and indeed with closed Parliament for a period, at the expense of the extremely unfavourable conditions caused by the pandemic. Neither little nor much were 81 bills passed, a real legislative storm, through which there were areas, reforms, eradicated chronic pathogens, and solutions were given to problems, solutions that did not cost the state budget, implementing the announcements and commitments of our government. A climate of optimism and economic climate indicators, as well as the consumer confidence index, have been restored to maximum levels of 20 years. Indicators that form the basis for the recovery of the market and the economy as a whole. Unfortunately, the pandemic that cut off this course was invented. I must point out, however, that this crisis has been tackled seriously and effectively, a success recognised internationally, which has made our country an example at global level and which is certainly credited to the government and above all to the Prime Minister, as it has shown that there was a plan to tackle even the so extreme situations, putting above all the protection of the human life and health of the Greek people. The costs were undoubtedly very high and the side effects. However, these have also been dealt with and treated with targeted measures to support those affected, as with measures to strengthen liquidity, such as the return of the second phase to all small businesses without workers, that is to say, all small shops, from the pharmacy to the taxi, that is to say, for all those who held the ten years of the economic crisis, the four and a half years of overtaxation and the recent forced closure because of the pandemic. We have achieved all this through a lasting channel of communication with the heads of the relevant ministries, with proposals and suggestions adopted. But, of course, the market has not recovered and will be delayed to recover, because the world is still scared and 'gummed'. I have been put back in detail a week ago for the Operational Programme ‘TEPTX 2’. It's not going as it should be. There are bureaucracy problems. This needs to be corrected immediately. Banks must stand up to the circumstances and their national responsibility within the criticality of the times. I now come to this bill. It aims to cover the current financial gap, especially those at the beginning, but to the existing small enterprises, which are excluded from the bank loans. However, it is also addressed to vulnerable social groups. Our rapporteur has analysed them in detail and in detail. It provides for the establishment of flexible microfinance institutions, which will grant credits of up to EUR 25,000, without any collateral, under the supervision of the Bank of Greece, with full transparency rules and with the obligation to submit annual reports to Parliament, in order to assess and improve their services. It is a bill agreed by the overwhelming majority of the bodies, and in the committee, as in the House, there have been constructive comparisons and many corrections have been made. This is due to the head of the ministry who proved he knows how to listen. I am sure that even at the last minute the suggestions and proposals that will improve it will be heard. The injustices exist and must be corrected, even until the last minute, in order to be a real liquidity tool, support for small businesses and an opportunity to create new jobs. Another problem to which a solution is found is the taxation of the retroactives collected by pensioners, allowing them to submit amending tax declarations to include these amounts by tax on the use in which they are actually retroactive and not in total in the year in which they were collected, without fines and with a significant reduction in surcharges. Mr. Undersecretary, in my visit six months ago to the Ministry, the responsible State Secretary, Mr. Vesyropoulos, on this matter showed great sensitivity and committed to seeing it with the State Secretary. Today we see it being implemented. However, I also asked that there should be due diligence and understanding for active officials, who also charged extra taxes, increases and fines for retrospectives. Unfortunately, the relevant article does not include and lack the possibility of the same regulation. I call on the Ministry, which is distinguished from its sensitivity, to do so at least at the last moment in the framework of the necessary equality and equalisation, as laid down in the Constitution. At our same meeting, I had put another matter to the State Secretary. The need for a regular finalisation of the old pre-sales agreements without having to be attached to the tax disclosure contract in the context of the favourable 2014-2015 arrangement. I don't have time to analyze it. This arrangement will serve the parties concerned, will disguise them in the management of their property, and will also generate substantial revenue in the public sector. Mr Vésyropoulos had agreed on this and I must point out that he is an excellent knower of tax matters. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I consider it particularly important that the provision that institutionalises the payment of traffic charges on a monthly basis rather than on an annual basis. It motivates thousands of owners who want to lift the immobilisation of their vehicles for a while, without being obliged, as they have been, to pay the ends of the whole year. Equally important I consider the suspension of payment of the supplementary ENPI to the agricultural parcels for 2020. An important innovation in the amendment tabled is electronic invoicing, as it will be a major step towards transparency and modernisation in the fight against tax evasion. I am particularly pleased that in 2011, as head of the Nea Democrat Secretariat, we had worked with a group of technocrats, a draft law of twenty-two articles on the radical reform and modernisation of ELGA. We provided for electronicisation and automation for all the organisation's procedures and, in particular, for the electronic invoice with cross-checks. Unfortunately, because of the elections, it did not arrive in the House. We gave it to the successor in the eyes of amendments which, for their own reasons, did not go ahead with it. We anticipated the tripartite financing, i.e. the farmers' insurance contributions, Community funds and resources from the state budget. However, so far, although the law provides for a single euro, not even a single euro has been granted. I hope and hope that the head of the ministry will do so, because the ELGA is in a difficult situation of liquidity. It must therefore be strengthened and supported in order to be able to fulfil its obligations with the producers affected, that is to say it must give 35%.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u41	Please, please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u42	With the forced closure of the economy because of the pandemic, it has become the huge importance of the primary sector for the preparation and implementation of a national plan for the productive reconstruction of our agriculture, with the primary aim of being as adequate and self-sufficient as possible in the whole range of foods and the restructuring of crops in the context of the agricultural food model. Thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance of the time you have given me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr Karasmani. Mr Anastasios Publicakis is now being called to Stepma by New Democracy, the last speaker from the list of speakers on Wednesday 24 June 2020. We will then enter the list of speakers of today's sitting, with the first speaker, Mr Georgios Vlao, from New Democracy. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Evros six days ago welcomed the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security, Joseph Borrell, accompanied by Foreign Minister Nikos Dendias. Once again, a united and resounding message was sent to Turkey that Europe and Evros are not blackmailed. I am presenting to you today the echo of this visit and everything that has been done and said behind the cameras. The high official said impressed by the organization, responsibility and professionalism of Greek Police officials and the Greek Army. His transition to the Castanes took place at an exemplary speed and security, leaving a positive print to the leading official of Europe. Small Greece continues to impress Europe with the skills and the new policy on protecting our borders. Mr Borrell's presence sends a clear message of European solidarity and strength. The European Union's foreign policy officer stated attributes that Greek interests are European. He stressed that the European Union was determined to strongly support Greece's sovereign rights. Europe re-establishes its support from Flemish 1 of the Castanes, setting up a single front to Turkish provocativeness. However, the positive sound I described above succeeded, Minister, the possible reopening of the entry- exit points of the Castanes and the Gardens. There has been concern and concern among residents and also among actors. We fully trust in the management of the health crisis in the government, the relevant ministries and local and regional authorities and not just. The cases mentioned in the Thrace area, as well as the blurred management of the health crisis in the neighbouring country fully justifies the fear of the people of Evros and Thrace. I am sure you will consider the above data and take the best possible decision for the Evros region. Our prefecture is the crossroads north and south, east and west. We are not dismantling our historic role. The intense mobility of Greek citizens but also of our neighbours with short cross-references creates questions rather than just questions. The consequences of this are national, economic and health. The misuse of the right of arrival - departure from some should be treated seriously, effectively, with control measures and not just because they do not impose the corresponding measures taken by the neighbouring country. In any case, it is estimated that society is calling for strict implementation, because not even the rigour of health controls due to the vulnerability of the region. With particular interest, Minister, current government decisions or clarifications are expected to follow yesterday's agenda, which we very much need. Now, with the bill under discussion, a new modern institutional framework is introduced, which determines the allocation of micro-credits. It offers an alternative way of financing, which is complementary to the banking system. The government's initiative is part of a comprehensive framework of targeted policies to curb the recession as a result of the economic crisis. The granting of micro-credits in the form of small loans of up to EUR 25,000 from new institutions under the supervision of the Bank of Greece is guaranteed. Very important, what has been described in the law. It is a flexible and rapid system of funding always under strict supervision and ensure good practices. This new tool is aimed at the very large, micro-enterprises, newly created companies and all kinds of natural persons excluded from banking funding due to the lack of adequate collateral. It is also possible to energise the excluded and vulnerable social groups energetically in order to tackle unemployment, inequalities and social exclusion. I would stress that the unemployment rates in Evros are high over time. Today there is a new hope for those locusts who want to be entrepreneurial and do not have their own funds. At the same time, it is achieved limiting the coastal economy and creating a healthy business culture, away from circuits of the paradox and dark paths. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on the extremely important prediction of extending the exemption of natural persons' parcels from the 2020 supplementary ENPY for 2020. This is an important measure to relieve the rural world of the Evros region. At this point I warmly welcome the decision of the Ministry of Finance and with the recommendation of the Ministry of Rural Development to suspend the payment of the trade tax for the tax year 2019 for the main-professional farmers. It was a consistent request from the Association of Agricultural Cooperatives of Alexandroupolis and other similar associations of the county, which I declared firmly and listened to from both Ministries and therefore, Minister, thank you very much. At the same time, a monthly payment of traffic charges is being introduced for this year. We thus make it easier for more than a million citizens who have deposited their signs in previous years because of the failure to pay the annual traffic charges. People are benefiting and state revenues are being strengthened. Finally, we restore an injustice involving some seventy thousand pensioners who received retroactive pension funds in 2013. Ladies and gentlemen, with the pandemic crisis and the emergency and subsidised measures, government planning is getting a new orientation. It focuses on measures aimed at restarting the economy and creating jobs. Today, an innovative, simple, but reckless piece of legislation is being tabled for returning to high and sustainable growth rates. That Government again proves that it is entrepreneurship-friendly, which it supplies with valuable start-up fuels rather than just start-ups. For all these reasons, I am voting in favour of the Treasury bill and I congratulate the Minister and his colleagues for the long-term effort in this direction I have said. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u45	Mr Georgios Vlachos is called in Stepma from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is almost all accepted that the government has dealt with the consequences of the coronary with responsibility and effectiveness. It has implemented and implemented a realistic, comprehensive, dynamic plan to support the economy, a plan which is unfolding methodically and decisively with policies that meet the needs of each stage of the health crisis and whose main objectives are: to strengthen the public health system, to support employment, to strengthen the liquidity of enterprises and to stimulate social cohesion. In this effort, the Government has decided on measures such as the repayable advance, the suspension of tax and insurance obligations, the reduction of tax advances, the interest subsidy on business loans, the entrepreneurship capital, the Guarantee Fund of the Greek Development Bank. All these measures are important and make up an integrated government plan to support our national economy. Thus, in the context of this plan, the Ministry of Economy brought the draft law on microfinance to a discussion and vote. This plan, ladies and gentlemen, has come to fill a gap, a necessity, in order to support small entities, of course, who have difficulties in raising the funds necessary for the start-up or continuation of their economic activity. The positive resonance of the government's initiative was also recorded by the statements made by market representatives. "A tool which is incredibly useful," said Mr. Kafounis, President of the Athens Trade Association. 'A draft law that is positive', as Mr. Megulis, the Director of HSY, told us. 'It moves in the right direction', as Mr Kavathas, the President of GATT, told us. "They will be able to obtain funding for those who were essentially excluded," said the Chairman of the Chamber of Economic Affairs, Mr. Kollias. "Extremely important institution for microfinance", as said by Mrs Papayannidou from the Bank of Greece. "We waited for this bill," said Ms. Tsiloglu, AFI Director General. Mr. Stamkos expressed his satisfaction at the bill by "MICROSTARS" and that he is moving in the right direction, said Mr. Tsafoutis from the EMCDDA. All those who attended therefore had a good reason to say about this initiative taken by the government, which also took the responsibility of legislating towards ensuring the necessary liquidity for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. As to where this bill is addressed, I would say that it is addressed to very small entities. To natural persons for the establishment of micro-enterprises, natural persons carrying out individual business, natural persons belonging to vulnerable social groups, beneficiaries of public policy implementation programmes, natural persons for expenditure related directly or indirectly to their education or retraining or apprenticeship relationship and, finally, to social and solidarity economic operators. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill would be expected to find acceptance of the whole political world. On the contrary, there have been criticisms of a merciful opposition, I would say envy criticisms, because the New Democracy Government is doing so. "Why should the Bank of Greece control?" was heard by SYRIZA. Is there a more reliable body than the Bank of Greece? I have heard today that the Secretariat-General for Trade will be able to control it. If we brought the General Secretariat of Trade, you would tell us, "But is it possible for a General Secretariat to do control while it should be the Bank of Greece?" Finally let's agree on that. It has also been said why only two of the shareholders are controlled and not all of them. And that, I think, has been settled, because everyone is asking for something. However, let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the main objective of the bill is to fund and not to check. There are other control procedures. We want rapid funding, immediate enhancement of liquidity, life breath and not a bureaucratic process. There was criticism of the interest rate. Obviously there is concern. And it makes it possible for the Minister of Finance to be able to set a wall. But in that we have not heard any rivals from the Opposition. Some colleagues have said here that for your day it was reported...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u47	We agreed! It's our proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u48	Okay, now you've agreed on this. But, if you'll excuse me, you've agreed after we've been discussing all these days. Yes, now you've agreed. So you agree to have a plaque. However, I would like to tell you that nothing more specific could be said or put forward by anyone. We were talking about a 14% reported on your day, for which I did not understand how to take a stand. And in my opinion, you couldn't get a seat, set a interest rate. In the end, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you also said that this bill was prepared by you. Why didn't you bring it after you got it ready? You didn't believe it and you couldn't implement it? Didn't you assess it as an emergency? Why? You just didn't make it? And what did you not catch up with? If we all agree that it is a bill necessary, we should have voted yesterday and left the rest. And since it's your bill, why didn't you support it from the first moment? You've been upset for days and you've spoken - listen now! - for long-term rope bills because it has been discussed for three weeks. Other times when bills come and end within the week, you tell us why they end in the week. Now that this has lasted from the committee, from the beginning until now, three weeks, you tell us why it lasted three weeks. So you're talking about a bill of time. You also say that it is the fruit of the previous government's efforts. Of course, it has been said in the debate that there has also been a leap in the area of transparency. Especially in those days when everyone is dealing with'magasies' and'magasies', I would say, ladies and gentlemen, that you are not talking about a lot of transparency! "In the house of the hanger they don't talk about rope"! These days, let's be a little more careful. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So you're swaying on some, in my opinion, secondary issues, because you're looking to figure out a way you might be differentiated somewhere. This well-known opposition to the opposition, in my opinion, should never be applied, much more to this bill. Why this bill? Because market operators are demanding it. Common sense requires that. We will vote for it, not because the government brings it, but because it is a breath of life for the entrepreneurship and business of thousands of our fellow citizens. In the end, we have never claimed that there will be no problems with the implementation of this plan. However, when we have the possibility not in five years' time, but in two, to evaluate how this plan has been implemented, to have the implementation report and to identify any omissions and responsibilities, you understand that in the end we are inclined to be effective in this project.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u49	Finish, Mr. Comrade, please. You've reached eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u50	I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, they can be assessed, Minister, and how much loans these institutions have given, to see if they serve the objective for which they were created or simply operating a little pirately. Because you must not doubt that there will also be some bodies who think a little wicked. For what is wicked and for what is distorted, we are here to correct it. And let's keep the half full glass, let's keep the hopeful message this government initiative gives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u51	Thank you too, Mr Vlacho. Mr Evangelos Apostleou has the floor from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u52	Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we have made one thing clear from the outset: that our country needed the micro-credits, which is institutionalised by the bill under discussion. We had launched this as well after the establishment of the Development Bank. In fact, we had also completed the consultation phase. If that's what's bothering you, it's your problem! The question, however, is not only whether these credits will be taken over, but whether they will also prevail transparent and non-Russian rationale in their management and, above all, whether they will be served by the banking area. Bankers may say that the protection grid they offer by the end of 2020 will exceed 17 billion, but reality shows others. Listen, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, what efficiency the red loan arrangement that was adopted six months ago will be effective at the beginning of 2021, as valid financial leaves of your own party say. The level of those debts in the hands of third parties - the known funds, that is - in order to be sold out will reach 50 000 000 euros. If we do not add those of the rural area, of cooperatives and individuals in the PQA, they will exceed EUR 53,000,000. For all these debts, in the recoverys that will be made, the banks that have granted them will have no involvement in the strategy to be followed. And most likely we have auction explosions. Increase of divestments will surely have. After the removal of the first residence protection on 1 July, everything is open. Consider the situation where farmers will find themselves when the auctioning of their mortgaged properties hits them. More specifically, Minister, when it comes to properties in which mortgages have been registered retrospectively, on the basis of a privilege of the former ATE that the Ice Bay Plenary Assembly has already declared it illegal, but the state does not abolish it. And what about the agricultural property, which is essential for the continuation of operation, not only of natural persons, but also of rural organizations, when it is divested? What forecasts have the banks received for the new red loans that will arise from the coronary and what amount is calculated? Is it not right to calculate them with a 7.5% recession prediction for the Greek economy? We are talking about opacity and rosphetological logic, not only because this attitude of yours is known in recent media aids to deal with the coronary, but also because there are similar behaviours with the Development Bank's programmes to provide loans either at a subsidised rate or with the guarantee of the public. Indeed, the problem of the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises is very serious, especially after the gradual lifting of the restrictive measures. The measures taken so far by the Government to strengthen the liquidity of these enterprises appear to be insufficient to cover the majority of the businesses struggling for their survival in conditions of extremely low demand. Our country, ladies and gentlemen, is entering the next 2021-2027 programming period, with considerable funds available to it, which must be used in a concrete and concrete manner. That is why, firstly, it is necessary to set up a mechanism that can sufficiently plan, approve and supervise the implementation of actions that will help these existing businesses and, secondly, to design and implement new strategies that will aim to increase the GDP of Greece. And when we talk about production in our country, we basically mean the agri-food sector, which has not only covered the food needs of the country in this difficult period, but also showed that it can support development. Of course, that's not all simple. From a technical point of view, some EUR 32 million, 000, will have to be allocated from 2021 to 2024 from the Recovery Fund and EUR 20 000,000,000 from the NSRP 2021 to 2027, i.e. about EUR 52,000,000 over the next seven years, namely EUR 7,00 million per year, when - until now - it is understandable - we have a difficult to absorb EUR 2,000,000 per year. If we add to that the EUR 18 000 000 in the rural area, which, of course, has been initiated in the context of the CAP, all these funds will start to land in the first quarter of 2021. Until then, that is, six months have elapsed. Time is short, and we certainly need to prepare and take advantage of these possibilities. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I am closing my speech with one point. We will closely monitor the management of the European Commission's Recovery Fund, up to the last euro, and we will not allow you to do the same as you did with the media aid.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Apostle. Mr. Kedicoglou Simeon is called from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with a little mention of the issue which unfortunately prevails in time, and I am sorry to say, because it is not pleasant, but no one can remain indifferent to what is revealed in the action of the para-state and outlawing circuits that have reached up to people in higher political positions. Feelings certainly vary, depending on the political spectrum, from embarrassment and shameful to indignation and anger. The fact is that this issue cannot and must not remain so, first and foremost because it is a question of democracy. It is a matter of protecting our culture, because there has been an attempt to erroneous the culture, since there has been an attempt to eliminate the discrimination of powers, there has been an attempt to guide justice. We shall, however, move on to the issues of the economy which are also extremely important in the functioning of a democracy, because economic tolerance and hardship are negative factors in its operation. The desperate one is easily lured by populists, preachers of totalitarian solutions. Historical examples are many. Economic growth, wealth production and wider distribution have been a priority of our Government since the beginning. The results were fast and impressive, both in numbers - indicative of the vertical decline in the interest rate of Greek bonds - and in citizens with the optimism index rising sharply and the hope of returning as a dominant emotion. But then the coronary crisis erupted, putting new obstacles to unprecedented world conditions. Again Greece has responded better than most of our European partners, both in health, as indicated by the degree of disease spread and economic, as demonstrated by the less recession in relation to the European average. In fact, GEMH's figures on business opening and closing in March - May show that we did better than last year's no coronary. The problems, however, are great, the conditions are unprecedented because of the global dimension of the crisis and innovative solutions are needed. Critical bet is to strengthen liquidity and the government has promoted the use of seven tools for this purpose. First tool, the refundable tax advance. Secondly, the suspension of tax and insurance obligations. Thirdly, the interest subsidy for all business loans in affected sectors. Fourthly, the working capital under the Entrepreneurship Fund 2. Fifth, the Guarantee Fund of the Greek Development Bank. Sixth, the imminent generous reduction in the advance tax on businesses. And the seventh instrument is what we are discussing, the new institutional framework for microfinance, a framework that the previous government has started to shape, but has not finally implemented. We move on to its legislation by including significant improvements, additions and corrections. It should be stressed that the government has declared itself open to proposals of counter-population, as well as to stakeholders. It must be as effective as possible because it concerns too many people at risk of marginalisation and social exclusion. It concerns micro-enterprises, individual enterprises, individual training to improve the job position, and vulnerable social groups. It comes to cover a wide-ranging financial gap and I believe that we all agree on the need to achieve these objectives. This new framework encourages every citizen to take his own luck, to be able to set up his own small business. In this spirit, I would like to call on the Government to place the greatest emphasis on the agri-food sector and, indeed, in a new way, on its approach. One of the lessons of the economic consequences of the health crisis is that we need to change the structure of our economy so that it does not rely so much on a pillar, tourism, because it shows that we are so much more vulnerable. We must, with our design, guide the business activities in other areas that we have comparative advantages and such a sector is the agri-food sector. We must help to highlight the farmer - a businessman as an economic and a social model. In other words, we must provide him with geotechnical support and financial information and the possibility of financing for the farmer to then make business decisions in a way that is, as I said, possible to finance it. In this spirit, it would be useful to consider and use the proposal of the Chamber of Economics of Greece for the development of the primary sector. It must be the production of agro-foodstuffs intensified technology and not just the increase in basic primary production. The aim must be to increase the cigarette packed products produced, processed and exported. Successful examples there are many in the world. New Zealand, for example, produces agricultural products worth EUR 7 billion and exports products worth EUR 23 billion, while Greece produces products worth EUR 12 billion and exports products only EUR 5 billion. We could increase our Gross Domestic Product by 25 billion euros if we follow successful examples, such as New Zealand or the Netherlands and Denmark, to talk about our European partners as well. The proposal from the Chamber of Economic Affairs, which has a central role to play in the creation of a private body for agricultural exports involving the public sector, is an innovative partnership between the public and private sectors, which will operate on the basis of the principles of contractual agriculture and which will gather, transform and export agricultural production, is a very promising proposal, Minister. It is worth studying and it is worth adopting in our government planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u55	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, and especially for keeping time. Mrs Domna Michailidou, State Secretary for Labour, has the floor to develop an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Two provisions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of the Social Solidarity and Welfare Sector are being put forward in this amendment. The first provision concerns the amendment of the law on the allowance of mountainous and disadvantaged areas. The amendment of Article 27 of Law 3016/2002 in particular is directly linked to the operation of an electronic platform, which will facilitate the granting of this allowance. Here I would like to remind you that for the years 2018 and 2019, the previous leadership of the Ministry had not paid the mountain and disadvantaged allowances. So what our leadership has done is that the allowance for mountains and less-favoured areas for 2018 has already been paid, the applications for 2019 have been opened and the payment with this article has been made. The payment of the allowance for 2019 and 2020 will be made through the online platform. So this electronic platform simplifies the procedures for beneficiaries, makes their lives easier so that unnecessary procedures are not needed, but also for the OPEK staff themselves, which are removed from all the administrative burden they had to follow until first. The proposed article adds the citizens of the European Economic Area and of the Swiss Confederation to the beneficiaries of this income support in full alignment with Union law. The less-favoured areas for the grant of the allowance are again identified, adapted to the recent amendment to the relevant list of less-favoured areas, as set out in the Agricultural Development Programme of Greece, approved by the European Commission’s 28-2-2019 Implementing Decision. The allowance shall be granted to the inhabitants of these less-favoured areas from the year 2020. Further to this article, for the sake of clarity and in the law the income criteria for granting the aid, as they have been established by a series of ministerial decisions since 2002, which established this income benefit. In addition, in accordance with the applicable rules, as set out in Law 4659/2020, the criterion of permanent residence in mountain and disadvantaged areas is established by the declarations on income taxation for the last two years prior to the submission of the application for the benefit of mountain and disadvantaged areas. This will already apply to applications relating to the payment of the aid from 2019, so that with the forthcoming operation of the electronic platform the applications can be directly handled by that year. In so far as the aid is aimed at supporting our economically weakest and most vulnerable fellow citizens, who are permanent residents of these mountainous and disadvantaged regions, we explicitly provide that, in controlling the income presumption in annual family income, the minimum guaranteed income, the child's allowance, the education or vocational training allowance for the unemployed, as well as the sums paid by the OPECA as benefits to disabled people are not counted. With the promoted regulation and the relevant Ministerial Decision that will be adopted directly, in conjunction with the operation of the digital platform, we will in the next period achieve the payment of that allowance for both 2019 and 2020, while ensuring that its payment will henceforth take place in a timely and for the benefit of the citizens. This visible prospect is particularly important in the performance of the state, taking into account that the allowance has just been paid to these vulnerable categories of people for 2018. With the second provision of this amendment we are now prolonging the contracts of auxiliary staff working in the state welfare structures. We are talking about welfare centers throughout the territory, the National Centre for Social Solidarity, the Evrytanian Chronic Disease Treatment, the Education and Rehabilitation Centre for Blinds, the KEAT, and the National Foundation for Deafness, the EIC. These posts had already been set up under Law 4578/2018. These positions had not been 'driven'. In August 2019, when we took over the Ministry's leadership, we ran these positions. However, the procedures for calling and hiring through AIP have been delayed and delayed due to the large number of posts planned by a supervised body in conjunction with the complexity of the categories and sectors that exist in this decision. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] I don't want a minute more, Mr President. Although the notices on the recruitment of permanent staff in these privileged structures were published in due course, the exceptional conditions resulting from the proliferation of the COVID-19 pandemic worked impracticably in the course of the administrative procedure following the publication of the results, thus making it impossible to complete it until 30 June 2020. The exceptional reasons for the public interest that imposed the amendment of Article 35 of Law 4578/2018 and the employment of temporary staff of those bodies by 30 June 2020 make it all the more necessary to continue the work of temporary staff due to the conditions and consequences of the pandemic, given that our most vulnerable citizens are hosted in our prosperous structures. It is therefore necessary to employ temporary staff up to the establishment of their provisional lists of nominees and the recruitments referred to in paragraph 1, and in any case not beyond 31 December 2020, in order to ensure the proper functioning of those pro-active structures and the uninterrupted provision of care and care services by their existing temporary staff. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u57	We thank the Minister, too. Mr. Arvanitides from the Change Movement is called at the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u58	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the title of the bill gives me a parallel to the issue of microfinance with the issue of the development of renewable energy projects in our country. This is because I have been pointing out to the Government for a long time, in relation to the development of renewable energy sources, that small energy producers must be strengthened and supported, that priority should be given to energy communities, particularly in this difficult situation of the economic recession. It is what we call the Change Movement 'democracy of energy'. The government's choice is to prejudge the few large energy schemes rather than to allow small photovoltaic and small wind turbines to be expanded by autoproducers. So, in line with your choices, Minister, in energy your choices are moving, but in omission this time, and in the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises. You are driving things into business so that there are few and strong in each industry, of course, unlike the need at this time for the pandemic to support many, support the market, support businesses, weak citizens. The voices of anguish from the GSE, the ETUC, the chambers of commerce and the trade union, which were heard at the hearing of operators, show an image of failure to provide liquidity, through the programmes that have been announced and which unfortunately do not reach the real economy. In addition to the intentions and shortcomings of the regulations made by the government, however, very serious questions are also raised about the role of the banking system itself. Unfortunately, there is a lot of talk about the banks not only putting back on the effort to bring up our national economy and businesses in this crisis, but they also undermine any hope of business survival. Minister, the examples are so much that each Member of Parliament can take you into account dozens of business cases that they cannot afford to be financed by the banks or by the banks, thereby violating any concept of good faith. For example, in our recent visit as a political body in western Macedonia, he was quoted by a businessman that the banks themselves searched him, asked him to give him money without needing it, refused, they called him back, they called him back, they called him back, and he didn't need it, and when he said "all right" and they agreed to 100 grand, they said, "40% you have to leave it in deposit to the bank!" These are not serious things and this money is deprived of someone else who really needs them. If banks try to build a financial product with deposits to increase their profitability, that is another perception. The examples are countless specific companies and banks. I know of course that this businessman called the Minister's office, Mr Georgiadis, Mr Georgiadis - to his honour - took him back late in the evening and what he said was that he would try to convince the banks to have another policy. We're talking about unheard of mockery. So without any result, the financial instruments that you have announced. The banks have neither implemented the government's request for participation in the financing programmes of enterprises in the White 'TTENSIA'. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the Change Movement are obviously in favour of any tool that increases liquidity towards micro-enterprises and vulnerable groups in a sustainable and transparent way, but only if this does not work as a pretext or as an alibi that bloodstuffs simply ends the work of the government. On the contrary, yes. Now you must start your work, to see the course, the outcome of your legislative work, check its implementation and its response from the market, businesses and banks and, if necessary, make immediate corrective moves, such as corrective moves you have to do in connection with the reduction of the ENPY. In Article 35, unfortunately, instead of definitively abolishing the supplementary tax on agricultural parcels, as we have repeatedly asked you as a Change Movement, you are simply suspending it for a year. As always, you do half the jobs, "seeing and doing" in the frustration, dealing with and the evolution of the pandemic, in the Greek, in each of your political choices. And it seems that this philosophy of "half-work" characterizes you not only in ENVIA, but also in the emblematic investment - according to you - of the Greek. I shall now close my speech, Mr President. Article 67 of Law 4663/2020, which you recently had to modify, within two or three months of the vote, laid down the process of demolition of the buildings within the Greek. It is such a stress to show a bulldozer, which when you saw that the regulation was not walking, you saluted the demolitions, talking about partial demolitions, made by ministerial decisions, so that one year after last year's elections you could show a bulldozer to tear down something - and let it be half - in Greek. Attention! Not a bulldozer to dig and build something, but a bulldozer to tear something down. So your long-prepared government, which would put bulldozers in the Greek one week after her election, which would take off growth, was forced to amend her own recent law to show half of her own work with partial demolitions. So your half-courts, gentlemen of the New Democracy, are no longer convinced. With halves and half-debts from all those involved in this visional investment, neither Greek nor Greek nor this bill provides liquidity and support for small businesses in our country. That is why we call for you to be more serious both in the announcement of projects and economic indicators and in the monitoring of the spread of the necessary liquidity on the market and in business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr Arvanitides, for keeping time. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Tsakalotos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. I won't say much about the bill. I think there has been an exhaustive debate, a lot of views have been heard, criticisms, many things have been incorporated. There are still some objections to some parts, but I think it's a good bill. I think, Minister, you will be watching this, you will also have feedback that it is going well. There's the change for the interest rate there. Let me make a speech on the general economic situation. And the first question, Mr Zabves, is if you remember - you were not a government at that time - what Mr Skylakakis said in his speech in the 2019 budget, where he said that the pillow is 'the biggest gave of economic policy' and he had wondered 'what we wanted to do with the 37 billion pillow'. I should like to know, Mr Zabvé, if you agree with this question from your colleague, and if you can answer it because there is a pillow. We wanted it to build the economy at a difficult time. We wanted it, to support workers, businesses, the new generation. That's why we made a pillow to leave it for a difficult day. Because we are not like previous governments - I have been saying since the 19th century, not even recently - who have never left anything to the band so that the next government can deal with a problem. And I say all this because Mr Stagioras said on 23 June that you have spent the pillow, but cash assets have increased - I think he said the figure 37.5 billion. What do you think of the pillow? The 'buffer', as you know, in English we call it 'buffer'. The essence of "buffer", "cushion", is that you spend in bad times and then you replace it in good times. In fact, buffer, you know, we have it from international economics for countries based on an export product and it needs when there are price changes, so that situations are not too difficult when the price of this product falls. I do not understand why it should be right now - or at least on 23 June - EUR 37.6 billion. Now you shouldn't have spent any more to make up for it later? Especially after your own assessment that the Recovery Fund is a very serious case, so will you have something that comes in the future, where what we spend from the "cushion" will be a bridge for 2021? We do, of course, have our concerns that you spend a lot of time in direct assignments, in secret funds, on Mr. Pecha's list. Mr Zavez, I would like you again to ask Mr Stakoura how much processing this list of EUR 20 billion is needed. So, how much work does it take to inform the Greek people where they went, what channels, how much money did they go and we can look into it? Isn't the delay too much? Especially now, when we have a final state in which the 'raison d' etre' is supposed to be quickly able to solve these problems and we are still waiting? But our main argument for the pillow is that it's like a household. I know and you know that, many times, the proportions of a household's economy are not easy or correct and what happens in macro-economics for various reasons that we could explain to non-economic colleagues. But in this case, a housewife who has savings and is in a difficult situation and has a huge plumbing problem, shouldn't he have spent that time? Because if he does not spend and there is a flood and the woods and shells are destroyed, he will in the end have to spend much more. So a very big question arises. The very big question is why you do not spend on the pillow and say it is EUR 37.5 billion. Because in my perception, the pillow is not meant to be the same. In our view, this is to spend and reduce in bad times and make up for it when we have good times. I therefore do not doubt that you had to go out on the markets and raise the ceiling on the insects to find new resources, but I doubt that you are going to stay where we left it a little longer - a little further now that it is bad times. And I answer the question why you're doing this. I think the answer is very easy, because your pillow is not the pillow we left. Your pillow is the workers and workers in this country. This results, firstly, in the suspension of the contract which you practically allow employers to choose unilaterally when the worker will return to work. In fact, you don't have any limitations on whether he'll come back, since he can fire him at any time. And the commitment to maintaining the number of jobs does not say anything because it is very short, while it can be combined with a reduction in wages. It is a pillow for the workers and for a second reason. There is the "CONTACT", where you enter the reduction of working hours and the flexible working relationships from the "Window", as well as the workers are for you as a hammerstorm to absorb shocks of the crisis. Finally, we also have the disorganisation of the control mechanisms. So you have a pillow. And the pillow for you are the workers themselves, because the crisis must be paid for by the workers. They're the ones who will pay her with lower wages, with worse employment relationships. And that is what stands out for us, because we, despite all the difficulties we have had for four and a half years, fought until the last minute for inequality indicators - now showing the numbers - of poverty, social exclusion and incomes. This is our big difference, because for us they were never the workers and the workers of the macro-economic system, and that is why we built the 'cushion' system, so that it is not the hamperer, the pillow, the workers and the workers. Finally, we reach every completely different one. Since for you, workers and workers are the windstorm, since you know that with what you are doing, inequality, poverty and social exclusion will increase, since there will be lower incomes and worse jobs, how do you respond? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. It won't be any more. You respond tomorrow with a new bill that in this crisis will restrict the demonstrations. This is the answer of authoritarianism, because you know what comes, you know the reactions that will exist. And what are you doing? You say there must always be one responsible for all the protests. Really, at the Polytechnic University, who will be responsible, the Rector of the Polytechnic? Do something that is completely unconstitutional. And you haven't watched much in the House, Mr. Zabves. Very rarely I have raised issues of unconstitutionalism, but it is certain that it is unconstitutional - we also have workers here, I see - to ban spontaneous demonstrations. Is that how we're going? Is that the New Democracy's answer, that is, 'the pillow' for workers and workers, for workers and workers, and at the end, if they don't like them, we also have a suppression to stop the demonstrations? My last question, Mr Zabwe, is this: I read the legislative improvement that you have just brought to us an hour ago, which says about the second subparagraph of paragraph 1, where after the words 'favourable social groups', the words 'with at least 10 years of tax residence in Greece' are added. So, the people, the immigrants that have come are the target. I do not believe, Mr Zabwe, that this is your amendment. I very much believe that it is Mr Stakoura's amendment. However, I am sure that it is an amendment by Mr Samaras, Mr Georgiadis, Mr Ploris, Mr Kyranakis. This is not how we go in front of Greece, when even in microcredits we have to give our certificates that whatever we bring there will also be something to show that we are far-right or build the identity of the right so that we can survive in the difficult economic conditions that are coming. I shall conclude, Mr President - and I thank you - with this: no matter what limitations you may put, you will not be able to stop the new generation that it claims for the environment, for rights, for education, for inequalities and for the future. As someone said - I think it was Breech - 'It is not violently the waters of a river, but the banks that restrict them'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, too, Minister. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr Heitas has the floor, and then Mr Kelles will speak. There's been a change of Mr. Kelles and Mrs. Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today is a very important day for the Greek Solution, another day that has been credited for a very great success. A party that entered the Greek Parliament in order to put forward proposals and make productive opposition and control over the government has achieved something very important today. We have been calling for fifteen - twenty days since this bill entered the committees, for absurdity, for an article 8 which was almost provocative and creepy for the Greeks and Greeks, to be entitled to asylum seekers whose examination is pending, up to EUR 25 000, a micro-loans loan. It was so challenging that it was beyond all of us. Today, after many days, Minister, you come and take this back with a legislative improvement, thankfully, we will. Thank God you're listening to us, and these pressures are picking up a place. This is why we say that our unique goal and guidance is only the good of our country, the good of Greece, the good of Greeks and Greeks. Nothing more. Because we cannot in a poor country where its citizens suffer from giving as a 25 000 loan a micro-loans loan - let it be from a private person, I do not care - to a guy who came here and I do not know if he is legal or illegal. It's unbelievable. So you come today after many days, after you heard the President of the Greek Solution, our speaker, our speakers, all of us who have been talking for so many days, and get it back. We believe this, Minister - and we have said it in private - that you take it back and fill in "with at least 10 years of tax residence in Greece". That's something. Of course, I should like to tell you that we are not going to vote for the bill, because it remains - despite this addition, the legislative improvement - and the taco-culture and deficiting and inadequate and ineffective. But I want to say this to close with it. Because it cannot be said in this Chamber that it is the country that each one wants to say what he wants. As long as we were calling out, Minister, for this shameful article that enabled the illegals to take 25 grand - they were illegal, the request was processed, we did not know, nor lawful nor illegal yet - I remember now the last Friday that was accused of us by the Deputy Minister of Migration, Mr Kumucasos, and told the Greek Solution to finally stop, he says, the unconscious lies, there is no such provision that provides for 25 000 euros for asylum seekers. So I return it to him in the face and call him and Mr. Kumucaco and everyone else... At least, guys, read. If you don't know, let them know. We don't say anything to luck. And you cannot call a party liars and that it is politically exploiting an issue that does not exist. There was also a sample of it that today you came and took it back happily. I do not understand what progress is being made in Greece. Where was SYRIZA and the parliamentary representative disturbed? What was he bothered about? Progress what is in Greece? How will Greece progress? People who come without having the right to stay in the country to have the right to access a bonus of EUR 25,000? Is that progress for the country? Are we going insane? For God's sake. What Greece are we talking about? We are talking about a bankrupt Greece, gentlemen of SYRIZA and of the New Democracy. A Greece without primary production. We've heard that too now. We are talking here from July 7 about primary production of the fourth and fifth generations, we are talking about all of this, we have developed it. Today I have heard from my colleague the example of Israel, the Dutch example. Guys, this is our program. It's our schedule, it's our livelihood, it's our job. For God's sake! It's not bad to take it, at least say it's not yours or that you're on the right track even late, it's something. With a country, therefore, with its citizens, Mr President, in desperation and these situations with unemployment, and all these economic problems will become even more difficult, they will deteriorate from September, and then we have this whole problem, the problem of the break-up of the social fabric of our country, with the huge problem of smuggling, and we are now engaged in a bill that we will discuss and then, with the marriages of the homosexuals. That's what our country is dealing with. And decide in the New Democracy. Are you in favour or against? This is where everyone does not express their opinion. Here we have parties, political groups, agenda and programme. Are you in favour or against? If you're in favour, you're all right. We're not gonna say what you're gonna be. We are, for example, the ones. But if you're against, you can't be in favor. That's not a party. That's a mosaic. And don't tell me that in democracy everything is allowed. You were not voted on by the neo-democratics, the Greek citizens... Where is the floor, religion, family? Is this a family to marry Lakis and Savvas? What kind of family is this? Let me get this straight. If this is a family, if you welcome this and want with the bogeyman to formalize it, do it. We are abstaining from these things. We're far away. So, on the one hand, you can't play it progressively, on the other, lovers of the "fashion, religion, family". Decide what the New Democracy is. On the one hand, you cannot lift a fly on your sword, Mr President - and I shall end - for the history of this place and, on the other, put Mrs Angelopoulos on the other, into heroes of 1921. You cannot, on the one hand, play it with red lines and hard neo-democrats, on the other hand, have voted for Mrs Sakellaropoulos and say that Agathonisi is far from the mainland.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u63	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u64	I shall conclude, Mr President. Decide exactly what you are. You cannot on the one hand defend the line of Dokos, ELIAMEP and all the others who blame Greek colonists, Greek military officers, our Armed Forces, but, on the other, also play ultrapatriots. What are you? Decide what you are. Bilingualism is not helping. And I shall end, Mr President, really with what I saw and raised today. And they are the consequences of your own agreement, which you applaud, you have taken from hand the monster they created here and you are raising it. I am referring to the suppressed Ambassadors' agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u65	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've taken 50% more of your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u66	I shall conclude, Mr President, in thirty seconds. You have my word. Mr President, are you aware that in an official document in the negotiations between the Ministry of National Defence of Skopje and Greece for military cooperation in 2020, the Skopje are asking to be called in international relations with Greece MKD (Macedonia), instead of the RNM (Republic of North Macedonia) which are both shameful and merciless? These are the consequences of the monster that you devastated.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u67	The President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Varoufakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first I shall begin by thanking the government. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for this unique moment of unintentional honesty in the time of the Memorandum of Greece. By bringing to Parliament and to the country a system that has been rendered only in Bangladesh, even though inadvertently you admit that ten years of monuments have turned this country into a country of what we once said, the third world. And as you see, through the process of drafting the fifth memorandum, which you certainly know is on the scalpels, this memorial process will deepen even further the dedevelopment, making Greece glorious or at least some will think that it makes Greece a glorious field for the interesting and excellent idea of Mohammed Yuns. The vision of Mohamed Yunus, as we speak of micro-loans, micro-credits, micro-financing, was indeed excellent and interesting. In a country such as Bangladesh where there was a total lack of small businesses in large parts of the country, where there were peasants without access not only to the banking system, but not even to the monetary system - they were outside the monetary system, they were working, working, suffering, founded, without even passing money through their hands, in villages without phones - the idea of Mohamed Yuns, on which the known Grameen Bank was built, with which Mohamed Yuns shared, as you know, Nobel finance, is this. In a village that has neither phones, money, banks, nor entrepreneurship we choose a serious, proud, moral woman - women always - and we strengthen it in two ways: first, with a mobile phone, so that we can create a network of villagers who will use it for their telecommunications and at the same time, a micro-credit to start a small business. The Grameen Bank of Yuns was a bank that invested in what we call "social entrepreneurship". It did not aim to maximise the profit, aimed at a minimum profit so that that bank could be viable. However, the aim was to develop such villages in Bangladesh. He worked the system for a decade. It was extremely low the percentage of red loans, loans that these proud women peasants did not return. Some small businesses were created. These women were selling embroidery, doing something like that. But within a decade we have once again seen the destructive work of what I call 'a paradox of confidence'. The moral basis of this transaction between Grameen and the village’s proud wife was created on the basis of relationships of trust. But once this relationship begins to be more lucrative, both for the bank and for this proud woman, this confidence begins to break, especially with the entry into the market of micro-loans, micro-credit companies, which did not have the same goal as Mohamed Yuns, which was the social development of these villages. How much I would like, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, to be at a corner of the conference room when you are here, discuss them and decide that what Greece needs in 2020 is micro-loans, micro-credits, micro-finance. Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, I referred to Bangladesh. I don't mean you're making Greece Bangladesh, because you don't deserve this compliment. Your Bangladeshi government colleagues, as well as the Bangladeshi technocrats, are very much in front of you. They've left you 20 years behind. The degeneration in Bangladesh, to which I referred briefly, led the Bangladeshi Government in 2013 to pass the so-called 'Grameen Bank Act', a law specifically for Gramen Bank. I wish your bill had even reached 50% of the documentation of the bill passed by the Bangladeshi Parliament in 2013. There, Grameen Bank has been nationalised, Minister. There, Grameen Bank has been operating since then under social economy rules, which are not even in the minds of the articles of your bill. In Bangladesh, Mr. Minister, the guards are aware, unlike you. In Greece this idea will not travel well. Ladies and gentlemen of the Complex, in Greece, the issue is not the creation of a zero of small and medium-sized enterprises, which was the vision of Yunus. The issue is to protect and help existing enterprises, small and medium-sized, to modernise and start producing in a way that makes them viable. The issue is not a potential business plan that does not have a telephone or a bank account. In Greece today almost everyone has a mobile phone, men and women. Almost everyone has a bank account. The point is, they've drowned in red loans and they can't pay back their phone bill. It's not about strengthening proud women to get out of the village house. We owe a debt to Andreas Papandreou in the early 1980s. The issue is the protection of women today within an expanded, though a poor market system, which crushes them and from which members of their family are asked to protect themselves, working day and night in and outside their homes. Contrary to Bangladesh, Minister, in Greece a "bombing" of tuco-culculpture micro-loans will neither strengthen entrepreneurship with new businesses nor brake the bankruptcy of existing enterprises nor brake the poorness of the small and medium-sized Greeks in general. It'll just bring new poverty. He will create, build, build another debt prison within the debt-government "Greece". Do you want a micro-enterprise, Minister? This requires freedom of existing small and medium-sized enterprises from dues, from red loans and, of course, from all the micro-loans with which you will bomb them. They need liquidity without a coupon, they need liquidity without a new debt. How's that gonna happen? We, as a PARTA25, have recently come to the consultation of a comprehensive proposal for a law with institutional areas, which answers this question. Instead of "HRAKLI", which works for the funds and liquidates red loans and small and medium-sized enterprises, we propose the creation of a public private debt management company, which we call it "PESSEAS". Instead of deferrals of taxes, contributions and instalments that create suffocation to businesses that are not yet in operation, we propose "haircuts" of these dues, instalments and contributions. It is a little scandal hidden, in the form of a small 'gift' for the oligarchy - each of your bills, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, also has a gift for a small master in it - Article 26, which abolishes Law 128/1975, which effectively annulled the contribution of the systemic banks to the loans of legal persons governed by public law, the municipalities and the regions. It's a scandalous "gift", which you managed to hide in this bill. Instead of these gifts in oligarchy, we believe and ambassador and present a concrete proposal for a law in all consistent and compatible with European law for public control of banks. Instead of selling the surplus in the oligarchy without borders, we propose in our proposal to include TIAD in the Development Bank already in place, so that the public property is not sold, but converted into a guarantee for the creation by our own Development Bank of Investment Flows, both in the private and in the public sector. Instead of the involvement of the so-called Independent Public Income Authority, which, of course, only is not independent, because it is fully dependent on the troika and the oligarchy, we advocate an autonomous General Secretariat for Public Revenue, both autonomously by the Minister and by the Troika, with permanent anticipation of tax evasion in real time. Instead of the micro-loans of tachyphy and the expansion through the micro-credits of debt-government, we propose a system of financial transactions between individuals and public. Do you want to get a "flavour", Minister, what are you bringing to Greece? You are not going to Bangladesh, you are going to South Africa, where Grameen's model has shifted with catastrophic results. You want to go to a more developed country? Go to Missouri, United States, where Grameen works and you will see how these microcredits sow the bankruptcy, bankruptcy of the helpless, weak in countries like the United States. The "bombing" of the micro-loans that you bring while liquidating small and medium-sized enterprises through "HRAKLE" is the worst basis on which we can build as a people, as citizens, our resistance to the austerity wave of the new recession, which will be austerity since 2021, in which the Minister of Finance consented to you on June 11th at Eurogroup, committing to a primary surplus of time. Bear the citizens of a developing country's debt burden in a new form of poverty, in a new form of a third world, from which countries such as Bangladesh have managed to escape a little - a little bit. Really, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, where is your preservation? Is the new festivities a conservative policy, which will take the form of food donations? Is it a neoliberal policy to try to rebuild debt bubbles, which have been blown up with micro-loans? So where is your conservation and neoliberalism? Did you leave him, forget him where SYRIZA left over his left wing and PASOK forgot his reunion? At least support the amendment tabled by the rapporteur to us for a limit on interest rates for these tugs. But you do not, because as with red loans you are bound by these parasites. And all this while you're working on the fifth memorial and austerity wave it brings. Really, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, at what stage of refusal are you today? Because last time we were here, you were talking about -3% recession. I saw that Mr Stagioras sent to the European Commission on 24 June his forecasts of a recession between -5% and -8%. When we were talking about -10% and -15% since March, you were looking at us as if we were saying something weird. Now, what stage are you at? Are you in this undoubted Mr Stournara, who dared to come here to the House on 29 June and to present to the President of Parliament a prediction of -5.8% recession? I like corporal too. Mr. Stournaras had all his decimals missing! The International Monetary Fund makes it clear that the entire euro area as a whole, on average, will have a recession of over 10% and that Greece will be the country in which the recession will hit more. Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, go from the failure to the cynical lie. In March I believe that you do not understand macroeconomic enough to predict. Today you're talking about 5% and 6% recession? To colleagues who want to know, and to the Couple - because I am sure you want, you are not responsible for the line of your government's cynical lies - I will mention a few points which I think are important in assessing the situation in which we are, apart from party controversy: Firstly, the Government and the European Commission have underestimated deadly, I would say, the dynamics of bankruptcy, the impact of the closure of one company on the chances of another company closing down. More important than that. This is a form of multiplier. The troika never did well with the multipliers. You remember that. There's their mea culpa. Secondly - and I must say that I too was surprised at the scale of this problem - we note that throughout the Eurozone - listen to this, Minister, it is important - among the citizens who did not see a reduction in their incomes - the few people, because most of them saw a reduction in their incomes - we had a reduction in expenditure between 25% and 30%. You hadn't calculated that. In general, there is also a third dimension that needs to be considered. Every crisis, whether it is 2008 or today, leaves Europe, European capitalism, if you like, in a worse position than it has found, in relation to the United States and China. This crisis with Covid - 19 will be even more pronounced in this respect. What do I mean? You can see it. This virus gives points to the digital economy in relation to the analogue economy. It gives points to the Facebook and Amazon-type monopolies and throws low companies - mathematics in the industrial industry of natural goods. Tourism or countries based on non-border tourism, external tourism, these countries lose, in relation to countries based, for example, on domestic tourism. Today I have read an article by the European Central Bank about a similar process within the Eurozone. The concern of the European Central Bank in this article - you can read it today - is that the mechanism for the transmission of monetary policy is shattered within the European Union. Why? Because different countries are affected differently, depending on their dependency on the digital or analogue economy, in industries in relation to digital applications, in tourism abroad in relation to the internal market. That's what I imagine is fine letters for the government. Because I see the government really prepares! I see you guys getting ready. Prepare yourself with paradoxical, tear gas and ashes. The paradoxes? What was that now? I see that you are increasing the costs of the paradox by 150% in the appeals of employees and pensioners. For appealing on a question of money, where the Maximum was 1,500 euros, you took it to 5,000 euros. Apparently, you're preparing. Prepare for how to increase the cost of citizens when they require their rights from the state in view of a fifth memorandum. The tear gas? I see the stock is starting to grow. We see the bill you will bring now, banning demonstrations and meetings. As far as ash is concerned, we have two forms of ash. On the one hand, we have the cynicism with which you lie about the macroeconomic elements of the country, about the level of the state budget. Once again I challenge you: What will be the government budget deficit this year? Already "run", if you make a view by December 31st, at -16%. Will you confess to that? This ashes in the eyes the people have learned to take it off. But we see in the media and a second form of ashes, a more horrendous, disgusting ashes. An endured people for so many years observe MPs being masqueraded as prosecutors, all anointing all other guilty ones. And you know, Minister, in a country where everyone anoints all the other guilty ones in the end no one is guilty and finally all that is framed is our parliamentary system in the eyes of the Greek people. The only benefits are those based on hatching the snake’s egg. Does anyone feel ashamed in here that the SIEMENS scandal, NOVARTIS, discovered it by the FBI? Where has the FBI told us what is going on in our country and our country has not been able to create its own body of prosecuting business and political crime that does not drag the MPs, us, you, into committees where we are suddenly presenting ourselves as prosecutors we characterize as other guilty? This reproach that we see on the channels is an ashes in the eyes of the world that eventually only makes it undermines our parliamentaryism and democracy. We have said that we are not taking part in these pre-request committees from the first time. Why? Not because it is not important to make the scandals clear, but because it is not the work of legislative power. We've said it, and we've said it before. This is the position and contribution of Mera25. We are going down with institutional proposals of laws, such as the one I referred to earlier, and institutional interventions to protect democracy. The fifth memorandum poses a great threat to our democracy and the sustainability of this Greek people. As it is for granted, we will continue to table institutional proposals to protect the Greek people and our democracy from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u69	As out of the question, it's what I'm going to say. Mr President, do not forget that our Constitution, but also the Rules of Procedure with the committees of inquiry and the committees of inquiry, do nothing but protect democracy and the rule of law. All they have to do is work properly. And, as a rule, they work properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u71	For a minute we will give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement. And then I will give the floor for three minutes to the Minister, who wants to make some clarifications. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u72	I have listened very carefully, Mr President - and thank you for giving me the floor - the President of Mera25 and because, in discussing this draft law, but like other draft laws of the Ministries of Finance and Development, the dominant issue in this House is liquidity in the market, that is what we are discussing. The pre-disposition to this draft micro-loans law, the negative pre-disposition, was also relevant to me, before I heard, before I saw, before I talked, mainly of academic character. I did not like the thinking and, above all, the comparative data on interest rates throughout Europe. These were working repulsively for me as well. The problems of existing businesses are very great in terms of liquidity, and we all say that the key issue is the banks and how they deal with small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Here comes a tool, a new tool, that creates us problems and questions. Understand it and place it positive or negative. The party that previously ruled and the current ruling, supports this plan, and we, as a Change Movement, support it too. We have great concern about interest rates and concern at first whether this will be implemented in practice. We now see, Mr President, from reports that there is a great deal of pressure for the government to go quickly, because the market needs this money, these little credits. The easy refusal creates the need to say what you're going to put in the position of denial, otherwise the debate is not going anywhere. We are all aware of the same problems, we underline the liquidity in the market, and we wonder: If neither one is counting nor the other is working, what is the solution for the person who needs from 1,000, from 5,000 to 10,000 euros? It is not possible for a party leader to devote so much time to criticism. That's his right. That's right. I'm watching her. I noticed him. But in the quid sector, after my refusal, he cannot give an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u73	Minister, you have the floor for clarification for three minutes with some tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. A great deal has been said in previous speeches, a large range of remarks, and I would say some odd, especially when they come from them, a few years ago, in a responsible position, they played the future of the country in the dice, launching red loans to the heights, an unprecedented situation for a Eurozone country, sending the best flower in this country to the host-four hundreds of thousands of young people have been alienated - having imposed restrictions on the movement of capital and dreaming of a country like the one to which they referred, Bangladesh. Furthermore, the 'HRAKLIS' project does not seem to be very effective, i.e. a unique project to reduce red loans, which were largely created, so that now, with the operation of this government, it would reduce red loans to such an extent that the banking sector would again be able to play the role for which it is intended, i.e. cheap financing in the real economy, to those who kneeled just a few years ago, being in power positions. But, Mr President, I would like to reply more specifically to some of Mr Tsakalotou's remarks, although I would like to say that the various ministers who will follow will also answer the specific questions that have been raised. Although the government handles the issues of cushion and others have already been explained. I would like to say, however, that we are using the existing instruments and funds in the matter. They are committed to a real strategy, because Greece already has significant, unfeasible access to international capital markets at very low rates, which was not possible years ago, because the Greek banks have access, because of the Greek Prime Minister's real success, to the financing of the European Central Bank and because the actions of the Greek Government are now possible and within the next few months, to implement the Recovery Fund, which will give all those necessary resources so that the productive transformation of the country will soon take place within a real dynamic and developmental perspective. Mr President, since Mr Apostlelos specifically referred to the 'HRAKLE', I would like to say that he has done a peculiar amal of ordered pessimism, which does not help the citizen, because he has put the question of HERAKLE together, together with the issues of first-stage protection. I would like to say that at least in the banking sector, the government has shown that it is capable, in time of record, of planning, negotiating, legislating and implementing strategic projects, such as HERAKLE, which has important, specific objectives, to reduce red loans, the large vertebrae of the Greek economy. With such interventions, banks will soon be able to channel liquidity to the real economy. But I would like to say what HERAKLIS is not yet, because some people do not remember it. "HERAKLIS" does not change the ownership status of borrowers. HERAKLIS - again to say this clearly - does not evacuate. The possibilities offered by the securitisations are that loan managers can make much better arrangements than they did before banks and are very important, because many of them are beneficial. Most importantly, however, the "HERAKLIS" enables the locator to be tracked and hunted, prosecuted, malicious payers, battered players. With regard to the first home protection scheme, you have in mind very well that the Government has received a significant extension, that there is a whole bridge system which gives even greater prolongation and that the instalments of vulnerable groups are subsidised and, above all, it favours conscientious borrowers for the first time. That is to say, we have a complete, if you want, framework within which the Greek banking system can again move and see better days. Mr President, I should like to conclude by saying that there is one issue which concerns the abolition of the L.128/1975 contribution for loans made by local authorities. I would like to say that a chronic issue has been resolved in a manner compatible with the decisions of the Court of Auditors and the opinions of the Legal Council of the State, because the general wording of the legislation on State imperfections and the OTAs has raised interpretative questions as to whether these imperfections have been taken and the contribution of Law 128/1975. The LAGs are borrowed, charged with the loan contract with the contribution, and the Court of Auditors annulled the relevant clause. That is the reality and that, if you like, the dystocia is now coming to govern the government. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, too, Minister. The series of speakers now, after the internal changes made to the parties, without losing one's turn, is Mr. Kelles now from the New Democracy, then Mr. Moraite from SYRIZA, Mr. Economou from New Democracy, Mrs. Konnaka from the Communist Party of Greece and Mr. Rusopoulos from New Democracy. Mr. Kelles has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government fully respects its commitments for strong growth, reversed the unfavourable economic climate of the previous years and facing the pandemic with complete success. As an opposition we promised that we would support businesses and the middle-class, reducing taxation and taking a number of supportive measures that we have implemented since the first days of our governance. When the pandemic took place, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis stressed that the country would be shielded against the threat and that it would return to normality, considering that 2021 would be a year of significant growth and recovery. Thanks to the Prime Minister's initiatives, Greece has become a model not only for dealing with the coronary, but also for its social solidarity. Since the beginning of the crisis, we have been next to professionals, small and medium-sized enterprises and the weak, and will continue to work towards the government's budget. The micro-finance framework, which we are debating today and which we shall be voting on today, enables very small entities and natural persons to receive a significant financial contribution of up to EUR twenty-five thousand without practical security, but on favourable terms that will be negotiated with the new lending institutions that will be set up. This is a tool that comes to cover the financial gap to be addressed in micro-enterprise activity. The important feature of the new institutions is that they will also provide financial advice to borrowers, which will have a very positive effect on the natural persons receiving the loans, since they are vulnerable social groups. Beneficiaries are persons living in poverty, long-term unemployed and over fifty years of age, victims of domestic violence and single parent families. In other words, this is a public policy with a very strong social profile, which takes our fellow people out of isolation and gives them a strong support, so that they can stand back on their feet. The rules relating to the world of the countryside are equally important. I am referring to the amendments on the income support for the inhabitants of mountainous and disadvantaged regions with very low incomes and the extension of lending of up to EUR twenty-five thousand without proof of insurance information up to 31 December 2020 because of the pandemic. At the same time, the parcels are being exempted from the supplementary ENVIRONY for 2020, and we should bear in mind the great development of the last few days, namely the decision of the European Parliament Special Committee on Agriculture that we will be able to obtain more money for our farmers, up to seven thousand euros for each farmer and up to fifty thousand euros for every rural enterprise. As we talk about farmers, I would like to stand by and note that it was very right for the decision of the financial staff to suspend the payment of the trade tax for 2019. It was a five-year-old tax. It was necessary for farmers and farmers in 2020 to pay the trade fee, the EUR 650 for 2019 and, of course, on the initiative of the Prime Minister, but also of both Ministers for Economic and Rural Development, this tax is suspended for 2019. I consider this absolutely fair, since our farmers have been affected by the pandemic and we must support them by taking advantage of all the financial resources available to us. At this point perhaps I should stress whether we should also see a brave reduction in trade tax for other free traders. Equally important are the arrangements whereby the tax administration may make corrections, giving solutions to the problem of pensioners who were asked to pay tax on pension retroactive amounts, as well as the extension for June 2020 of the 25% discount on the fixed-term instalments and instalments of instalments of instalments of instalment payments that are suspended. At the same time, our Government is making use of every means at its disposal, providing support to all companies affected by the coronary. After the first successful stage, the second package is now being implemented in order to ensure liquidity on the market, on the one hand, by returning the tax advance, a very successful programme, through the Guarantee Fund, as well as the TIPIX 2 programme. That is why there are too many complaints from the world, and I think they are right. As they all show, a distortion of the programme has been caused. The loan is not granted directly by the Greek State, but it is provided by the banks, but, it seems, it is obvious that, rather than those who have to give and in many cases, it requires, Mr Secretary, and Cash Collateral 30% to 50%, that is to say, cash security and interest rates within a period of 7% to 8%. That's not just my opinion. It is obvious that the banks are trying to benefit from and indirectly receive State aid. I think that this thing should be seen and perhaps a supervisory mechanism should also be set up to monitor how and to whom these loans will be granted, because there are indications that loans are also granted to large enterprises, but also to businesses that do not need them. The seven hundred or seventy thousand small and medium-sized enterprises represent 75% of the private sector, which is why we need to take into account all the parameters in order to support this pillar of our national economy effectively. I do not want to say about the further achievements of the banks. It has recently become fashionable if you are not in Athens, Thessaloniki, Larissa, i.e. in large cities or in capital cities, closing branches because they do not come out economically. It's new what we're facing right now. On the other hand, they are certainly announcing profits, even in times of crisis, of many millions or even billions of euros. Ladies and gentlemen, following the recovery of the pandemic, the government is fighting us for economic recovery. Thanks to the actions and determination of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, we have successfully faced every challenge, quickly implementing our commitments and ensuring EUR 32 billion from the European Commission in addition to the NRP. Our government is making the country clear with an important reserve of resources, which we are called upon to exploit, in order to create many and good new jobs to rekindle the rural economy and achieve strong growth in the Greek region. That is why we are voting in favour of the bill, so that we can constantly meet the expectations of the overwhelming majority of the Greek people who honoured us with their confidence a year ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Kelles. Mr Athanasios Moraitis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the legislative initiative is of the SYRIZA and I find it quite positive that you have listened to our proposals and many of them have been incorporated. I mean, of course, this was a programming and a policy year back. You and all of us need to see that at the moment the data in the economy, the data of small and medium-sized enterprises, the data of the rural world are completely different and because we see a series of financial instruments falling apart, we have to see how we can at this difficult stage support those who are actually being put into the pandemic. I quite rightly believe that you have incorporated the institutions of the solidarity and social economy into the creation of a microfinance institution. The extension of loans for professional farmers without insurance information is a positive step, but too small to save the rural world from the collapse it is currently experiencing. You are now blocking the country's rural world as a government for four months, without any aid, simply following their drama. There are also a number of other questions to be answered. I have heard at the last minute that you will accept the amendment on the possibility of involving local authorities without a plaque, as is the case in other European countries. If you do, it's positive. I consider Article 25 to be essential. There is no arrangement for a discount and a facility for those who are unable to meet their obligations today. You have to understand, Minister, that companies in difficulty in fulfilling tax obligations are not strategic bad-payers and should not treat them as government. They are the people of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which have been ten years of crisis, who are now going through a second test in these three - four months and who have fought for life and survival. We expect to see what you are going to do with the amendment to exemption from the permanent inhabitants of the islands under a thousand inhabitants. By closing a year in your governance, I want to come to the works and days of this year. We need to see what this governance has done. And what has brought about, ladies and gentlemen, is economic downturn, social automation, depreciation of the country's political life. Your neoliberal policies have led to a market dry from liquidity, to precariousness, to a market that all of us see new packages. The set you have been diligent, unfortunately, leads to a dismantling of labour relations and subsidized work. That's not what we say, bad opposition, the GFCM's investigation says. Three out of ten workers do not know whether they will have a job, four out of ten feel complete insecurity and six out of ten employees expect no positive development. Beyond all this, you're bringing in a development opposition. The small and medium-sized businessmen in the country are listening to it in general, all these financial instruments, TEIX. You know better than anyone, Minister - I am sure - that most of the small and medium-sized businesses, focus, tourism, have not even been outside the banks. I can hear them and present you with this anguish and Members of the Couple. Of course, we have been told by representatives of operators, small and medium-sized enterprises and hotel operators in our committee. Over a hundred thousand companies have applied for EUR 10 billion for TIPS 2 loans. Only ten thousand applications have been evaluated at the moment when we are talking about 1,2 million euros and only three thousand eight hundred applications have been approved. Applications amounting to EUR 16 billion have been submitted in the Guarantee Fund, and the first phase of the programme will provide EUR 3.5 billion. The original announcements - I remind you - were for 7 billion euros. So basically only one out of ten companies managed to get into this program. I am referring to all this, to the example of the 15 billion that the Prime Minister has announced to us, on the market will eventually go to 1.4 billion. What the small, medium-sized businessman, producer, trader, free trader is experiencing today is insecurity. What is seen by your policies is that they are not on your radars. And that's not what we say, the research of the Institute of Small Enterprises says. 40% of enterprises cannot currently meet their tax obligations. One in both companies states that it will not be able to repay the debts. And I transfer you the problem of the real economy, the concerns of these people that we see in front of us every day. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What is the programme 'COMPANY WORK'? It is a result of foot decisions, unorganized design and a poor performance. And that, Minister, is not what bad opposition tells you at the committee meeting. Now, the fact that the recession is not a recession, but the Prime Minister's development has indeed become a horrific one, but a two-digit recession figure just since the current quarter. A recession that has hit us before the pandemic crisis came and which has simply put into operation the real government agenda. With a lot of arrogance you spoke of the 23 billion and most ministers have already shared them. The cherry of your conservative governance, however, is the opacity with which you govern, your dissolutionary intervention in the institutions. In the week that passed, you set up a paper circus, a repetition of the dirty 1989 that hurts democracy. You talk about the para-state you have identified in its sense and methods, which are sowing the division, that you criminalize the political life that you hide the "fly" lists and after two months nobody knows where the 20 million people went, which we have new pandemics of awarding works and studies all over Greece, and it takes just a year to recover yourself. The project has seen it and has dramatic soundtrack.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u79	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u80	I shall conclude, Mr President. We are here to hold a responsible opposition and say things by their name. We are not afraid, we are not threatened, and most of all, we are not silent. We're here with the world of work, the world he claims, the world he wants the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u81	Thank you. Mr. Bukkokoros has asked for the floor for two minutes. Mr. Buquoore, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u82	I only asked for the floor for two minutes. I've heard from this morning the tears and vulgarities of the middle-class officer for the free professionals, for the primary sector. Of course, with a political deed, with a political argument, the Vice-Presidents are deliberately ignoring that the bill that we are voting on today is another tool to tackle the pandemic crisis. And this crisis has global characteristics. They come here to opposition to economic sizes, as these are reflected after the pandemic, as if only in Greece. All I didn't hear is that the CIVID virus -19 was built in the underground of the Great Maximus. That's all they told us! Let's get things straight. It's the ninth tool to deal with the effects of pandemic. However, listening here to the free professionals and the uncertainty they really feel and experience after the pandemic of the people who unleashed waves, tsunami seizures against the middle class, by the people who exaggerated, kneeled into the taxes of the middle class, which the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is now deviating, hearing these tears and their supposed interest goes very far. It goes a lot to hear about the primary sector that "you give nothing to the primary sector", as if it were not Greece the first to introduce De Minimis 10.5 million for the flowers, 15 million for fishermen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u83	Do not interrupt the speaker. Let him finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u84	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u85	Mr Apostle, you should have known that state aid is a mechanism that is done from the outset for each sector and wants approval, requiring the approval of the European Union in an unprecedented situation. And the fund, of course, of the Ministry of Rural Development still includes 150 to 200 million to strengthen the primary sector. But we're going to today's bill. Does not the provisions of today's bill provide for payment of the allowance in mountain and disadvantaged areas, which has not been paid since 2018? They do not provide for the continuation of the loan of up to EUR 25 000 for farmers and farmers without tax information? Does not they provide for the suspension of the payment of the EUPM for the agricultural parcels in 2019? Has the abolition of the trade fee of EUR 650 per year for each farmer and each farmer not announced the day before? Aren't these breaths for the primary sector? How do you erase them all? And you come here today as patrons of the primary sector and of the free professionals, whom you have removed for four and a half years and have kneeled from the tsunami of seizures and from the wave of overtaxation? I am pleased - and I conclude, Mr President - that the governments of Parliament agree on the main part of today's bill, because I have not heard of the individual regulations and, fortunately, that it will be a financial instrument. We'll see how it turns out. To a large extent, of course, the market will regulate it. Of course, the supervisory role of the Bank of Greece and the State with the necessary ministerial decisions must play an important role in ensuring that interest rates do not escape and that there is no methodology that is critical and away from the morality of transactions. For all this, the Government has committed itself through the relevant ministers and the present Minister. I want to believe that it will be a financial instrument with the copying of good practice from abroad. We are voting on it today. The vast majority of this House accepts it, and I think it will put it on the map of funding and people who are totally excluded to date and very small businesses, which you have not only exaggerated, but for four and a half years you have ignored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, to restore the truth, five seconds!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u87	He didn't report you. He's a parliamentary representative, he took time from his denture two minutes, okay. But she's gone out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u88	It has not been paid out of state resources to deal with the pandemic in the rural area or a single euro! And what the bloomers refer to tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, has still not taken!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u89	But it is a great deal of work for farmers now that the levy is being abolished. We're all of us from rural families. Mr. Economou has the floor now. After Ms. Konnakas, Mr. Rousopoulos and on 15.15, the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the draft legislation we are debating today creates the conditions for a financial gap to be covered by tens of thousands, not even more, of people working in various areas of the real economy. With microfinance they can gain access to liquidity from entrepreneurs, people who are at the start of their business, but also micro-enterprises that are essentially excluded from banking lending. The very positive features of the bill include the clarity in which the framework of the agencies which will grant these micro-credits, the provisions for the authorisation of institutions and regular audits, always under the auspices of the Bank of Greece, the arrangements and provisions concerning the configuration of interest rates, the information that these agencies are obliged to provide to potential beneficiaries, and I would also like to note support services, financial care services, to say so, which they must provide to potential recipients of funding. So, ladies and gentlemen, in about four months from now the Greek state has acquired another useful tool that will help small and individual entrepreneurship so that it can gain access to capital that is absolutely necessary for its survival and development. Ladies and gentlemen, those who listen to us and know about the problems faced by all the operators who, despite the suspension of their obligations, see these obligations accumulate and cannot be supported in the future because of the immobilisation and low turnover of those who need funds or guarantees to obtain products in time and at competitive prices, those who want equipment and infrastructure to start their business understand very well how important the regulation we are voting on today is. And because they understand that and because they need it, Mr Minister, the government must do everything in its power so that the new instrument can be applied quickly and quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, in many regions of the country, between them and the Region of Central Greece and my homeland, Fthiotida, for the largest part, if not for the entire business world, liquidity is imperative, imperative and priority. Because of the necessary lockdown due to the pandemic and the concern that it will not be repeated and what will be followed, and the behaviour of consumers and their purchasing power in particular are extremely limited. This development is to be added to the absence of investments that could have boosted and developed dynamics in many regions of the country and in our own. It is crucial, therefore, that all of our actions be focused on the objective of sustainable and sustainable development for the country and the Greek region. And from what we have legislated here, all the financial instruments, and from the resources of the Recovery Fund and from the NSRF for the period 2021-2027, it is clear that the tools that could finance this development are there and on them we must shape a transformation plan for the economy, a transformation plan for our productive model, a plan that will not reproduce practices of parasitic and state-owned capitalism that we have known in many of its past years, nor, of course, will it be based primarily on low paid wage labour. On the contrary, we must plan, organise and finance the transition to a model that gives more space to the primary sector, to high-priced and commercial-value products. We must design a model which will put the processing that gives added value to products, the green economy. We have to design a model that gives priority to sectors and activities that the country has had a tradition, but because of their shifting to countries with very low labour costs and almost zero taxation have been exhausted, they have disappeared from Greek productive activity, such as textiles, and of course both digital technology and innovation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close with one comment. Most of the support programmes, most of the support and financial support strategies - that also concerns the banks - suffer from a misconception. Which one? That the aim must be to find companies with some guaranteed success and growth, in other words, to achieve them through a successful - within or outside of the import, as you want to take - the choice of the promising companies and then through various approaches to the transition and conversion of these companies into development champions. That is an opinion, which is obviously accepted to some extent, it produces results. However, in my view, I do not believe that an economy, and indeed an economy like the Greek one, with its structure and tradition, as it comes through the years of the crisis but also earlier, can find a way to stand by only a few champions. Germany has not only become a world power with the few big players. On the other hand, it has created - and other countries, but let us say the example of Germany - a solid set of small and medium-sized enterprises that have managed to play globally and ensure stable growth in that country. Those who have bought equipment, for example, from German factories, I was lucky to do such transactions in my business, they understand very well what I mean. I therefore believe that we need more intervention and a wider view of the whole thing. I believe that we need to move the average towards more development strategies. It needs a more realistic, pragmatic, but also a programming approach, which not only makes the best, but also supports less attractive businesses so that a development model can be created in all areas of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, too, especially for keeping time. Mrs Konnakka has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece. And Mrs. Konnakka from a rural area.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. I'll say for the needs of my area. If nothing else, it is impressed by the Government's ingeniousness to show the sensitivity to the demands of large groups of companies, as allegedly of interest to self-employed persons on the limits of the collapse. Of course, the most naive ones can see the size of mockery. Your work today is analogous to the voucher story of the self-employed scientists. In order to give the thousands of people the shredded aid of 600 euros to lawyers, engineers, accountants and others, you first tried to get the entrepreneurs of the training centres in warm money. Now to save, as you say, the desperate self-employed, the farmers from the loan sharks, you are making loan sharks with state approval and the guarantee of the Bank of Greece. These include loan sharks, betting companies, telephony companies, payment companies, large shipping companies, which have access to warm state and Community money with the corresponding profit rate guaranteed by the State, without any losses. We're talking about colpo grosso! But this time, the opposition fights went dry. There is full sympathy from the other parties. Does the State really guarantee the damages of small self-employed, poor farmers, the crumbling cigarettes, the debts already accumulated in banks, insurance funds and PPC? And we wonder: How will they be covered with zero incomes? You're saying what they lack is the nipple of another loan? We are talking about not even direct State aid, without any robbery terms, as the JRC has proposed. What is needed by the self-employed, small businessmen, farmers is not a new rock for the next few years, but measures for substantial relief that will remove the burdens already accumulated, allowing them to obtain an income for their survival. They are their demands repeatedly brought to the House by the JRC and they are well ignored both by the government and other parties that share the same responsibility for the burdens they have borne throughout the decade of the crisis. A relief measure is the reintroduction of the tax-free limit to 12,000 euros with an increase of 3,000 euros for every child, the deletion of part of their debts to banks and taxi and not their suspension. The relief measure is the exemption and not the suspension for a short time of individual contributions for the months that the restrictive measures have been in force, without loss of pension rights and with full insurance cover by the State. Relief measure is to abolish the unacceptable tax advance for 2019 and 2020, to create the trade fee and the ENPIA. You should abolish it and not suspend it for a year for farmers. The supposed temporary, exceptional memorandum measures, which have finally been made memorandum and development, appear to be a reserve for the new round of the crisis. These are the ones that touch the real needs of the small self-employed. These measures also claim small businessmen on the islands, in areas that, unfortunately, were living from the monoculture of tourism and are now on the bed of intensive. I will testify for the Practicals the letter of the Association of Professional Crafters of the Municipal Unit of Petros Lesvos, one of the most important tourist areas on the island that really are in despair, as is the case with many other microprofessionals, since for most of them their last income was in October 2019. And they have great doubt that they will be able to see money again at the fund before April 2021, the next tourist season. They ask for exemption for this year from municipal fees and rents for the use of public spaces. They request special purpose allowance based on tick rather than on the SMRs which, for example, exclude the mini-markets of holiday areas that operate on a timely basis. In addition, they are asking for a tax-free 12,000 euros, abolishing the trade fee and tax advance, strengthening all the health structures of the island, so that they can really feel safe with the opening of the economy. Of course, they are calling for the definitive reintroduction of the reduced rate of VAT to the islands. This is a joint request from all the inhabitants of the Aegean islands. It was a conquest that was made in return for the consequences that made the lives of the islands difficult and linked to the constitutionality, otherwise, guaranteed islandity, for which, of course, islandity is called hymns by many of the Ministers during their visits to the islands, but you have cut them off as well. It was a conquest that was abolished by the third memorandum of SYRIZA - ANEL, which in the same consensus was passed by the other parties, New Democracy, PASOK, Potami. Subsequently, the reduced VAT rate was inadmissible with the refugee and was given as a temporary consideration in the five Aegean islands to accept the dangerous and unacceptable design of the European Union and the governments and SYRIZA at the time and of the New Democracy today, which turned them into permanent places for the caging of refugees and migrants. The JRC has already tabled an amendment during the debate on the draft law in the committee calling for the reintroduction of reduced VAT rates for all Aegean islands, a tax which should in any case be abolished for all kinds of people's consumption. It concerns all islanders, and it is the minimum support that the state must give them for the difficulties facing them, such as the miserable and expensive transport, the problematic or non-existent connection of the islands between them and the rest of the country and the high cost of production, all of which entail the huge shortcomings in all health structures, factors relating to the daily life and survival of the workers, the self-employed, the farmers, all the populaces that are the permanent mortgages of both the capitalist crisis and capitalist development. Silence by the Government on the JRC's amendment. It is a good thing, however, that the other parties too are in good faith. It's impressive your disobedience. Why don't you accept the JRC's proposal, the proposal of all the islanders, to abolish a Memorandum and an unjust and unjust measure? I will submit to the Minutes a statement in support of the amendment by unions and clubs of Ikaria and Fortress. A similar support, of course, exists from too many operators and from all Aegean islands. This statement is signed by the Hotel Officers and Associates Association of Ikaria-Forens, the Association of Builds and Related Professionals of Ikaria-Forens, the Association of Self-Employees - Crafters - Professionals of Ikaria, the Pensioners' Association of Pensioners - Loyalty - Forks, the Association of Technical PPC Samos - Ikaria, the Association of Educational Ikaria - Fortress and the Association of Democratic Women of Ikaria. We also call on the other parties to take their place, SYRIZA and the Change Movement, to correct the injustice they have done against islanders. Because despite the tears you throw when you talk to the islanders, your vote abolished the reduced rates of VAT on the islands. The parliamentarians of the islands, the government MPs who were in opposition, went down to the rallys and accused SYRIZA of the unacceptable connection between VAT and the refugee, and today they have taken up six-month extensions. Are there less of the difficulties facing Limnos, Ai Stratis, Ikaria, Cyclades and other Aegean islands? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The JRC calls on all mass organizations on the islands to make their own claim, in order to return everything it is entitled to, strengthen, act the slogan "pay a lot, we will not pay again", against those who dream that they will put the people's claim on ice. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. Mr Rusopoulos is now called to Stepma and then the Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, Mr Karathanasopoulos, will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, half the truths are worse than lies. So I will see to it that half the truths that have been heard earlier and, indeed, at party leader level, about the issue of micro-credits, their history, where they have started and where they have come from. A lot has been said by the ministers and colleagues. Therefore, adding to what we have said the arguments that we all know, and indeed to a bill that brings broad acceptance - which is very good for our political world - would not be a good thing on my part. It was rightly said that since the mid-1970s, it started in Asia, and indeed, in Bangladesh, by Mohamed Yunus, the professor, who later took Nobel Peace in 2006, this microcredit institution, because he thought the Nobelist was not very peculiar to move in terms of charity, you should give people what will make them feel stronger, so that, by investing, these businesses can bring them money to be able to pay back the loan, but also have a much better luck than a charity that would be only once a year or at the most, two - three times. What happened and has really been very interesting is that the repayment of these micro-loans reached 100%. Here's the first evidence of why he achieved this measure. A measure which has not been limited, as has been said, in that country, in Bangladesh, but has been implemented in Latin America and - let those who do not know or do not know - in the European Union and more generally in Europe. If someone reads the European Code of Good Practice for the allocation of microcredits, it will see that in 2011, that is, about ten years ago the European Code of Association for the allocation of microcredits was established. The bill we're discussing is based on this code. What is going on in Europe today? Here's some evidence. The microfinance institutions shall be calculated at approximately four hundred fifty. Not one, not two, not fifty, not a hundred. Four hundred fifty institutions exist in Europe for micro-credits, micro-credits. A recent survey of the full data we had for the last year, which we had data, that is, for 2017, states that the number of active micro-credit beneficiaries amounted to about one million citizens, while the total micro-credit portfolio reaches EUR 3.2 billion. What is the experience of operating this market? Some thirty years, about, experience - to tell all truths and not half truths - not only in Bangladesh, not only in Latin America, but also in the European family to which we belong, experience shows that the development of self-employment and micro-enterprises, through the combined provision of micro-credits and advisory services, can lead to the integration of vulnerable social groups into the production mechanism. That is what it is trying to do, and I am sure it will succeed when it becomes law and it starts to apply as a state law. At the same time, it can reduce poverty and social exclusion and help achieve the objectives, what we call'sustainable development'. I will only add one example, which relates to France, not only to Bangladesh, as it did a party president earlier to deceive - he thought, with half the truths as I said - the government's bill. Especially in France, which was founded in 1989-89, I would ask, thirty years ago - the first microfinance institution in Europe, the ADIE Association for the Rights to Economic Activity, today remains strong. At the end of 2018, the microfinance portfolio consisted of two hundred forty-four thousand loans, a total of approximately EUR 1.360.000,000, a significant increase compared to the recent past, for example, where the corresponding value was at 1,000,000,000 euros. That's to restore half the truths. Mr President, although it is not predictable and I am not used to it when I speak of a bill to refer to another issue, I will take the opportunity and believe, with your permission, an extension from this principle. And I only do it because there has been a lot of talk about the bill that the government has already submitted on the mergers, not only in the center of Athens, but in general in the country. Half the truths were heard here. I would like to say about this bill on which we will have the opportunity to speak in plenary that it is based on a committee that took place about ten years ago, in the Vrodakis Commission of 2011, involving the Alivizatos, Manitakis, Ktistakis and other teachers. The issue had been discussed many, many years ago, in 1991, with its own participation, in particular, by the Aristo-Blue Menesis. What's the matter today? And I'm closing up with it. There's a law brought by the junta. And while fifty years after a law of the junta, the opposition is accusing the government and for this reason with half the truths, it is allegedly trying to impose the law of the junta. In other words, we like the law of the junta and we do not like a law of democracy, which, with Parliament's plenary with the committee responsible, will be voted on, since - the government, as it has shown - will hear all views and, of course, has its ears open to any corrective steps, if necessary. This also proves, Mr President, that half the truths are worse than lying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u95	And we thank Mr Rusopulus. I invite Mr Karathanasopoulos to move to Stepma for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. This bill is presented not only by the government but also by others as the manna from heaven against the negative effects of the capitalist crisis on self-employed professionals and traders, who, even before the capitalist crisis took place, had to deal with a Golgotha problem and any measures the government announced in the previous period were just limited support measures in these categories and constituted a drop in the ocean, in front of the billions that have been given or planned to be given in the next time in the big capital. The adequacy or inadequacy of the measures is judged by the situation they are experiencing, the self-employed and the professionals with huge problems and even the problems of survival, who cannot continue to have an economic activity under these circumstances. Indeed, in the face of their fair demands, which the JRC has submitted during the debate on this bill and not only the demands of the self-employed, the professionals, but also of the poor and poor farmers, the workers and the rest of the people's populations, the government, although it shows that it understands them, at the same time it also speaks of the strengths of the economy, that these demands cannot be met, because there are strong tolerances to the economy. Except that these tolerances seem to be ruthless when it comes to satisfying the demands of the people's strata, and at the same time it's "adorable" when it comes to satisfying business interests. Why say that in the coming years, some 60 billion will be spent on the various packages and financial instruments in the Greek economy for the benefit of business groups and at the same time say that there are no tolerances to the economy to meet the legitimate demands for the survival of the self-employed, then that is how you do nothing but try to cover up your anti-popular policy. Of course, apart from any limited relief measures, which do not address the difficult situation they are experiencing, the Government is making use of the suspension of obligations either to the tax, to the insurance funds or to the banks, but also to the banks, which, of course, does nothing but the suspension over the next multiplier period, the same problems come to and fall on the backs of the same blocks. In other words, it gives a simple suspension of obligations, without deleting part of them, and thus multiplying the problems. The third instrument used by the government - and the Minister has said - is access to finance, as is the need for a vast majority of the self-employed, professional and traders to be able to borrow and have other much more serious issues. On the substance, that is, it tightens even further the cord under which professionals and merchants are called upon to operate. And from this point of view, then, we say very clearly that these choices on the substance facilitate the process of concentration of the economy and economic and productive activity into less and less hands and, at the same time, what cannot be reversed by any effort by the government is precisely the anti-grassroots arsenal, which is in force in the face of these accusations. And this anti-grassroot, which has been formed by the previous governments, not only does it, but the current government also maintains it in force and has something to do with the action that the self-employed and merchants of the large business groups have to deal with, it has to do with the tax raid that these charges are on a daily basis from not being tax-free, from the 100% advance payment, from the trade fee and a number of other measures which break the incomes of the self-employed and traders. It is also about insurance, it is about working hours and a number of other measures. And, of course, the instrument of horizontal treatment, which, of course, is not just a choice of the government, but also other parties, such as SYRIZA, is trying to cover up who will actually benefit from these billions, from the support packages and those on the ground are not others than business groups and, at the same time, to cover and who will pay for all these packages. All these packages are either loans, guarantees, or subsidies will be called upon to be paid by the Greek people, the taxpayers, who are essentially the people. And that's not what the government does at all, it's the other parties. Through this process, what they are seeking is to cover the cause of the deterioration in the position of the people, the workers, the self-employed, the poor medium-sized farmers. The cause of this deterioration in their position is not that of any government failure, more or less, or that of any micro-services the government does, as did the previous governments. And, from this point of view, it is no coincidence that they are resorting to proposals. A number of such proposals, however, are nothing but bids for business groups, as SYRIZA does. More asks for money to support the big business groups in front of them in order to arm themselves - it says - in this way the Greek economy. It is enough for the cushion to speak, which is the result of the bloody primary surpluses. In other words, the employees themselves will pay once again the rescue of the shareholders of the business groups, as the "cushion" includes the insurance funds, hospitals and other public bodies. When these reserves are exhausted, then new anti-grassroots measures will come as well as counter-insurance measures to workers and the people, or measures which will ultimately be borne by people's layers, such as the measures proposed by Mr Varoufakis a moment ago, because they are proposals within the walls, they are proposals that leave the large capital to be unavoidable, leaving the capitalists to be unavoidable. And through this process, through this proseology, what they're trying to cover up all around is who the enemy and the opponent are. The real enemy of the self-employed, the workers, the wide populaces, the poor medium-sized farms are the monopolies and their action is the system that supports their interests and shields these interests in every way. So it is no coincidence that at the present time, at this time of a new more profound capitalist crisis, where governments are asking the people to pay for the broken crisis once again, escalating the anti-grass attack, the New Democracy Government is now coming with new measures and legislative frameworks to shield the system even further, taking over the chef from SYRIZA, who thought it would put the strikes on the plaster to try to put the mergers on the plaster. Like the effectiveness of SYRIZA's measures that were crushed by reality, so the government's bill seeking to put the concentrations on the plaster will be crushed by the very reality and class struggle of workers and other people's layers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Karathanasopoulos. I call to Stepma the MEP of the Greek Solution, Mr. Antonis Mylonakis. Here, Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, he left, unfortunately, Thodoris Rousopoulos, a good friend and colleague, to tell him, because he said something about the bill that comes tomorrow for meetings and for marches, because he said it was a bill of government of George Papadopoulos, Judas, as he said, but I would like to say to him that neither from New Democracy until now, years ago, I recall that it is Decree 797/1971 - nor by SYRIZA has dared to amend or abolish it. You have been with him for so many years, ladies and gentlemen, both SYRIZA and the New Democracy, but if you did not have the guts to apply it, why did you apply it to the beams of this law? But I'll see you tomorrow when it starts, where this bill is introduced. I am very proud, ladies and gentlemen, because I am the Greek Parliamentary Group. I've said it many times. I say this once again and I will stress that we have promised and seen that we are doing so. We will make a creative opposition, a opposition which will denounce the poor texts of the government and make proposals that are constructive and beneficial to the Greeks and Greeks. Minister, you brought in a bill for alternative forms of funding. Within this bill, which even knew your own MPs, such as Mr Voloudakis and others, were that they could get a loan of up to twenty-five thousand people who came illegally to our country, i.e. poachers, seek asylum and wait for an answer as to whether they are entitled to asylum or not. After a number of discussions, I think that once again the Greek Solution has shown how far it can and will affect with the right word and serious and honest policy, Minister, and we are truly congratulating you because you are listening. Yeah, that's true. You brought a piece of legislation. The correction had to have been made from the beginning. Anyway, it's never too late. Even at the last minute you took back and put the correction that they should have a 10-year tax presence for those who have to take this micro-loans. But I want to say and see this, gentlemen of the government, that it is not possible to come and legitimise the turf. Who are these companies, which will be able to provide a loan to small and medium-sized enterprises, that is to say to a household? I will give you an example. We remember a few days ago the mother of little Maria, who fainted with the screaming of agony - and she is not unique - who said: 'I want work'. So this woman could get a loan-- I'm telling you-- 5,000, 10,000 euros at a interest rate, at which there's no wall? Mr Secretary, from what the Minister told us, from 15% to 25% is the interest rate that Europe is moving. Because Mr Roussopoulos told us that some four hundred companies exist and finance this system in Europe. So I tell you that since 2008, which has been applied in the United States, there have been 78% in depression and suicide because of these loans, small loans, these innocent - supposedly - loans, which are not innocent at all. Because when the people have an absolute need to study their child or live their child, they will receive a consumer loan of five, ten, fifteen thousand. This consumer loan, therefore, at a rate of 15%, 20%, 25%, will automatically become the grave of this family, this little man, the middle, who will take it. Why don't you tell me that someone can pick up and build a business with 25,000 euros! And now that the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Chakalotos, whom I respect, has also come, I would like to ask him this: Mr Chakalote, this bill is your invention, followed by the New Democracy and you supported it to the end. But I have seen you, personally, blame the government for taking the illegal asylum seekers out of the EUR 25 000 plan, which are also in vulnerable groups. In other words, we have a category of vulnerable groups and within this category we have some people who could not think of being able to get a loan. So why do you blame the government for bringing this legislative improvement? I think for some other things you should blame her. For toddlers, you should accuse her of washing the toddlers. Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, the rapporteur and the parliamentary representative, have said so very well, and I think you have heard them from the President of Greece, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, and from our rapporteur and from the parliamentary representative. You open the customs offices, the customs office of the Gardens. Ask the people of Northern Evros what they say about this thing. Close the office of the Castanes. Close also the customs of the Gardens and forbid Turkish products to come in. Be careful because from the Castanes they are entering and invading illegal immigrants. We'll have another problem with the Kastani customs. That's what people who live in the area say. And one last. Here comes a Armageddon, a project "HERAKLIS" for the first-residential protection fee. Apart from the 'SURE' programme, that is, 'half the money', we also have what we said the other day - and take care of it - where the 'JP MORGAN' buys for a piece of bread the outstanding debts due to PPC. Watch it, because we will have dramas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u99	And we thank Mr. Mylonakis. May I call the New Democracy MP, Mr. Silina Skondra, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our homeland is a winner of the pandemic that has hit the world community. The numbers, they testify to it and the credit Greece received from all the nations of the world. We are, in common now, a state - a model for dealing with the health crisis, because there has been good moves and timely precautions have been taken by the Government for the safety of citizens and guaranteeing public health. However, this concerns the part of the health crisis. However, this is a consequence of an economic recession, the depth of which is estimated by the European Bank to be the greatest in Europe's history for seventy years. Unfortunately, some of the anti-population colleagues want to exploit this wave of recession and present it as a Greek problem. In other words, they criticise the Greek Government and the initiatives it takes to relaunch our national economy. You will allow me to reply that this is the usual micropsy of what the past has clearly demonstrated how they exercised power. They were raised as a measure of overtaxation and are now trying to turn a global economic problem into a Greek government weakness. It is regrettable that, instead of taking a constructive stand on the part of the citizens and supporting the efforts made by a government to overcome this situation as painlessly as possible, they are once again thinking in the context of distorted party ideology and micro-party benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, the government introduces the draft law on the framework for the granting of microfinances and financial regulation and, as has been quite clearly heard by our colleague here, Mr Rusopoulos, is a method of tested and successful internationally, an internationally successful practice. So this is a bill by the Ministry of Finance, which helps to make a substantial and useful step forward, when our national economy is trying to move backwards. It changes the way in which small credit is given to citizens either business people who are now starting either to those who already have small businesses and do not have access to the banking system or to vulnerable social groups, so that they can get a small loan to meet specific needs. It is worth noting that the leadership of the Ministry of Finance has listened to the concerns and suggestions of both the Communism and the Opposition during the meetings in the committee responsible. It made substantial changes by incorporating these proposals into the final form of the bill. So here you will be judged, ladies and gentlemen, on how much you will support your proposals which are now part of this bill. This model of microfinance is intended to prevent - to the extent that it corresponds to it - the recession which, due to the consequences of the pandemic, threatens not only our country but also the entire global economy. No intelligent man denies that the relaunching of the economy after the totalitarian lockdown of three months is objectively a difficult matter, and that is why the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has committed itself to exploiting all the resources it possesses and all those economic tools, both Greek and European, but always by assessing the situation with realism and with sensitivity. Ladies and gentlemen, I am elected to a county which has experienced very hard the consequences of the economic crisis of the last decade. The Karditsas Prefecture, like many other counties in the Greek region, is based on primary production. We are among the prefectures that we are still recording from the highest unemployment rates in the country today. Our young people and young people have serious concerns about their future, while their parents are still in trouble, often failing to find viable solutions to overcome the financial deadlocks of the family. For the Cardinals and for Cardinals, as for citizens of other regions, the results of the government policy that will result from this draft law will be measurable and immediately visible. By slowing down the recession with tools such as that of microfinance, we help people in the regions, who work hard to produce primary wealth, make a significant contribution to the country's economic upturn. With the opening up of businesses and in view of the need for liquidity, the government is giving a solution to this form of financial support, where there is no possibility of lending from large banking institutions. It thus gives a breath of viability to the limited local economies, which, however, make a decisive contribution to the entire turnover in the region. Ladies and gentlemen, the microfinance framework is an alternative form of funding, for which we need a modern institutional framework. The provision of micro-credits enables up to EUR 25 000 to be raised and is aimed mainly at micro-enterprises, natural persons for the establishment and operation of micro-enterprises and individuals belonging to vulnerable social groups. The Bank of Greece is entrusted with supervising and controlling the entire operating system of both the new microcredit institutions to be created and the citizens who will receive loans through this process. The bill we have to vote on comes to cover the financial gap that exists in the business activity of those facing problems in accessing bank borrowing, especially because of the inability to provide the collateral required by European Union banking legislation. In other words, we are giving a breath of liquidity to those who do not have access to the banking system and to those who have been afflicted and troubled so far by bureaucracy and toddlerism. We thus facilitate the smooth relaunch of our national economy and the creation of new jobs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. The government and the financial staff have as their priority at the moment to stimulate the Greek economy and to support businesses and workers. Today's bill is an initiative of many to achieve this objective, because the New Democracy as a folk and socially sensitive party cares for all, but always beginning with the weakest and most needy ones. As a serious government, it does not speak much, but exercises political influence. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Skondra. I'll call the SYRIZA MP, Mr. Sultana Eleftheriadou. Here, Mrs Eleftheriadou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us start with a given one. The recession in the second quarter of this year will reach 16%. It's acceptable to everyone and it's self-proof. What do Government MPs say today? They say that everything was done well, that there are nine financial instruments and that the government has helped with these small and medium-sized enterprises and the people's order, as the previous colleague said. At the same time, in your speeches, you speak of a financial gap. So since you've done it all right, you understand how contradictory it is to have a financial gap. And why is that? Because you really don't do anything okay. You have not supported small and medium-sized enterprises. You have not strengthened the workers, the professionals, the scientists and the farmers. In Greece, in particular, we have eight hundred thousand businesses and eight hundred thousand free professionals. At the moment, three out of ten companies are at risk of lock-up, eight out of ten companies are facing a liquidity deficit, 55% of companies have absolutely no access to the banks and seven out of ten companies are out of the financial instruments that you so proudly announce. TEPIX II evaluated ten thousand enterprises out of the 100 thousands applied for and only three thousand eight hundred companies have been approved. The Guarantee Fund has a huge financial gap between demand and supply. The demand is EUR 16 billion, your government announced EUR 3.5 billion and joined ten businesses. In the repayable advance, there are two thousand business applications, and this shows how big a gap in business support exists from your government. You introduced the suspension of your obligations by October. What does that mean? What's going to happen in October? Hundreds of thousands of enterprises with accumulated debts will not be able to obtain tax and insurance information. What does that even mean? It means that they will not have any more access to the banks, because in order to have access to the banks they need tax and insurance information. They will also smash all kinds of business bills and seal cheques. At work, the 'Cooperation' programme is completely unsuccessful and this is demonstrated by the companies that are ultimately involved in it. Only three thousand enterprises are participating in the 'Cooperation' programme and thirty-three thousand employees from the eight hundred thousand enterprises. This is because the programme does not favour, as we have said at the outset, workers who see a reduction in their wages of at least 20% or face redundancies, nor those who use the workers for half an hour and have to pay their insurance contributions. Therefore, the measures so far to strengthen small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and workers, the reductions in wages, the redundancies - which you have not given from them to workers - the elasticisation of labour contracts and the abolition of collective labour agreements have led to this point of the recession in the Greek economy. For free professionals you didn't do anything either. Thousands lived with State aid of EUR 800 for three months. For scientists there was the real voucher scandal that was the mockery of our country's scientific sector and there was no real state aid. After underestimating them, you threw them off the racket of 600 euros. For seasonal workers there is no care whatsoever. As far as farmers are concerned, you have been following their suffering and collapse for four months. So what do you do? You bring this bill, for which I will then say that it is essentially a child of SYRIZA, but it was created under other circumstances and only to complement the Greek small and medium-sized economy. So you are bringing this bill today and you are glorifying it, because, apart from the fact that you are bringing it over a year and while small and medium-sized enterprises have suffered a great deal of damage and have collapsed from your inability to help them, you are bringing it not complementaryly, but you think this will save small and medium-sized enterprises. I wish it could temporarily prevent the lock that seems to come to three of the ten businesses, according to the official information of the GATT! Our reservations are many and our questions are many. But today, under the pressure of society, we must all stand up to the circumstances and offer this bill and this possibility to small and medium-sized enterprises. This bill, as I said before, is a creation of SYRIZA. The adoption of an institutional framework on financing was one of the pillars of our strategy to cure the failures of systemic banks to grant financial instruments to small and medium-sized enterprises. SYRIZA had incorporated the creation of the institutional framework that we are debating today in national development planning. He had drawn up the original version of today's draft law and his explanatory statement and started public consultation for the law to come to Parliament. Today's bill is crucial for the future of the Greek economy and for the support of vulnerable social groups. It is crucial for small and medium-sized enterprises and start-ups. It should, however, function without practical guarantees and with an assessment not based on credit rating, but on individual skills and the prospect of the business project. It should function with a service advisory framework, without unfair practices, excessive interest charges and opaqueness and with security margins, so that illegal economic activities are not legalised. We don't give your government a white check. We have made our remarks and reservations at the meetings of the committee responsible. We have tabled amendments which are in line with the observations of operators and for the first time we believe that a bill which is the creation of SYRIZA - has, of course, been created under other circumstances - will help the Greek economy at this critical time. Because the SYRIZA's priority, both during its governance and today, is how businesses survive and how they will not lose their jobs and their income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u103	And we thank you and invite the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. It has not passed, ladies and gentlemen, many days since Thursday last week when we were discussing this draft law, so I have no new things to say. A parliamentary representative weighs on the contents of his speech, looking at and what broader issues have arisen or arisen on the basis of which a placement is required. I am interconnecting this with the immediately last week's speech to the Secretary of State, Mr Zavvos, and to ask him about Bad Bank. I had made a reference invoking the European Central Bank allegedly adopting this version in order to create a centralised Bad Bank and to acquire it in the Member States of the euro area, in the relevant intervention - a statement by Mr Stournara, the Governor of the Bank of Greece, which is repeated in the monetary policy report sent to us yesterday, where, Minister Zavves, express reference is made once again to the need for Bad Bank to be added to the tools of the Hellenic Republic, such as the 'HRAKLIS', and others that the government proposes to address them positively. One of these is very important and we have intervened on this issue, I do not know how many times in the National Representation, having at these headquarters the Ministers of SYRIZA and now the New Democracy. It is bankruptcy law, which is sine qua non for the progress of the economy and for long-term growth. But for Bad Bank, which is linked to the issue that the National Representation is discussing and speaking today, we - Mr Constantinople - have first talked about, Mr Constantinople three years ago - and we were being treated as presumptuous. But we were right at the end of the day for Bad Bank, which must help the national economy, not because it will in a massive way set up the banks' unserved claims from their debtors, but because it will stimulate the market, since a barrier to market liquidity is the mistrust of bank governors and their executives to continue lending, when they have 60 billion unserved loans on their back. And they're afraid that this is about 70 billion and 75 billion. It's psychological and economical to create Bad Bank. We wonder, is there a debate going on in the country from which the Government of New Democracy is absent? Aren't there any opinions? Should we, in the research method, know what the relevant government officials say? For you, Mr. Undersecretary, they say you're negative. But I don't know. Talking about the obstacles that exist, you appear to be against that because you do not believe this tool. That's what it's called. I would ask you to make a specific reference to any phase of your speech or to a new meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs or to the plenary. Coming now on the subject, I have to stand by the great Observatory of the Bank of Greece and the Ministry of Development, which will tell us by observing which banks meet the call of the Greek Government, the six parties of the National Representation, the Minister of Development, the European Central Bank, to provide easier liquidity on the market, provided that some basic conditions are met. A month ago the government told us 'we will do Observatory'. The month has passed and spent a week since the last week we were here. Observatory doesn't exist. We do not know which credit institution meets the needs of the national economy and what does not respond. Indeed, the Minister for Development, Mr Georgiadis, in reply to my own speech, said that the observatory will not simply observe the government, but that it will be able to see which bank will facilitate the flow where projects are being developed that the government is manipulating and what bank the flow should not continue. But this is where we arrived in July. You know, ladies and gentlemen, if it closes this summer, then, as it says, a bank stem, aspirins will not be enough to deal with the problem, powerful anti-violences will be needed. It'll be late, then it'll be too late. Now, I'm watching how banks speak for themselves and how certain optimistic government officials speak. They stand right on the good side that they have seen to exist in the Greek economy and which I too join in this positive view and I say yes, there are indeed good times in the Greek economy and in these difficult times. Let us say, some businesses take advantage of the opportunities that exist to develop e-commerce and transform digitally. That's right. Secondly, those who come with positive results from 2019 enter 2020 with strong positions and starting bases to deal with the problems of the recession pandemic. Teleworking, tele-education. Yes, that is business modernisation. There are companies that have immediately responded to these challenges and finally, some that have donated much to the National Health System and Greece recognises and thanks them. However, if we look at which companies it is, we will understand, ladies and gentlemen, that we are talking about large Greek businesses and those which have already been highly adapted to technological progress. But that's not the point. From there to the time some bank governors reach us to record the account of the liquidity they provided on the market, as if we'd all hide behind the numbers, as they hide and say 'good', the distance is very long. You may have seen that you have given 1 billion euros, but this has gone to the specific companies that didn't need it that bad. The question is what is going on with the middle and small? The government cannot operate behind the number of money that each systemic bank has put on the market. The analysis, in addition to the quantitative, qualitative aspect of this liquidity, will show that more small and medium-sized enterprises are left uncovered. So this is the framework within which the current draft law comes to operate. We've got a problem. We have banks that do not respond, we have government weak, we have an Observatory that does not work, we have an economy that... Whoever goes to Rhodes - Mrs. Gennamas has made specific references - today will record the lack of tourists and understand, seeing the sizes of the hotels closed, what comes in a few weeks. Again, aspirins will not reach September. He'll need strong antibiotics. Excuse me very much: Can anyone ignore the fact that the economic problem will become a political one? No one can ignore that. When an economic problem becomes political, for the citizen first it is the government and then, Madam President, the citizens are also against all parties, because they say 'you do not do what you have to do at the National Representation'. So he comes with a small tool, the government helps. Minister, I am surprised with the artwork, how many people expect this legislative text and from the point of view of businesses who want to enter the market, but also from the point of view of society that is not intimidated by interest rates. That scares me. I was here when Mr Stagioras went down to the Members' seat and told us and SYRIZA that we were here that he was thinking of setting a maximum interest limit close to 9% and told him that it sounded very much. He told us the comparative data on countries in Europe that touch interest rates by 15%, 20%, namely toddlers, and we felt somehow far away from the possible functioning of the market in a number of ways. The reality is, however, different. It seems that liquidity is so necessary that even interest rates which are heard in taco-circulars appear not to be intimidating. That's how much need there is. Go ahead. The estimates that this will start to work towards the end of 2020 are not good, because the Bank of Greece needs to prepare methods of checking the criteria that companies need to meet to make permits. That's a little slower than we might have wanted or you. In the meantime, however, the overall problem of the lack of liquidity, if what creates a hope for someone in need, I consider it dangerous. Who's going to borrow at 8% and 9% interest and make it through? I think it's dangerous. As a lawyer, I'm telling you that. In any case, that is the reality. Move as fast as you can. We expect the Minister of Finance at some point to give us his overall plan to respond to the needs of the pandemic that leads to a recession in the economy. I close with a phrase that does not contain rhetorical ridge. We must agree, ladies and gentlemen, from all the parties, when we talk about a recession or a recession, to say the same thing. We cannot present the quarter's recession as a recession annual. We need to agree on what numbers we use. We must speak in a concrete way, so that the citizen can draw a final conclusion on what is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u105	Thank you. Mr Zavvos asked for the floor and he has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to reply directly to the question raised for the second time by the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Loverdos. I answered her last time, but it's a chance to talk to you today. The question is what our position is on red loan reduction plans through the so-called Bad Bank, that is, a bad bank. Here I would like to say that a few days ago the Prime Minister gave an interview with an international agency clearly responded. He specified what the government's position is by saying that the government currently has a very useful instrument to reduce red loans, which is the 'HRAKLIS'. The Bank of Greece and the others are working on issues of a Bad Bank that may be useful as an idea, but it is not at this moment. I would like to say that we need clarification because it is thorny, but it also has significant political consequences. When we say bad bank, Bad Bank, we need to think at least two cases. One is a bad bank at European level, with 500 600 billion red loans in which a scheme is created, but then the cost may be borne by the European funds, namely not by the national taxpayer and is the idea that was released years ago and may be drawn up in some European institutions. But what we are most interested in is the idea of a national bad bank, a national Bad Bank. I would like to say here that the first important issue to be considered - and you, Mr Loverde - is what the financial cost of this idea is, namely how much it costs and who it pays, because those who are talking at the moment, thinking or planning about a bad bank in this period, say that it will probably take around EUR 10 billion. The question is who pays these euros. The Greek taxpayer? If that's the case, we have to say it. If that's the case, where will this money come from? This is the most important question that no one answers, because HERAKLIS, who is the leading choice and success of the Greek Government on this matter, is responsible for the cost of the operation to the investor and not to the Greek taxpayer. This is the huge difference of the "HRAKLE", this successful project, compared to any other project. The second idea is what supervisory costs are, namely, what funds the banks should "burn" to achieve this thing. The third is this. You're a distinguished constitutionalist, you know. Is the idea compatible at the moment with European law, i.e. with competition rules? Does that fit, yes or no? As you know, there are also significant risks if you have to go through a narrow pervert with possible losses. So I would like to say that we are also careful in this area and in general, when we talk about such ideas. Why? Think of the investor who comes to Greece and is already putting his money into the program, i.e. the investments of "HRAKLI". What does it mean when you tell him that tomorrow you're coming to do bad bank? I'm leaving the question to you. When you're a borrower and you tell him that the Greek State will take the cost, what do you tell him? "Come and pay fast" or "Stay where you are and forget it"? When he's a witness, what exactly are you telling him? I'm asking you these questions. Think. Mr President, I said that HERAKLIS was an undertaking by the Greek Government, which started about a year ago, when there was literally nothing like a plan or a thought, despite the ideas that were circulating. It systematically tackles one of the top issues that is the issue of red loans. The main thing is that it is dealing with the investors' money and not the Greek taxpayer. This project cost all four systemic banks, as you know, so it's a success. It was welcomed and welcomed by all the European institutions, the European Union's executive vince president, Dombroski, Mrs Westager, Mr Reggling, everyone. It has been approved by the European Union. With enormous efforts alone by the Greek Government, we have achieved the zero weighting that is of vital importance for a country which was not an investment grade, that is, we have given the Greek banking system a tool in the near future to get out of the swamp of red loans and I say this again - not with the Greek taxpayer's money. Mr. Loverde and Mr. Katrin, if that was your idea from a long time ago, why did you not proceed with it in 2011-2012?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, I would also like to speak because the Minister has made a personal reference.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u110	You both raise your hand. Who should I give the floor first? I will give him to the parliamentary representative who has also raised the matter. Here, Mr. Loverde, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u111	I am very pleased about this debate and the 'ERAKLIS' project we had exchanged arguments, mild, reasonable and serious. I have the opportunity to look back on two issues you have raised: as far as the cost of the Bad Bank's programme is concerned, with regard to the capital requirements for starting it and, of course, with regard to Union law. Mr. Undersecretary, our idea did not come up in 2011-2012. Our idea came up when we were a SYRIZA government opposition party and we saw how obstacles the banks are to this amount of unserved demands. I am therefore keeping aside this clarification, the need to answer you in detail as much as it is worth in the debate at tomorrow's meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Secondly, I would like to tell you that the condition of starting the project concerned by the European Central Bank creates reasonable, but very reasonable, expectations that this project will not only be ours, but will be coordinated by the European Central Bank, which may also partly respond to the question of the funds required to walk it and start it. In other words, we are trying to identify - and I mentioned bankruptcy law - tools to address the problem, beyond the 'HRAKLIS', for which you are his father and I understand how much you appreciate it. But you cannot tell me that if a programme is going completely well - and I see it, you will prolong it - it can reach 30 billion, it can cover the problem of the 60 billion non-serious claims that banks have today. So we have started a good and creative debate, Mr President. I reserve my position tomorrow - because tomorrow another draft law of the Ministry of Finance begins - to be absolutely complete in all the elements that the Minister has made me reluctant to do. Well, we're clear that you're negative. Politics, Minister, it is obvious. Indeed, I was right about the report I made.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u112	Minister, I will give Mr Katrin the floor first to answer a whole question. Mr. Katrin, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have listened with real interest to the statement made by the Minister. Of course, he who, Minister, seems to be the opposite - and not politically - is not the Change Movement and who proposes the idea of introducing a Bad Bank into the operation for dealing with red loans is the Governor of the Bank of Greece. It says this very well in the annual report which it has communicated to us. In fact, it has also gone ahead with the recruitment of qualified consultants to study this proposal. Since the government is constantly at risk that if we go to this solution that, as the Parliamentary representative quite rightly said, has been proposed in an unintentional and concrete time for business loans and operation, will the Greek taxpayer pay the costs, why do you not say that there are guarantees of 12 billion in the Greek state as well? Why don't you say that, according to the central banker's report, two out of three regulated loans are red in quarters? Why do you not say that there is a visible risk that red loans will be disbursed, because today the picture presented is because of the decisions of the supervisory authorities and the Greek banks that the credit obligations should be suspended or regulated, with two out of three rekindling within three months? So you must accept that HERAKLIS has not moved forward at the rate that you assured us seven months before this Chamber. And I do not see whether, by the end of 2020, more than two of the four domestic institutions will proceed with the securitisation programme. I think we should start this debate and say it again. It's not a dispute between the government and the Change Movement. It is a proposal of the Change Movement, which it restores. And I think that the central banker, which I think is probably interpreting the available resources of the European Central Bank, is urgently reintroducing it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u114	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say that, as you have seen so far and throughout this year, especially in banking, the government is open to all thoughts, to all ideas, to all plans. However, the political decision to move on to something. HERAKLIS proceeds with his progress, possibly with a few short months' delays due to the crisis. But they've all stated, all four systemic banks, that they're coming in. Three securitisations of 7.5 billion have already been approved. In other words, in a short time, we will have a reduction of around EUR 35 billion in red loans. And you're right, you're saying there's another department left. We will see what can be done with the other section, when we first have made it clear with the first red loan horn. What I wanted to say, in order to avoid confusion, is that there is another guarantee for the Greek State, for which there is an infinite incidence of the fall of 12 billion, and another case of bad bank, where the money comes in. This is a cash indication. Don't mess with it. You're quite experienced in these matters. I would like, in other words, once again to say - and to close this debate - that anyone who has proposals should at least consider or have worked out four key issues of any project. The first is the financial cost. Very important. In other words, what falls into the "plate" of the Greek taxpayer. The second is what the supervisory cost is, i.e. what capital will cost the banks. The third very important, Mr Loverdos, is whether it is compatible with European State aid legislation and BRD. Look at it in particular. The fourth is whether this scheme is really acceptable to the investor, who will have to put the money. Four questions. Think about it and here we're talking as much as you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Minister. There was a fruitful dialogue. We continue with the Member of the New Democracy Mr Dimitris Vartzopoulos, who has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when the Committee decided in 2006 to give the Nobel Peace Prize to Mohamed Yunus and Grameen Bank, it said that it did so because this possibility of granting micro-credits without any guarantee to the poorest of the poor has enabled them to build an independent existence. It turned out that in Bangladesh, which took place in the 1980s and later in Kenya, which the Equality Bank did, was a very useful tool for economic development in general in developing countries. But not just in developing countries. It has proved, as other colleagues have said, that in the West, which has been adopted and developed, of course at a different level, it is a very useful instrument for economic policy and financial policy, which gives the first opportunity to people who start their economic life, the second chance for people who have been unhappy or unemployed and helps many small- and medium-sized enterprises to grow, specialise and invest. That is why this success has been so much forced by the European Union and has also issued this Code of Good Practice, which we are using today in this bill. The question, of course, is that apart from that - and that, Minister, I think it is something that we need to stress - there are in this bill and possibilities of consultancy. First of all, we need to realise that 26% of the workforce, of the workers, in our country are freelance professionals, that they are micro-enterprises of individual enterprises, are self-employed. And, as the President of the Athens Chamber of Commerce said, 50% of all of these do not have free access to the banking system. So it is very important that you have the possibility of giving up to this level of EUR 25 000 any form of credit. In other words, both for investments and for working capital and for time-shares and for own guarantees. In this way it enables them to develop and create a healthy basis for the future. As I said before, however, it is important to stress the fact that these institutions which will grant these micro-credits also have a guiding, advisory character. This consultative character enables specialization, as it does abroad, and therefore enables a level of service to develop much better and more efficiently. And much more there can be a development tool. How? In cooperation with these microcredit companies, both with the chambers of commerce and with OAED, they can guide young people, for example the graduates of the OAED professional schools in the right directions. There are, of course, other possibilities for conducting a development policy that the bill gives. The legislator says that there is the possibility for the Greek State to guarantee the guarantee, within the framework of Union law, of course. This enables it to support specific sectors of the economy. There is, of course, something else, Minister, very important. We must take care of that, ladies and gentlemen. It is possible for the Minister to decide on new forms of financial activity, new forms of microcredit within the framework of the legislation we are voting on today. Here I would like to ask that we look at the centuries-old European cooperative tradition and the ideas of Vilhem Reifezen, who launched a cooperative movement that is currently acting in Central Europe and throughout the world and which is really taking place in many important areas. So, in line with these ideas of Rifeizen, we too could inaugurate here, and we could introduce micro-credit possibilities into teams of entrepreneurs, such as startups, young scientists, producer groups in the primary sector, and indeed with mutual guarantee, which I believe will be a small revolution in these areas. Ladies and gentlemen, it really is a tool of the social and solidarity economy, a tool that is aimed at vulnerable and special groups of the population. Rightly, then, as the disabled, they are the disobedients, they are the deported, they are the very poor, they are the people who are unemployed under twenty-five and over fifty-five years old. Here, Mr Minister, and I should like to congratulate you on your correct and rapid response to solve the misunderstanding caused by the unfortunate wording of Article 5 of Article 2, which mentioned Law 4430/2016, and to ensure that it is not possible to divide even micro-credits among people who do not lastly reside in the country, i.e. economic immigrants and asylum seekers. So rightly they are also beneficiaries of people who are planning an education, retraining or a period of apprenticeship. This, of course, gives us the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to think that it can from the back door, from the small courier to introduce into our home country the institution of student loans. It is well known that the student allowances we receive are given on extremely strict criteria and range at a level of between 350 and 400 euros. It is a great opportunity to relieve, ease stress on these people, parents who feel ashamed because they cannot study their children in other cities. It is a possibility to stop this crowding of tens of thousands. It was 12 thousand last year for applications for relocations. This is the way in which we can effectively pursue a real social policy. Ladies and gentlemen, the main aim of any social policy is to identify what they really need. We will find this in front of us, Minister, and the next piece of legislation to protect first residence and individual bankruptcy and any measure of social policy. Of course, strict criteria are needed and, of course, electronic platforms are useful in this direction. But let me say that these platforms, as long as we go down the socio-economic scale, begin and get sick, and when we get to great depths, they are unfortunately also in affliction. They don't understand what anyone tells them. So the only way to locate these audiences is to have a uniform, well-managed social service throughout the country, which will put the diagnoses on the ground, according to the best European social standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, too. The New Democracy MP Mr Vassiliou, who has the floor for seven minutes, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion concerns, in my opinion, a time-consciousness of the Greek economy, a lack of easy funding. Under normal circumstances, its resolution would mean supporting entrepreneurship, stimulating innovation and facilitating social mobility, three very important objectives. However, unfortunately, we are experiencing the reality that pandemic has imposed and its consequences. It is therefore more imperative than ever to adopt a new financing framework for those who need it more: small and medium-sized enterprises, newcomers and individual businesses. We won the critical battle with the coronary, but the war will be long. On the one hand, the very large proportion of the national product occupied by the tourism sector and the focus, on the other, the catastrophic manipulations of previous years make the Greek economy quite vulnerable, especially in relation to most Europeans. The diversification of the Greek economy and the balanced development of all sectors, the primary sector, industry and services, go right through entrepreneurship, innovation and social mobility, the three objectives I have just mentioned. All of us when we visit our regions the first problem our fellow citizens are telling us about is the lack of liquidity, followed by increased unemployment. At the same time, many entrepreneurs, while realising that their businesses are now unsustainable, have no opportunity to change their activities. This need is to be met today, a need which is recognised at European level as well. The credit of up to EUR 25 000, combined with business education and guidance advisory services, would solve the hands of many entrepreneurs, would allow an innovative idea to become a reality, would create new jobs. However, any intervention that facilitates economic activity poses risks of abuse. We must prevent black money from being tachypically and laundered. In my opinion, the draft law contains the necessary security differences. The definition of the Bank of Greece as a competent authority for supervision and authorisation of institutions and financing guarantees their proper supervision, as it has the appropriate experience, the necessary know-how and the logistics infrastructure. The establishment of a public register with continuous information and access electronically ensures the necessary transparency. In addition, the possibility of pooling resources from microfinance institutions and the national or co-financed part of the Public Investment Programme ensures that all available tools and resources, national and European, are used for the benefit of enterprises for their direct funding. In conclusion, this is a draft law which is useful and necessary for the Greek economy, which was recognised during the work of the committee responsible, with the participating bodies agreeing with the general guidelines, but also with the broad consensus reached after the government's corrective interventions in the spirit of the comments made by the rapporteurs of the counter-population. I welcome this consensus from the point of view of SYRIZA and KINAL and I call on both Members and other parties to vote in favour of a draft law which will only have a positive impact on the business of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises in the country. In conclusion, Mr President, let me refer to two further points of the draft. Having served both degrees of local government, I can only say a 'end' regarding the regulation on the discharge of TAs from the contribution of N.128/1975. There were also the relevant Court of Auditors decisions. It closes an unfinished situation that only created problems, both economic and bureaucratic. Finally, since I come from Pella, as I said earlier in my position, I experience the anxiety of liquidity every day, especially from Greek farmers. The rural economic year is not single, it has periods of increased commitments, and the granting of microfinance will work beneficially for the primary sector. In this context, any tax relief is in the right direction. Therefore, the proposed Article 35 is also important to extend the exemption from the supplementary ENPI and for 2020 of the agricultural parcels of natural persons. The same important thing is to vote in favour of Amendment No 365/47 on Article 3, to extend the possibility of facilitating access to funding for farmers' main professions without the obligation to produce insurance information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr Vassiliou. We should also welcome the commemorating Minister, Mr. Apostolos Vesiropoulos, and wish him many years and good strength.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u122	The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Finance entitled 'Small Financing Framework'. I think it is a bill which concerns the majority of citizens who need liquidity. It is a bill which had already been prepared for public consultation by the previous government, and it is good that the present government continues with it, but with a noticeable difference. We have called it a 'parallel financial system'. The reference to the 'parallel financing system' was not at all random because, if micro-credits, micro-finances, which are needed today by a large majority of enterprises, operate on banking criteria, then this draft law will be obsolete. I repeat that our warning difference is that the social sign is missing, the different culture in philosophy, as we had prepared the bill on micro-credits. I'm becoming more specific. Yes, although it is foreseen that there will be no safeguards for the granting of these credits, but guarantees can be requested and guaranteed. Furthermore, there is no clear limit, a clear provision for the interest rate of these sums. I am pleased, and it was a request, that the beneficiaries of this appropriation should also include farmers, especially young farmers. Because, you know, the well-known financial instruments prepared in May 2019 with the European Investment Bank and announced by the Minister for Rural Development in January 2000 that they will be implemented within four months, unfortunately even at the moment we are talking about have not been implemented. Therefore, the access of young farmers to this financial instrument is very important, necessary and imperative. I repeat that the social sign is missing. There is no culture according to which this instrument of financial credit will operate. You also had, in our view, to put as a supervisory authority not only the Bank of Greece but also the co-responsible ministries, because this tool is at risk, I repeat, function and become operational - let me say 'determine' - like the banks, as well as the well-known banking instruments. I shall briefly refer to social enterprises. The role and importance of social cooperatives, ladies and gentlemen, is very important. The financing of these enterprises was not and is not sufficient because of the lack of understanding of social enterprises by the relevant bodies. Social enterprises have had and have a primary social mission and therefore often give the impression to creditors or investors that they are not serious companies. Not at all. They help the social economy and the solidarity economy. That is why special attention must be paid to and supported, as was the previous policy, especially social cooperatives. In conclusion, Mr President, let us say that in principle we are in agreement with the draft law, but we must stress the notified difference, that for us it was a parallel financial programme, it was a programme with a different culture, a programme with a strong social profile, it was a programme according to which the institutions themselves, chambers, municipalities, social cooperatives, would form - not only under the supervision of the Bank of Greece - a new relationship of trust - creditor - debtor, yes away, but at the same time with the banking system known. That is why you must bear in mind all the things that we have said to you, and the rapporteurs and colleagues before you, because - I repeat and I close with that, Mr President - we must also cover young farmers. Because farmers, you know, are not paid every month. Farmers are paid twice a year and the financial instruments announced by the current government in January 2020 have unfortunately not been implemented yet. It will therefore really be a board of salvation for farmers to access the micro-credits included in this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u124	We also thank Mr. Kokalis and invite the SYRIZA MP, Mr. George Tsipras, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. The government, ladies and gentlemen, has brought to the vote a bill relating to an old proposal for a law by SYRIZA, a bill which, while seeking to meet a huge need today of small and very small entrepreneurship, which is thirsty for liquidity in the current circumstances, has not taken into account the objections and suggestions of operators, has not been heard by the institutions. First, to measure its own an old 2019 law proposal works on very small entrepreneurship in order to unlawfully clear revenues from local or foreign activities. Both the partial and not the full denomination of the shareholders of the financing companies and the non-requirement of their representatives' criminal registers leads them to the conclusion that they wish to hide the true sponsors and managers of these companies. The problem has been raised by the Bank of Greece itself here in the House, which is called upon to oversee. She didn't take any notice of you either. What did the Bank of Greece say? "If there is no possibility of control of shareholders' integrity by the methods applied by the Bank of Greece to other institutions, the institution cannot function properly and in a healthy manner. These individuals, whether natural persons or companies, must be examined at the outset and it is of enormous importance that, in order to get the institution started properly, there should be the possibility to exclude those who are provenly going with the intention of making money laundering, concealing criminal evidence. This is not provided for in the draft law.’ These are the words of the Bank of Greece by a representative. Secondly, the delegation of the supervision of these enterprises and of their transactions to the Bank of Greece, i.e. a private body, contrary to what is happening in the rest of Europe, will obviously be more burdensome to the difficulties of financing micro-enterprises and employees, based on the experience of the Bank of Greece's intervention in the procedures of the systemic banks. What is this experience to date? It is the experience of a central bank and a commander who is not interested in resolving the most of the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, considered as problematic or zombie, and not only does he not contribute to solving these problems, but he has repeatedly warned systemic banks in today's conditions to be spectacular in providing loans. To the present conditions of the pandemic! Furthermore, what will be the position of the Bank of Greece if any of the microcredit companies are a competitor for systemic banks? I would remind you that in 2019 the European Central Bank gave a negative opinion on the supervisory role of the Bank of Greece. In particular, the ECB’s opinion of 15-2-2019 clearly concludes that there is a conflict of interest with the tasks of the Bank of Greece and prejudges the possibility of authorisation and supervision by public bodies. In particular, he said: “The new tasks of the draft law are intended to entrust the Bank of Greece with respect to the authorisation and supervision of microfinance institutions and may lead to a conflict of interest with existing tasks of the Bank of Greece”. So, since there is a risk of conflict of interest and of consequent blockage, why does the authorisation not pass on to the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Development, which have a political interest in moving the framework on a large scale? The Bank of Greece itself, by its representative, reported that the part of transparency, consumer protection and all relevant issues should continue to be under the responsibility of the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Development. The assessment that can be carried out by the Bank of Greece is only in terms of experience and reputation. We can neither ask for criminal records nor anything. For the shareholders we cannot ask for anything at all. Third. There is no provision for a cap on the loan rate, which should exist, as in almost all the countries of Europe and third countries. In France, for example, it does not exceed 133% of the average bank interest rate. And we are talking about countries where, anyway, the average does not exceed 5%, when in Greece it is over 7%. So there must be a limit to the cape. In an effort to recover the affected and threatened business sectors, in order to become competitive with multinational groups or imported goods, the interest rate may be below the average of the bank interest rates under the responsibility of the Development Bank. Fourth. We risk leading to an oligopolistic system of financial advice to small enterprises, starting from their accountants to financial advisors offering co-financed projects management services, etc. This results from the establishment of mandatory advisory services by the financing companies, which are not identified and which will be offered by them to candidate customers. In this way, it is expected to create a suffocating relationship between micro-enterprises and financing companies. At the same time, accountants, economists, etc., will become dependants of the financing companies themselves. Five, and I'm closing with it. The very small Greek company that is unable to access the systemic banking system is unlikely to find guarantors in order to obtain a EUR 10,000 or EUR 20,000 grant, without having to make a commitment to the home or small business space. The risk of a new bulk of seizures and auctions is announced before the law even starts to work. And these, when in the Greek economy the phenomenon of the tug-up of the illegal banks, which were operating in previous years with dramatic results for many small businessmen, is known. Finally, no State guarantees for loans at zero interest rates, as is the case in France and other countries, have been considered. In summary, what we are discussing today would be a parallel system of banking services to people who do not have access to the banking system. This would also be a decisive component in a society of dignity and equal opportunities. In practice, people with competences can thus raise money from a microcredit system and also have the possibility of starting or continuing activity. In its ideal form such a system, together with a high-quality free education system, could also strengthen social mobility, but also reduce inequalities. Does this bill serve these principles, these purposes? It's only on purpose. Firstly, it does not build a genuinely second parallel financing system, since it effectively places it under the control of the deep banking system. Secondly, it does not limits the need to provide guarantees. Thirdly, it does not set limits to the level of the interest rate. Fourthly, it does not control those who will establish micro-credit companies, i.e. fit and proper, or on the contrary whether it legalises taboo. One example. A clothing repair company needs 20,000 euros for a change of equipment. She's never been to a bank, no debts, no real estate. Still, today he's taking off a good piece of money maybe from his job. This is an ideal case where a microcredit system would have been in place. But in the way this applies, firstly, it is at risk of a very high credit card rate, for example 16% or more, and it does not protect him, secondly, from not being able to get money, since it provides for guarantees it does not have. The problem would not exist if you had foreseen, together with this bill and a credit rating system or so-called 'White Tyresia', if someone had a history of a good-payer, the bill prohibited companies from seeking guarantees if it had put a limit on the interest rate at least at the level of the consumer loan. With all this, you have brought a law, which in words wants to satisfy an existent huge need of Greek small and very small entrepreneurship, but the holes are too great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, too. Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglu from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, we are discussing a bill for which both the Government and the Qualified Opposition claim to have been their own business. Microcredit is an institution in Europe that has worked effectively for weak social groups, poor people, young people who have an idea and need a small business plan to be financed. There's a huge experience. And so while he worked on it long, SYRIZA says, and while the government worked on it for a year, now listen to the good news. The main role of the provider is that of social enterprises, local authorities, municipalities and chambers. This time, then, the Civic Opposition was working as a government - so he told us - so long has been working on it, the current government, who watched it as an official opposition, and brought it with legislative improvements: both the COMCOMPs and the social companies, to be beneficiaries but not the providers, and a half regulation, that they can also qualify for the municipalities and chambers. Listen. Whether we are using Europe's experience and adapting it to our own data, to bring about a result, or simply making a bill to say that we in Greece did the institution, without being interested in its effectiveness. And this is an example that in many cases, unfortunately, while there is legislation, while there is law, there is no social or economic result, there is no impact. So it's a disadvantage, too. Good legislation is not being observed either in the press or in substance, because, if it were to be the case, these proposals which have been tabled in many respects during the consultation could actually have been incorporated. One is that. A positive amendment to the fact that social enterprises are beneficiaries. Negative to modify that they cannot be providers. Too much negative. The same thing, as I have told you, for the municipalities and chambers, which I typically only believe are involved. A second issue in the bill is arrangements for matters to which the State, the government, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance owed a solution. One issue concerns the ENVIRONMENT of farmers and the end of trade. And the government is coming once again - the previous one, it is doing so too - to postpone the implementation of the EMFF for farmers, rather than abolishing or reforming it. I can't believe you're giving it a year, two, three or four. This is where the kitten pulls a lot. What does that mean? Is there an informal agreement between the two parties to maintain this tax and to return when the conditions are mature? Why not dismantle? Why not abolish the trade fee for farmers? There is also the regulation that we had requested and welcomed Mr Besiropoulos' initiative to regulate this House. Happy birthday, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u128	Thank you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u129	We will add and succeed, because at the difficult time that we are going through the Ministry of Finance has a key role, and we really need to have successes in what we are seeking solutions to accumulated problems, sustainable solutions. And don't target us. I'll say it one more time. We are not investing in the failure of measures and the existence of acute problems, because these problems unfortunately strike the weak. We are investing in demanding, proposing and pushing your decisions towards solutions for people and ordinary people. And here, Minister, you're not telling us well. The regulation on pensioners, unfortunately, does not fully recognise the sliding of the relevant services. I don't know who they are and I don't want to name them. I think I know who they are, but I don't want to name them. These services have arbitrarily and misused, illegally inside the system and made statements on behalf of pensioners, taxpayers. That's unauthorized. Should've dropped the axe heavy. Because if this simple matter comes in and do such a job, imagine, in other matters, they go in and make other corrections. Imagine. I am not saying that they are imposing taxes, but also postponing taxes and deletion of taxes. Did you check that? So to be clean, they badly walked in. We must start before this intervention by the services that entered and made the statements and say in a fair manner that the amendment is in this direction, but to a very small extent. No fine, no surcharge. Is it possible for pensioners, who took some retrospectively, who the state illegally removed them, unconstitutionally, rather, in the decision of the Council of State that came to them to pay the bride? I invite you, at least at the last minute, to remove this 20%, the fine and the possibility that you give us, not to burden people. Instead of giving them benefits to live, make them relief now. Same thing. A relief which they are entitled to. This is a fair solution. She's right, Mr. Vessiropoulos. We'll applaud you if you do. We'll applaud you. We have no problem doing it, but do it. Not half the things and unfair. And I close with what you have to do with the checks and regulations you have brought. The regulation of the Ministry of Finance on the cheques accepts the criticism we made in the previous period that it had only a limited framework for the CARs concerning tourism. And it accepts this because it actually creates a mechanism so that all undertakings that have a specific turnover over a given period are considered to be active in the tourist season, that they can be beneficiaries of this 'right' measure, the right in introductory form, because you have not taken into account the beneficiaries, the bearers and how they will pay their obligations, the banks where there is no deferral. In any case, the fair, even for the issuer. Here, then, there is the problem: You know very well that in all the activities, and especially those concerning services of the summer, the months of July, August and September, which is the heart of summer - it is not the tourist season, the tourist season starts on 1 April - you could have had it set from 1 April to 70%. You didn't take it off. You chose three months. I'm making a request. It has also been proposed by our rapporteur, Michael Katrinis. The month of October, which is the month of invoices, enters the calculation. Just as you have the setting, add July, August, September and October. In October the invoices were invoiced. We're people in the market. We know about this. You know them much more than you do, of course, the previous one. You know that. There can be no missing October from the calculation. It's about the past few months. The last word I would like to say is this: you are fearlessly dismantling the tax advance for companies affected and reducing 50% for others. It's a fair measure, too. It is necessary to avoid a recession in the depths. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, too. Mrs. Hara Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we're going back a little bit. I would remind you that at the time of the memorandum, especially the third memorandum, as we say, we are very often inquiring as SYRIZA, if the programme was owned. I will answer that the bill, which we are debating today on micro-credits, is the property of SYRIZA. It is something that, along with the Development Bank, we would say, is the work of our Government. We always said, as SYRIZA, that we need to create an alternative banking system, a parallel banking system to the conventional classic - I would say - credit system. Especially at the time of the memorandum and during those years, small and medium-sized enterprises collapsed after one another and small and medium-sized enterprises were on the way, because there was a weakness in lending and a lack of liquidity. Let us not forget here and the recapitalisations of the banks made with the Greek people's money, but liquidity in the companies was not there. There was even a risk for the first residence of small and medium-sized enterprises and traders who had promised their home for lending. All this, of course, very well, we must not forget the period 2012-2015. Here, for the first residence, I would remind you that with the law passed by SYRIZA as long as it was government, they entered the extrajudicial mechanism and the traders for the first time. So micro-credits, ladies and gentlemen, the Development Bank is one of our tasks. We are, of course, pleased that the New Democracy is tabling this and we are discussing it today in the House. But I would like to remind you that this logic has been implemented for two decades in Europe. The financing, which is done, is carried out under different criteria. Assets shall not be permitted, and consultancy services shall be provided by those institutions which will grant microfinances. That's important. In fact, the aim is to be developmental and, of course, to have a social character. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government, beyond the triumphs we hear about the handling of the government in the crisis, and all that we have been going through recently with the pandemic - we have heard, in the morning, Mr Zavvos, the State Secretary responsible, talking about the ERAKLIS programme for banks, we have 12 billion guarantees to the banks, to the businesses, of course, I do not know what - we hear even about the measures he mentioned, which were taken through a pandemic. And because of pandemic some financial tools came out. And these are successes. But what is the reality? Because based on reality, we always have to talk. What is the reality on the market? What is the reality in small and medium-sized entrepreneurship? I will not say here the positions of SYRIZA known through "We stay upright I", "We stay upright II". We have formulated the need for forward support for businesses, even now. But what the representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises, their organs, chambers of commerce, GATT, say. We made an effort last week to discuss in the Committee on Production and Trade on the basis of the positions of GATT. There was a debate. Of course, GSEE wasn't called. This also raises questions for the government, because it was not called. Anyway, GSEBEE, the Athens Chamber of Professionals have specific positions and proposals. I will mention what the President of the European Parliament said on 18 June: 'A large part of the businesses cannot be subject to financial programmes. The packages will be increased and unemployment extended.’ With its institute in mid-April, GSE had done an investigation which said that after the crisis - then we were still in lockdown - one out of seven companies. What will happen, Minister, gentlemen of the government, from September onwards? I'm not just talking about now. Because many businesses didn't even open up. From September onwards, when debts and deferral obligations are accumulated, with changes in the obligations of the various companies, tax, insurance etc., together with the new ones that will be created, the problem will be very great. This is where I have to say another element. In mid-June 2020, in your returnable advance on this programme, ladies and gentlemen of the government, fifty-three thousand businesses have only entered. It's estimated that over a hundred and twenty thousand won't get into this program. I would remind you that small and medium-sized enterprises are around seven hundred and fifty thousand in our country. This raises too many issues. This micro-credit bill, in fact, is a breath - we will not question this - for the companies excluded from the classic credit system. We think it is a good thing that the government has accepted the integration of social enterprises, chambers and local authorities. But there are some issues. There is, for example, a question for interest rates to have a ceiling. Mr. Minister, Mr. Stakouras, I think, did not respond positively. He'll see that thing. It can't be. There must be a roof. On the other hand, the suitability of members who will be involved in the share capital of such a loan operation is a very serious issue. Of course, with the role of the Bank of Greece's supervisory body, there is one issue. Ladies and gentlemen, however, it is essential in all the functions of this new financial instrument that there is transparency, that we do not have data on possible money laundering, that customer logic should be avoided. This is very important. In this - let me say - the success and implementation of this bill will be judged. And we're here to monitor all the procedures. We are here because support for small and medium-sized enterprises is more than necessary. We are all talking - all political forces - about the backbone of the Greek economy, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, etc. But the policies that are being implemented are also a matter. Have you made, Mr. Ministers, stroll around the neighborhoods to talk to the small and medium-sized ones, with the small trader, what's the situation today? Let me say that I doubt that. Here comes a question in general: does the government want small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, with its practice and policy to date? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, too. To prepare for the Step, in order to call on the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Spanakis, who has two small names. He's also Kingdom and Peter. He was celebrating yesterday, but also today, for Peter was one of the Apostles. We wish him many years, as we wished our Minister. Mr. Spankee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in a few hours' time the Greek Parliament will be called upon to adopt a real framework law to strengthen market liquidity. We are creating a real pillow for the economy with the bill for the creation of microcredit institutions and not a pillow through the overtaxation brought by the unsuccessful economic policy of the previous government of SYRIZA and ANELs. With this bill, however, we are resolving other issues, such as the way in which retroactive pensioners are taxed, which we are dealing with with with a real tax justice, because at the request of the taxpayer a new act is issued by the tax administration by which additional taxes or late payment interest are limited to 20% of the main tax, and of course no fine is imposed. It was an issue that we had raised several months ago and today's bill gives a solution. This draft law, under Article 32, gives the possibility of lifting the immobilisation of a car or a private motorcycle, on a pro rata basis of the twelfths of the annual traffic charges corresponding to the months of lifting of the vehicle. The draft law, however, exempts the microfinance contracts from paper and from the contribution of Law No 128/1975. And now we're going to see the microfinance contracts. I think, Minister, that the word'small' may be unfair to the bill, because the ten or fifteen or twenty-five grand for some persons is an important sum, a catalyst for their survival. And let's go and see the beneficiaries as well, so we can talk about things in simple words. We're talking about small entities. We are talking about natural persons to set up very small entities, but also of natural persons already engaged in business. So, in short, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government is coming with this bill to give a real liquidity injection and to come to the strategic goal, which is to keep the machines of the economy open. Because, this is our first strategic objective, this is for 2020. Why be sure that in 2021, the success we had in dealing with the health crisis, Greece - the Greek economy, the Greek businesses, the Greek taxpayers - will capitalise this credibility, because Greece has a high degree of confidence because it has this government. That is why this country and that economy have this high level of confidence. But let me go to another debate. Beneficiaries, says the law, are also natural persons belonging to vulnerable social groups. Allow me here to put forward some thoughts that can become a tool for the future. Because, in fact, this bill, ladies and gentlemen, is a real tool for the economy and liquidity. But, by saying'socially vulnerable groups', I would like you to accept that we need to include other groups in this category. And this bill gives the Minister of Finance a flexibility, the Minister of Development, the Minister of Labour, so that they can come with their relevant decisions to change the limit of funding, and what categories of beneficiaries we can have. And I ask: in future, we must not see other social groups, such as civil servants, such as uniforms, police officers, firefighters, military, pensioners, who today live with the temporary pension due to bad policies of the Ministry of Labour of the previous government, OTA officials I and II grades, even unions, clubs and federations, which many of the clubs and unions today can actually contribute to this large section. Because this bill is a bill for the liquidity of the Greek economy and micro and micro-enterprises. I have listened with real interest to colleagues from the Confederal Group of the European United Left to speak about transparency. This bill says it all. We are talking about registering in particular, about monitoring, about accounting, about absolute transparency and, of course, about the supervision that the Bank of Greece will have. Ladies and gentlemen, the steps that have been taken are and are quickly, are both reasonable and unfortunately they are necessary. Because we have had this health crisis, which has these effects, but on the other hand we have seen a government that has very strong and serious reflexes. This bill that comes today to vote shows that this government also has strategic goals, has vision, knows the problems, listens to the market. In order to respond to his colleague SYRIZA, I would like to say that you cannot have walked the market more than we did, the need for businesses, the public administration, which you left at the mercy of God, the civil servants you deceived and filled the public with posters. And there's a new government, a reformist government, the New Democracy government to give another breath at all levels. And let me close, because today is the good friend, colleague and Minister, Apostolis Besiropoulos, to wish him many years from the Step, to have health and success in his work and, indeed, to the issues of his political life. I really want to say that today, Minister, because I am aware of your concern in the context of the upgrading of public administration, I have tabled a question and have spoken about the immediate need to create the Old Faliro Doll, Nea Smirni and Alimos. Because you have received this, because for many years some have been dormant. Now you guys need to get the snake out of the hole. In this sense, therefore, I would like this to be done for one single reason: in order to serve taxpayers, to serve natural and legal persons. I know very well that with Article 30 you are bringing - which you really want tax justice in terms of how pensioners' retrospectives are taxed, not only until 31 December 2013, but then - you are giving a great deal of basis to the service of all taxpayers. That is why we need to see together, together, how we are going to change our services and see that serious improvements have been made in the health crisis as far as the services are concerned. In these words, therefore, I, too, urge all Parliament's wings to vote on this bill, which is a bill of incorporation. It is a framework bill to strengthen the liquidity needed by the Greek economy, a bill that hits the heart. For this reason, we must all show that, in a spirit of unity, we are voting for all this, which will actually keep the Greek economy up and not communication, as SYRIZA does, which, after a positive measure of the New Democracy comes out with one of its own measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u134	I'd like to invite the member of the Change Movement, Mr. George Mulkiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, long and healthy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, those who move inside the market know that the vast majority of small and medium-sized enterprises that are also the backbone of the Greek economy are at the edge of survival if they have not already been overtaken. Their resilience has proved extremely limited and the shock of Lockdown combined with the uncertainty about the evolution of demand in the short term, may lead to a huge wave of bankruptcy in the fall, when they find deferred tax insurance and their credit liabilities ahead. The marginal situation of the private economy, which now meets the marginal situation in which the country's finances are in order to survive, has put all the hopes on the funds that are expected to flow from the God machine from Brussels called the Recovery Fund. From a machine god or a machine gods, however, there were only in the ancient tragedy. For the wetlands in Greece, the European Recovery Fund is a source to which, however, the country may not be able to reach and drink water. Because the key question, ladies and gentlemen, is what economy will appear in Brussels in the year 2021 to ask for funds and to recover. It will appear with what is left of the already existing and present disaster of the country's productive tissue from the past decade and its well-known results. And until the first liquidity comes to small and medium-sized enterprises, we will catch in 2022, as the Minister himself confessed, the year of another reality. Only then will nothing left in this Greek economy and have collapsed everything. The Greek economy now needs a strong injection of liquidity, but not in the form of deferred taxes or deferred loans. Giving a loan today, ladies and gentlemen, to a business to collect it after a year is like closing it in a year. By exempting it from paying taxes for three months, it's like shutting it down in three months. And this operation, if he knows, won't wait for either time or quarter. She'll be closed by herself now. We know, Minister, that the findings of the research carried out by the institute of small and medium-sized enterprises in GATT say that by the end of the year some 90 000 jobs are at risk of being lost. One out of three, that is 33,9% of firms are afraid of getting into a locker. Eight out of ten companies stated that their turnover was reduced last month compared with last year's turnover. 55.1% of enterprises say that they are not satisfied with government aid measures. 46% is the average price of lowering the turnover of small and medium-sized enterprises. 21.1% of enterprises estimate that they will make redundancies. In fact, compared to a corresponding survey conducted in April 2020, a significant change in business estimates is recorded, as in the previous survey this rate was 12.7%. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is a sign that the measures taken so far by the Government for the containment of employment and the reduction of unemployment will not have the anticipated effectiveness. From the first days and even before any government measures for the economy were announced, the Change Movement set out as a key political project the development of a comprehensive plan, a national plan, direct interventions to address the economic crisis to keep society up and the economy alive. And while today in dealing with this second major crisis, the country is in completely different circumstances from the year 2009 - since it does not face an empty public fund with the beasts at that time, but with surpluses, which are bloody, despite the over-taxation of citizens, but which fuelled the public reserve - your reflexes, Minister, are very worrying. Why? For you have proved more than hesitant - not to say inadequate - than the affected companies that had to join the support measures. At the same time, you rejected the amendment to the Change Movement which provides for a zero tax payment for the firms affected and a 50% reduction in the advance for all businesses and entrepreneurs. You remain committed to the false draft "Consumer - WORK" instead of the adoption of the proposals of the Change Movement for a universal project for work and for the unemployed. Your performance in the agri-food sector is tragic and completely inconsistent with the announcements made by the relevant Minister in the field of tourism. The announcement of a reduction in VAT on the tourist package stayed in the air. The institution of the quarantine hotel sanctified, while ignoring our proposal to implement a single domestic tourism programme for three million beneficiaries that would trigger 15 million nights and create seven million days of workers. The rejection of the proposal of the Change Movement to cover 40% of employees' wages and insurance contributions for six months to businesses affected by the crisis and your insistence on the "Consumer - WORK" programme will be fatal. I wish that's not the case, but unfortunately I'm afraid, and we see it being fatal. The same is the rejection of our proposal to increase the available resources of TIPIX II and the other liquidity programmes that will broaden the cycle of beneficiaries with a key criterion of sustainability beyond the bank briefings until December 31, 2019. Micro-credits and micro-financing are only a dot in an endless ocean. They can actually fill a gap in financing requirements both for businesses and those with low incomes because financing from banks is not always easy. That is why we voted in favour of this bill in principle. But microfinance has not only to do with credit, but also requires the provision of training for beneficiaries from micro-credit institutions. It is necessary and we all know it. As we also know that micro-credits are not enough, and that is why the government should review its priority and strengthen liquidity with its tools, even if it needs to go into conflict with a bourgeoistic and rigid banking system. Minister, what we say you have not accepted. You have not accepted, too, the amendment on the judiciary and now come one - one court, saying that it is unconstitutional. Nor did you accept yesterday the amendment concerning the classification of workers in the distribution of bankruptcy. It is a great mistake, because any credibility is being compromised. Unfortunately, we did not accept our amendment yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u138	Thank you. I should like to invite the Minister, Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos, who, on the day of his nominal holiday, is in his duty. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you all and everyone for your wishes. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has taken responsibility for solving the problem with the taxation of pensioners' retroactives. We have therefore tabled the provision of Article 30 of this draft law which solves the problem with the retroactive pension amounts for which pensioners were asked to pay tax. This is a large proportion of retroactive pensions received in 2013 by pensioners, but who did not include these amounts in their tax declaration and thus charged them with tax. Among these cases resulted in a number of tax-fixing operations which were issued despite the fact that these incomes had been included by the taxpayers in the declarations submitted. The Government, by means of its legislation, restores this unequal treatment which has caused great problems for certain pensioners. It is now possible to correct the liquidators either at the request of the taxpayer or at the request of the ADP itself. The new procedure will enable the tax administration to make a corrective action on the basis of the information to be provided to the competent DUs in order to ensure that the relevant amounts are taxed on the uses in which they are actually raised and not on the whole in the year in which they were collected. It is also foreseen that fines will not be imposed, while the increase imposed on pensioners who have received their first pension will be considerably reduced, without time-consuming audit procedures. From there on, the question of limitation posed by some has no basis and I will explain why. The provision of Article 140(1) of Law 4270/2014 on public accounting does not apply in the case of pensioners. In particular, Law 4270/2014 provides that: ‘any claim against the State, other than those for which the provisions of the Code on Tax Procedure apply, is to be recorded after five years, provided that no shorter period of limitation is laid down and, in the case of pensioners’ retrospectives, the Code on Tax Procedure applies. That's clear. The Code of Tax Procedure therefore provides in Article 72(11) that provisions for the limitation of the right of the State to release tax, fees, contributions, fines, prerogatives of Article 36 of the Code on Tax Procedure continue to apply to the use, periods, assumptions and tax obligations to which they relate. For years until 31/12/2013, Law 2238/1994, which states that ‘the notification of a control sheet under Article 69 may not take place after a period of five years from the end of the year, within which the deadline for the performance of the declaration expires. The right of the State to impose the tax shall be waived after five years.’ Therefore, the limitation of the retrospectives paid in 2013 does not depend on what year they are concerned with, but on when there was an obligation to declare them. For retrospectives paid in 2013, the deadline for the submission of the declaration shall be 2014, irrespective of the year in which they are raised. In the light of the above provisions, the limitation period for retroactives paid in 2013 starts from 31-12/2014. In other words, from the end of the year in which the deadline for the declaration expires and is completed at 31-12-2019 after five years. The legislative initiative taken by the government is the most appropriate and realistic solution to the problem faced by thousands of pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to the amendment tabled by SYRIZA colleagues on the exemption from HISPIA from the islands of less than a thousand inhabitants. People's populism and clandestineness continue to remain the main features of the party's political practice, which is why the majority of citizens and society have turned their backs on them. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] No matter what disorientation efforts the Civic Response is, citizens know that the one who reduced HNVIA was Kyriakos Mitsotakis. For the first time, clearing was issued for HNVY with a reduced tax with the Government of New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. They will also be in place this year, while the creation of a financial area will be exploited toward a new reduction in HICPIA in the future. At the moment, for real estate of up to 60,000 euros, the percentage of HNVY reduction is 30%. In this category, beneficiaries are 4.9 million taxpayers, representing 67% of all taxpayers of natural persons for whom tax is due. For real estate of up to 70,000 euros, the percentage of the reduction is 27%. In this category, there are three hundred forty-four thousand taxpayers who account for 5% of all taxpayers. For real estate of up to 80,000 euros, the percentage of HIS reduction is 25%. In this category, there are two hundred and eighty-three thousand taxpayers who account for 4% of all the taxpayers who are taxed. For real estate of up to a million euros, the percentage of HNVIA reduction is 20%. In this category, beneficiaries are 1.8 million taxpayers, representing 24% of all taxpayers of natural persons for whom tax is due. On the substance of the matter now, the amendment tabled is not simply rough, it is inappropriate and I will explain why: Firstly, the notion of resident cannot be determined in order to implement the exemption electronically, since the Tax Code is not supported or controlled, but takes into account any movement of a taxpayer declared by it. Secondly, the permanent resident of a small island is very likely to own other real estate in any other precise and privileged area of Greece and any exemption of some properties will perhaps lead to the calculation of the additional ENVIA at a lower rate. So a resident of a small island with real estate ‘fillets’ in expensive areas of Athens and high-value real estate will be relieved from HISA? Is that your logic? Third, it is not apparent whether the concept of the small island is taken on the basis of their legal or actual population, since the 2011 census has different sizes in these two populations, resulting in the admission of one or other concept to create a reaction from the other non-beneficiaries on a case-by-case basis. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA had promised to abolish HISBIA, but as a government it increased it. Citizens have memory and judgment. They know that the Government of New Democracy was the only one that proceeded to the first significant reduction in ENPY. And it is not the only one, there will be further reductions, because at the heart of our policy it is not overtaxation, as was the case with the previous government, but lowering taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Minister, and many years. I'm called Apostle, and the Change Movement rejoices Mr. Pana. Dodecanese, Mr. Ioannis Pappas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again in Parliament discussing a piece of legislation which is coming to limit the consequences of the pandemic, a bill which was passed last week on to a majority vote. I shall now ask the few Members here today who are here to follow a succinct course, especially since the consequences of the pandemic do not stand out for political position. So let's see what exactly the draft law provides for. In this draft law, critical interventions are being implemented to support micro-enterprises, but also social groups excluded from banking funding. I do not believe that anyone disagrees that microfinance is crucial to an economy that primarily consists of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. The microfinance law is a substantial interference. The aim of this intervention is to strengthen the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises and, in particular, those who want to start a new start no matter how difficult this is at the present juncture. At the same time, there is a framework which can lead to the reduction of unemployment, to an increase in the productive fabric of the country, but also to a significant reduction in the economy. This creates in difficult conditions all the conditions for the development of a healthy business culture, a culture that has been missing from previous years, and that has already cost us too much. Funding institutions, which will operate under the supervision of the Bank of Greece, will be able to provide loans of up to 25,000 euros without collateral. Beneficiaries of these micro-loans may be very small businesses, natural persons who want to start a new business or be trained, but also farmers. These microcredits can also be used definitively to serve public policies in excluded and vulnerable social groups. In addition, this draft law provides for the exemption from the EMPH for agricultural parcels for 2020. Also very important are the provision of the draft law providing for the payment of traffic charges by month, and the lifting of immobilities by car. So far I don't think there's anyone who can argue. Ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of the draft law on micro-loans follow on from the initiatives taken by the government to deal with the consequences of the great pandemic. Several measures have been taken to strengthen the liquidity of businesses and to support workers, measures taken not on the one hand, as SYRIZA's colleagues have said, who found money as magicians in hats, but progressively and progressively. Every need to be observed becomes the best possible effort to cope with. And believe me, we've done it so far, Minister. I cannot, however, refer here to the necessary interventions by the Minister of State, Mr Stavoura, by the Minister, Mr Apostolos Vésyropoulos, which I wish him many years, but also to Mr Pylakakakis and all the financial staff for which we are voting today. I am referring to changes to measures for seasonal enterprises, which have entered the draft law of the Ministry of Finance, very important to us, very important to our islands, very important to the whole world because my region of southern Aegean, the Dodecanese prefecture, 98% is their lives, our GDP is tourism and all businesses live from tourism, our entire economy, our entire market is tourism. For all seasonal enterprises, therefore, it is ensured that securities, securities due from operators operating on a seasonal basis and that their largest turnover is identified in July, August and September. This is how we distinguished businesses as seasonal, which are mostly almost all enterprises in the Aegean islands and in the region of my prefecture in the Dodecanese. It ensures the main thing that the extension of their appearance for payment and, in addition, their non-inclusion in the TECSIA for seventy-five days. It is a multiplier of the importance of this regulation since they are protected and those who hold such securities and which constitute more than 20% of their turnover, and they are protected and that is important because we are protecting the recipient of the check. It was necessary to support the seasonal enterprises, which you believe accept me with a huge blow. The tertiary sector, which was hit by pandemic, and these blows do not say to stop. But is that enough? Can the state restart the economy itself? What if you want them to be healthy to do this state? The answer is no to everything. In the 21st century the state cannot and must not become an entrepreneur again. In Greece 2020 the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis shows the way. Who should see this way? Who should they finally get the message? The banks. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time that the banks have to do their job, give access to financial instruments, businesses and open up the famous liquidity, which is one of the words that is now heard more than ever. But this process must be done now and not wait for the difficult winter. We must not get to the point where we can see that something has been late, because ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, it will already be too late. The government has shown that it has priority for relaunching the economy and protecting jobs. It is necessary to support companies in liquidity and flexibility. Nor do I consider that, ladies and gentlemen, anyone here disagrees with this House. Ladies and gentlemen, there are other steps we can take, initiatives now for the future. I will repeat my proposal that every time I say it in here and I would like the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry's staff to review it, it is very important and necessary for the survival of businesses and residents on the Aegean islands and across the Aegean Sea and on our islands in Dodecanese, I am talking about the reintroduction of the reduced tax rates on all Aegean islands. It is a necessary change that should be made to protect our local communities and our islands. In the past few days, and until noon today, I was in my islands, in the Dodecanese, which until last year had flowed from life and tourists. Unfortunately, the image is tragic, pessimistic, closed everything. I saw people who are worried about the present, but they are particularly concerned about the future, people of hardship, the daily effort that they are struggling for this summer's evolution, but more are fighting for the difficult winter that comes. We must listen to the voices and anguishs of these people. Our power is these people of daily labor, the people and their needs that give us the impetus and motivation to work harder, the work that makes the financial staff and all of us to reduce these difficult consequences of pandemic. We are also working systematically with a plan to get our homeland back to development. The pandemic went around the world, the whole planet, all the savings steps back. We are here to prove that we have taken steps back to take forth and make the leap of change, change in economy, change in growth, change in how to deal with the crisis. I would very much like there to be a change in the political spirit of this Chamber, but unfortunately, that is why we are still far away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. From the Dodecanese back in Athens, Mr. Zachariadis of SYRIZA. Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor for seven whole minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, it is very interesting to be in New Democracy, to win with a difference in the elections with an ultra-neoliberal programme and in the first eight months, and while you have not done well before a coronary - the economy had been under a recession already in the fourth quarter of 2019 - to start by urgently talking about the public health system, about the role of the state and the relationship between the state and citizens in crisis, about a parallel financial and financial system with a development bank and microcredits. What happened? Has the New Democracy become a Social Democratic Party? Changed views or ideas? No, of course not. It was just revealed that in times of crisis the ideological arsenal of the New Democracy is poor, is ineffective and completely weak. What actually happens is that the ideological nakedness of the New Democracy appeared. But because you do not have the paternity or motherhood of these ideas, because you do not own those which are related to social policy and welfare policy, which is why many of the messages emitted are contradictory, without depth, without analysis, conflicting. You have not heard us from the outset in managing this economic crisis and the pandemic. You didn't hear the world of entrepreneurship. You didn't hear the chambers, the agencies. You didn't want to see the models used by other European countries. When the debate on economic and social issues took place, the representative of the New Democracy played the same tape "Society receives positive and responds positively to the Mitsotakis initiatives". What were you talking about? "We're in front of the polls, don't talk." I find it very interesting and very entertaining that you are trying today, in the absence of your programme, to look like a progressive and centre-left party, especially when KINAL makes an effort to look like New Democracy. I want to remind you of something. In October 2009, PASOK triumphed the national elections. A memorandum was signed in May 2010. In the self-government elections of November 2010, PASOK triumphed. All the rest we remember. In a few days, not in a few months' time - in days - you will no longer be able to make a policy by polling, because poverty, unemployment, lack of liquidity, the labour market jungle is not dealt with either by polling or by communication or by scandalism. That is why many suggest to the government to escape before the bounce, because they see and know that you do not have a plan and tools and opinions to keep society up in a second crisis. I was on Saturday morning with my colleague Mr. Kyranakis on a TV panel. There in a serious and strict style he gave a news. He said the famous list of Pechas with media funding, which was to be published last Thursday - then taken last Friday - will be given on Monday. Now it's Tuesday afternoon. What's in that list? Don't you know what you've given and where? Why don't you tell the Greek people where you're giving his money directly? Where's the finally state of Mr. Gerapetititi? Why did some media stop asking and pressing about the subject? Are you cooking? Is that the image of a country in normality? Because in order to choose to humiliate your predicted media executives, we can imagine what this list had, if you gave it to us, when we asked you for it twenty days ago. And I'm making an estimate that the Pecha list is a bigger scandal than the vouchers and the "helicopoly". So you can't do politics with polls. Soon you won't be able to make it in communication, it's not enough. How are you gonna do? With violence and repression, where the right was always fleeing when the people reacted. In fact, I would like to ask you, when thousands of businesses are closed down, when hundreds of thousands of workers are made redundant, when the already pressed middle class is again poor, when the poor are pushed to the margin, to poverty and to hunger, do you think that there will be no social tension, social mobilisation and social protest? Do you think that the people will be poor, and at that time will it fool you to give their money through direct assignments to friends and chosen ones and will not react? I personally do not appreciate that and I want you to know - and I want to tell you from this Chamber and remember it very well - that whatever the polls say, whatever the pages of the Pecha list say, whatever some of the media say, we, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance will be on the side of the social struggles, we will be next to the middle class, we will be next to the poor, we will be next to our weak fellow people, because we want to represent every creative citizen. We want to express the world of creation and production, and with their vote, we will become a majority again. The legislative abominations that you are preparing to curb the demonstrations will itself overthrow the reality. The only thing that will remain in the future is your authoritarianness and domination. You go to legislate like this because you have not learned to disguise the voice of society. You are in the name of the people, but you do not come emotionally and psychologically from the Greek people. The fireplaces, interests and family rule are your references and accountability. Your latest escape will be scandalology, not scandals, but scandalology, because suddenly the Coupling and some media discovered that the "NOVARTIS" case is not only in their opinion construction, but it is also an international scandal. Big? Great. The US State received remuneration from NOVARTIS $340 billion, three hundred ten of them for Greece. Did they take them for the scandal? Did they pay compensation for a craftsmanship? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] May I have a moment, Mr President, and may I finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u144	Continue, Mr. Zachariadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u145	Three hundred ten out of three hundred forty took them for Greece. How does the government intend to move legally? Is it going to the NOVARTIS case, as we went as a country in the ‘SIEMENS’ case? Does anyone take political responsibility for what happened in Greece at the time? Will he finally be apologised? I'm hanging up with this. I would like to remind you that anyone who plays games on the people's back with the crisis - whether in it or in the previous - never wins. Citizens understand and react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr Zachariadis. We've made a little list of 'normonic'. Next speaker, Mr Boutsikakis Christoforos, Piraeus, from New Democracy. Mr. Boutsikaki, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Zachariadis, I have listened with great interest to what you have said. I listened with great interest and the interview yesterday by Mr Constantopoulos, the political father of your political space, let us say, who had exactly the opposite views of what you expressed for your party today. It would also be nice to stop playing the priest over there in SYRIZA, because you really need to understand that this government, the New Democracy Government, has chosen to do all that it says and not sell false fumarily to our fellow citizens and simply mock them, as you do. My Minister, too, long for your celebration. And now in the bill. Our main concern for the smooth transition to the post-communal era is the relaunch of the economy and the creation of new jobs. In the context of a comprehensive recovery plan, we are today enabling a large part of the country's working population to become part of productive activity. One of the biggest problems faced by small businesses, especially at the start of their business, is the difficult access to banking. This financial gap makes it very difficult or even impossible to set up new businesses or the first difficulty to face them will lead to collapse and ultimately to closure. The main thing, however, is that businessmen themselves are forced to seek out a way out of opaque circuits and to fall victim to tachyphics. This time-consuming problem has finally come to an end. It is time to put an end to the illegal lending and exploitation of the troubles of those who dare. To put an end to all these illegal activities that are accompanied by all of them, such as money laundering. We all agree that family, medium-sized and small enterprises are the backbone of the Greek economy. It is the duty of the state, it is the duty of all of us, to support them so that they can function and develop. So today's bill comes to work in support of this effort of the government to help businesses that over the years have probably found closed doors and are struggling to ensure their sustainability. We now allow thousands of our fellow citizens to receive microfinance up to EUR 25 000 outside the banking system and without collateralists required by bank lending. They will be able to obtain a loan from companies that will operate legally, under rules and with increased guarantees provided by their licence and supervision by the Bank of Greece. And we chose the Bank of Greece because it has the infrastructure and the know-how to manage and operate such institutions. Besides, she's supervising the banks too, she's exercising control over money laundering. With the mandatory annual report of the Bank of Greece and the Ministry of Finance to the National Representation here, not only ensure the supervision of these companies, but also legality and transparency. Ladies and gentlemen, the microfinance institution has been in existence for many decades, with the first 'poor banks', the founder of which in 2006 was honoured with Nobel Peace. The growing demand for new alternative forms of financing has globally created the need for a sound institutional framework to facilitate micro-enterprises in access to finance to support vulnerable social groups in order to tackle unemployment and social exclusion. Today it is estimated that over a thousand such businesses around the world and such institutions have served over seventy million borrowers, with some 40 billion dollars. We are now introducing this institution into our country. With this bill we support micro-enterprises, natural persons who wish to set up businesses, natural persons who are engaged in individual activity, those who wish to train to work and, of course, those who belong to vulnerable social groups. At this point I would remind you that the previous government had also made an attempt to prepare a draft law. Of course, this stayed on paper again because it was also in SYRIZA's logic to do what goes down to our head, without even taking into account bank law, the functioning of the economy, not even European reality. It was a draft law which the European Central Bank itself eventually rejected. Fortunately, it put you on the brake, since it would immediately create a problem in lending the banks and their capital adequacy. Did Europe have to do that? Who isn't your target? You wanted to create an even bigger banking problem in the system? What you've gone to make wrong, we're coming today to do it right. We're not burdening the banking system. We give the opportunity to establish new microfinance companies, companies that will be established and operating in a specific context and with strict sanctions in the event of breaches of the terms and the law. The Government shall legislate fully with respect to the European Code of Good Practice for the provision of microcredits. I also consider the provision that microfinance companies are not confined to the provision of money, but also have to provide business education and guidance advisory services. The funding will thus be accompanied by know-how and use of it, so that money can catch a place and produce goodwill and small businesses can grow. With the bill, what we are voting on today, we are practically supporting small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. We are contributing to the recovery of extreme social inequalities. We are helping investment and we are putting another stone in the way of dealing with the unemployment problem. As in the discussions in committee, the bill is accepted by all operators, which is extremely rare when a new institution is introduced, but shows the need for the market to finance outside the banking system. It must be widely accepted by all the political forces, from all the wings of Parliament. With national unity, we must all contribute to the success of this new institution, for the benefit of the economy and work, for the benefit of all citizens. For all these reasons, I urge you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr. Bucikaki. We continue with Mr Nikolaos Manolakos from New Democracy. You have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are no doubt at a difficult time, when the economy is trying to enter a start-up orbit after the dramatic pandemic we have experienced and where its evolution continues to arouse the whole world. After the ten-year crisis and five years of exhaustive taxation, many were the businesses that, although they reached the edge of the cliff, managed and stood upright. The new reality, however, as shaped by the pandemic, has little missed giving these businesses the charismatic shot that would lead them to a definitive lock. In addition to this, young people with ideas and visions are looking daily for ways to join the economic life of the place, but unfortunately they meet closed doors. Our Government has called on these businesses' cry of agony and also the young people and has brought before us a bill that attempts to fill the financial gap that exists in the business business activity, which mainly affects those who are at their beginnings and are excluded from banking lending. The central idea behind this bill is to provide loans of up to EUR 25,000, which will be granted without collateralists and which will constitute an important alternative liquidity source for small businesses, as well as the working capital to carry out business activities by young people. This is a successful recipe that has been applied abroad for years. Of course, it does not need to be an economist to understand the current lack of liquidity on the market because of the two-month lockdown and the new reality that has created the measures against pandemic. Speaking daily with merchants and businessmen with small shops in the wider region of Piraeus and the islands of the Argosaronikos to the islands of Kythera, I understand that it is very serious. I feel their concerns and concerns, which are hampering their development, canceling their plans and filling them with concern for the present and future. Clearly, it was imperative to find alternative and flexible forms of funding and a way out of viability. That's exactly what the bill does. It is a tangible liquidity solution, on which businesses can rely, but also the ambitious young entrepreneurs, when the criteria for lending banks remain strictly, excluding the majority of businesses and young people. They are companies that will lend candidate borrowers from their equity capital, i.e. from private entrepreneurs' money. In this way, clean transactions and of course smaller interest rates will be achieved, putting an end to tug-up, since the providers of these loans will be controlled by the Bank of Greece. In no case, however, are we saying that bank loans will be replaced. On the contrary, they will stand and operate alongside bank lending, helping the economy and the real market. The positive impact of the bill is reflected, moreover, in the fact that all operators are positive and we had a broad consensus. I have listened carefully, of course, to some reservations about the fact that a mechanism needs to be laid down so that the interest rate remains reasonable and that the institution does not fail in practice. I would like to say, however, that this is not the case anywhere. In fact, I believe that if the interest rate is fixed from the outset, then all companies will run to the top of the potential limit set, with results that will not be expected. Clearly, of course, the functioning of these institutions will be monitored by the relevant state bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, with the new proposed framework, small businesses, which are literally narrowing under the weight of the consequences of the pandemic, will be able to take their breath and, at the same time, is also a hope for our young people. For me personally the latter counts more and it is very important: the new generation to stand on its feet and create, because young people are the future and our responsibility is too great. I would also like to point out that the establishment of financial institutions providing financing will also create jobs. This must not go unnoticed. It is a state's obligation at all times to try in this direction. Mr President, in closing and away from micro-party purposes, I call on everyone to vote in favour of this bill to support the backbone of the Greek economy, the small and medium-sized enterprises and the young ones and to give them the breath they need to win against a difficult struggle, which is for the benefit of the entire society to win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr Manolaco. I'm going to go to beautiful Evia - she knows, she's ready - and Mr. Miltiades Hatzigiannis from SYRIZA. So there is the reason for Mr Miltiadis Hadjiyiannis from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, although I would like to sing very well like Hatzigiannis, Hatzigiannakis is my name...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u152	I'm sorry. That's how it's written here. I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u153	Happy birthday too, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u155	Minister, many years to you too! Be well! I would not make any reference to HNVY, but because you mentioned and I am very afraid that until the next elections come in 2023 or when the government decides, all you will have to say is to vote for HNVY, I would remind you that the SYRIZA Government had already voted to reduce HNVIA, which you came with the takeover of your governance and all you have changed was the favorable arrangements for the major property. To be clear, although we have said it too many times, but, as I see it, we have to keep saying it, a property in Peristeri or Euosmos, worth EUR 70,000, keeps the 30% reduction we have voted on and will save around EUR 100 a year. That's what escapes both our law and your own provisions. On the contrary, with your own, a villa of two hundred and fifty square squares in Kaklia that paid ΕΦΙΑ 6,950 euros, with your plan will pay 695 euros less. With 10% it's very simple arithmetic. So is he a winner of the man who dwells in the small neighborhoods, with the small houses, which is the majority of the Greek people with your own provision, or the man who dwells in Akali or in the rich areas? It is therefore clear - because I see you constantly telling us - what exactly the amendment you have made in relation to the provision that we ourselves voted on. And then I remind you that you were telling us that we were making election games and election commitments and that we were putting the country's financial control at risk. Obviously today - and I understand in their speeches the New Democracy colleagues have no anxiety - and we will be voting in favour of the bill. We've said it. It's a bill that we started. Very well you do and continue, because it does not matter in positive bills aimed at strengthening entrepreneurship and the economy itself, but at the bottom of scripture, society, who starts it. It is important to do this and I accept that your Ministry has accepted many of the legislative interventions we have made and many of the additions that we have proposed and other opposition parties - and it is to your credit - as is the entire dialogue that has taken place in one, I repeat, a positive bill, which is obviously aimed at strengthening small and small entrepreneurship. I have some reservations not so much about the bill itself as about how it will be implemented in practice. To be very clear, this institution has been working for many years abroad and has been breathing to small businesses or, above all, to start-ups in which, as you can see, under the conditions of bank lending, a young man cannot have access to the banking system for start-ups, for start-ups, for innovative ideas that are financed on the basis of the institution of microfinances. So abroad, because their economy is structured a little differently from our own, it has a lot more meaning and that is why it has been very successful. I fear that especially in our country - I understand the government's reservations, I understand that it was a difficult part to vote or to put a ceiling cap on the interest rate that would be borne by microfinance - the framework in which companies, which will be created, will be much larger than a small Greek company, will be able to withstand. And I can be clearer. There is no way - because there has been a lot of discussion in the committees - with today's business data, the funds which will come to finance such actions, to finance with smaller amounts of one-digit interest rate. Tell me a start-up operation in Greece which can work and be able to cope with interest rates that are two-digit today after ten years of crisis and the start-ups which have a logic that allows them within a very short period of time - and I am sorry to say that in Greece it is very few examples of start-ups - which have an example of their respective abroad - because they are ideas that are original, which have an innovation, to increase their value very quickly and therefore the working capital, which they take at the start, can actually give them a very large injection and a very great sustainability. Unfortunately, in Greece, we are not seeing this yet. This does not mean that we are zeroing the specific legislative framework that comes to the vote. I am simply pointing out difficulties that will be addressed and because our banking system is not yet safe as in other countries, I am very afraid that we will see high interest rates, we will see guarantees from guarantors that are impossible again for small or very small businesses to access this tool. I'm afraid I'm going to be a master of evil. But we need to be on top of this problem and see how it really is in small or very small enterprises and those who do not have access to the banking system in particular - because they are young people, they are new ideas and we need to strengthen them, and they usually strengthen these systems - they will reach their pockets and not as they have been so far. Because - and I am closing down with this - there have been programmes of subsidised microfinance from the ESRB and from other European programmes. And I'm talking about subsidies and interest rates even zeros. For the small islands there was a programme of up to EUR 30,000 subsidised at a zero rate, and yet this is the situation of the Greek economy that had almost zero absorption! People came to Skyros from the banks to inform that there are zero interest rates subsidised by European co-financed programmes and unfortunately no one bothered to deal with them, no matter how necessary it was, because there is a fear on the market and fear of how they will cope with the obligations in the coming years, especially if we are talking about the high interest rates that we will unfortunately see on the market there being in this context. Thank you. I hope I'm disproved. I hope he'll breathe this bill, and for the rest we'll see about it tomorrow, the other bill, although you put it on us very soon. We haven't had time to process it. We're up late. But all right, we'll do our best.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u156	I'm going to the beautiful Corinth and Mrs. Marilena Soukoulis from New Democracy. Here, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have to vote in favour of a draft law on the establishment of a coherent framework for the granting of microfinances. In other words, we have to talk about a particularly important financing instrument that comes to be added to the financial instruments for strengthening the Greek economy. A tool that comes at a very critical time, where there is an increasing need to support both natural persons and small and micro-enterprises seeking a creative way out of this difficult economic situation brought about by the global pandemic. A tool that, in my personal view, should have been here and incorporated into our legislation for too many years, especially in the years of the exacerbation of the economic crisis. And I say this because it touches the core of a basic problem facing a very large part of Greek society, the exclusion from any source of funding. And we are well aware that combining the lack of wage-earning supply with the parallel lack of financial resources, whether in natural persons or small businesses, is unfortunately a perfect minefield. At the time of the economic crisis, too, it was the perfect minefield that, unfortunately, led to whole social groups, such as women, young people, to a suffocating economic deadlock and therefore to a working margin with the well-known effects on the social cohesion of the country. International experience and scientific research in the microfinance section recognise that this is an important financial instrument that comes to cover gaps and why not and the failures of the financial system, a financial system that refuses to risk the creation of small units or new start-ups, while at the same time it is ready to risk dubious products of which of course expect much - much more and larger margins. The granting of microfinance comes to practically support natural persons and small businesses who are under the radar of this stiff financial system, and which many times - as modern international corporate history proves - proved to be pioneers in their sector by offering the world community and innovative ideas that changed the global economic cycle. However, it is of particular value to say that among these social categories that will benefit most from this bill are women since they account for 80% of the beneficiaries worldwide. And I would urge women to take advantage of the bill - and you will allow me as the only woman from the Peloponnese Region in Parliament - to break an informal labour block that unfortunately still applies today. But where will the success of this bill be judged? Today and last week, and within the committees, many of the risks and opportunities offered by this bill have been heard. I personally believe that there is an article in this bill from which its own effectiveness will be judged. I am referring to Article 16, namely the fact that microfinance institutions should provide business education and guidance services for beneficiaries. I have been working for over twenty years with European programmes and in general with the management of European programmes. The lack of vocational training in specific business areas has prevented and continues to hinder the success of various business operations. At this key point, an efficient and innovative operational philosophy must prevail, both on the part of the institutions and, of course, on the part of the beneficiaries. The first ones should understand that this is not a new financial ‘Eldorado’ area where short-term and opportunistic profit is their strategic objective, but rather that it is a more complex operational function, where the allocation of loans should be accompanied by an appropriate advisory framework for the proper disposal of these allocations. And the beneficiaries should understand that they are not consumer loans, such as those of the fertile valley, but funds for use in the possible technologically possible way to open up their business horizon. ‘win-win’ an active management function for this relationship between institutions and beneficiaries is a decisive guarantee of a long-term success of this tool. Ladies and gentlemen, the government does not hesitate where the Qualified Opposition has hesitated, the Government is not late where the Qualified Opposition has been delayed. When we can help the Greeks and especially the weakest social groups, we are moving quickly and effectively. And why are we doing this? I shall reply and close, Mr President, by paraphrasing the Nobelian of the Mohamed Yuns: this is what we are doing because it is not enough to imagine the world of tomorrow and we must create it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Succuli. Return to Athens and Mr Papachristopoulos Athanasios has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, may I speak from my position?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u160	Sure. If you wish, why not? You have seven minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u161	Thank you. I would like to refer to a call of anxiety by two people who have nothing to do with SYRIZA. One is the president of GSEW, Mr Kavathas, who clearly stated that "access to the banks we do not have". He even used the popular expression that 85% of traders eat 'doors' from the banks. And he invoked the Development Bank, which could play a decisive role in liquidity and financing traders and especially small and medium-sized enterprises. Another factor, also, that is Constantine Michalos, associated with the chambers, pointed out that 43% of the National Bank is public and could play a decisive role as a state bank. The role of the state in these difficult moments of pandemic seems not to have been perceived by a piece - not all - in this Chamber. I would like to remind you here, therefore, that the state, which was so fought by the New Democracy party - we have heard about PPPs, managers, and so on. - He went for a walk in the case of the pandemic. Humb and unpaid doctors, nurses and cleaners kept the system up all over the world! If this has not been understood by some, it is not our fault, it is the reality. I'm telling all this about why? In none of the seven financial instruments proposed by the bill the financial instruments are non-refundable. They're loans from the first to the last. And it is important here to remember that we proposed to the 'Strengthen 2' programme three billion non-refundable advances for business support and about three and a half billion for the financing of medium-sized enterprises and workers, i.e. about six and a half billion, which is non-refundable. It's a huge difference. This is where I want to say something. Because this micro-credit story started around mid 1970 in the slums of Pakistan and Bangladesh, it was a historic moment when the World Bank literally did not just play a decisive role in tackling enormous social inequalities. In the New Democracy programme, there was never a matter of microfinance. We are even delighted, as you are dealing with it, and here is our difference despite having too many objections. I would like to say to you, for example, that you are leaving all those involved in the social and solidarity economy outside. Why is that? The supervisory responsibility is also entirely entrusted to the Bank of Greece in contrast to the European Central Bank, which tells you that this is not right. In addition, microfinance institutions are out of scope for consumer protection. Why is that? Also, the control of the shareholders of these institutions for money laundering is not described. These are important imperfections, differentiations that we would like you to have corrected. Also, the supervisory and sanctions fees and fines imposed by the Bank of Greece in the event of irregularities do not see these things. Most importantly, however, the legal form of microcredit institutions is changed and you leave it outside with this change of local authorities which could set up public limited companies, i.e. the Banking and Loan Fund, chambers, you leave them outside, with a curious culture that cannot be explained. Nevertheless - I would like to focus here - we will not function as you did on the issue of the Treaty of Prespecies and on other things, which you have burned us homes, which you have been telling us traitors, who have sparked a far-right hysteria against people who have not been at all, so that you can come back later and say 'yes, okay, nothing has happened' and just take the elections. No, the good of the country is important. Micro-credits are a story that concerns us in the first place, and this is a sign of writing how this opposition works, we say, yes, it is a positive step. Although it has too many imperfections, we believe it is in the positive direction and it is still up to you to vote to correct some things. I would like to say that, because it is happening to turn around - I imagine many of you are doing this, it is not our privilege - and we are in contact every day with dealers, shops, shops, 35% has already been closed and there is provision that it can reach 60% and 70%. The fireman in the first ten minutes, if he goes, he'll wipe out the fire, if he goes ten hours, he's lost it. It's a cry of agony and it has nothing to do with opposition. Do something now. We left you 37 billion, and we didn't know exactly what you've done with it. We didn't exactly learn and we don't learn every day, you have us completely dark about how you financed the media. I'm not hiding you, it can be extreme expression, we're living a hard mediator dictatorship, but it leaves us indifferent. The country's good for us is above that. You did not let us know what Xeni Demetriou said in the pre-examination committee during six meetings, which had nothing to do with SYRIZA. We never learned from the mid-term dictatorship we are living in today, and I am sorry to say it again, many things, 1,700,000 spent by Mrs Ryku's husband on public, we did not learn about the 2,600,000 who were found to go to Mr. Papastavrous. We don't know the recession goes to 16%. We don't know the public debt hits a quarter. We do not know that unemployment - I say that it is evidence of a catalyst - does not want it - and that is why we have made these proposals, will hit more than 25%. And all this to cover up and change the agenda, bring a private person's tape - and I'm finishing with it - which I'm telling you is the latest news. The expert himself becomes a boomerang for you. I'm only telling you this is last-minute news. You took off this tape after four and a half years. Mr Mioney did not mention it at all when we examined him in the pre-inquiry two and a half months ago. He'll turn you back, boomerang. I'm sorry to be so acidic, but that's a reality. Unfortunately, we do not have the opportunity to speak elsewhere, only within the House have a voice, and that is why we are exhausted the possibilities we have in the rules of parliamentary democracy. I conclude by saying this: in spite of all the polarisation you are causing, we say 'yes' in this bill, because it reminds us of Bangladesh's slums - that is what Greece today reminds us of - the slums of Pakistan, when in 1970 the World Bank took some measures. In your hand is to improve this bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. We're going to Kozani, to Mrs. Paraskevi from New Democracy. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our country has spent the last ten years and experienced a strong economic crisis which seals the health crisis of the last few years. The blow was important and great, because the situation was already assured. Of course, the health crisis, particularly the affected businesses and citizens, has hit them even more. The health crisis has been tackled and we have demonstrated that when there is a plan organized and proper guidance Greeks follow it and can produce a positive result. Apart from the health sector, it has also been taken care of in the area of the economy. In the first few days, the government has not stopped looking in this direction and has organisedly to grant subsidies, to provide financial aid to many sectors, to many sectors, to workers, to professionals, to entrepreneurs, to unemployed people to support the first time. After the end of this great difficult period - with the coronary and the attempt to restore to normality - major problems began to appear, financial problems. The market on all sides stated that there are deadlocks and the solution is financing, loans and assistance in all these sectors. He's still been taken care of. There have been facilities in the tax sector, in the insurance sector, there have been loans through the banks. There are also financial instruments which also provide grants and, of course, many sectors have been facilitated. However, as it seems - and as we have understood with the discussions we have done with the citizens, businessmen in all regions of Greece and have arrived and discussed with the Ministries and the Office of the Prime Minister - there is another need for financial support. I think the relevant Ministry has also dealt with this matter. There was political will and we boldly recommend with this bill another important step towards supporting the economy. It is the loans that can be provided by private companies. There is provision for how these companies will be set up, which will be authorised by the Bank of Greece and will still be controlled throughout the period of operation, so that there are safety rules and rules. Fifteen documents will be deposited in order to be able to be licensed and to be lawful. As a prerequisite, the sum of 250,000, the minimum, which will be deposited with the bank and the largest amount, of course, all of which these companies will provide, will be available up to EUR 25 000 to every natural person, businessman, a professional who wants to make use of it. It is an important chapter, and we must all express our pleasure in this direction, because, unfortunately, there are businesses in need of this start-up, because the economic crisis and loans and debts and adverse situations have led entrepreneurs and professionals in a difficult situation, in conjunction with the coronary period. Where there were no revenues, there is a difficulty in starting up. They have been addressed to the banks, but the banking system has its own rules, which must be strict, with specifications, so that there can also be security in this area. So, then, it takes this step to be able to give this breath of life and to be able to start operations and rescue some of them. Companies that will claim this role will deposit their papers and within four months they can obtain approval. In the first three months they will get the answer if they meet the conditions and in the last ten days of the quarter they will be offered by the Bank of Greece if they lack some information to be added. So, in a quick time, they'll be able to respond. Now for borrowers, for people who will make use of these loans, they are natural persons, they are business, they are vulnerable groups, they are people who need them, and they will also be used for educational reasons, for those who want to obtain a degree, a postgraduate or even for a simple school. It is a great and important chapter, which will give a breath of life, will give a start. And, of course, it is important to make reference to the other possibilities that these companies have, that is, to grant the loan, they will be able to offer their services in the form of suggestions and advice, so that, having knowledge and the anguish of doing well, they will consult in tax, insurance and even in the way in which money is managed. Because we have found that a mismanagement or ignorance or even anguish to deal with difficult situations has led to extreme decisions and catastrophe or even company malfunction. It is a very important and good step and, as will be clear, it will be voted on by many sides, because there have been dialogue, there have been recommendations, there have been a positive recommendation, and many institutions, and it seems that this need for society has arrived in the ears of all of us and we are responding to this desire here. A number of criticisms have been made in general, even more broadly than those who will vote for it, and above all by the Qualified Opposition, which brought to the debate table here in the House, and has been mentioned in difficult situations and in unfavourable conditions for entrepreneurs and professionals. As if a professional could be in this unfavourable situation in a year. It has been a government for many years and a politically negative attitude has led to debts accumulated and to companies that are not entitled to take loans, and perhaps this methodology needs to be used to enable them to take a lifelong breath, to stimulate them to continue to combat unemployment and to have a prospect and hope for the next few days. The steps taken to take care of the economy are not just those. We should, Minister, see too many areas. The economy is the great anguish of our country. We are all present to work in this direction for our country and for the Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u164	Thank you very much, too. Mr. Ioannis Sarakiotis, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u166	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to begin my position with the broader framework within which today's bill comes, describing in a throttle lines, as I collect, through my hires in Fthiotida, the situation today in small and medium-sized business with businesses that are struggling to prove that it is not a zombie, Minister, truly giving a daily, titanic struggle for survival in the post-Koroni era. A struggle that, as shown by all international estimates, will be given in a grim, materialised environment, both in 2020 and 2021, since the predicted rebound is expected not to be characterised by an intensity corresponding to this year's recession. No forecast, despite the initially moved short crisis and rapid return scenarios, does not indicate that the recovery in 2021 will outweigh this year's recession. I am referring in particular to the report of June 'UniCredit', which includes the following forecasts. UniCredit itself includes a recession for our country for 2020 of 16% and growth in the next year 11.8%, that is, 4.2 points. The International Monetary Fund accordingly predicts a 10% recession for the current year and a recovery of 5% in 2021, half of this year's recession. And the OECD forecasts a downturn of 9.8% for 2020, a rebound of 2021 to 2.3% in the double hit scenario, or 8% recession for the current year and 4.5% recovery for 2021. This is a recession that came to our country earlier than in the rest of the world and the European Union, as well as any problems that are entirely related to the choices made by the New Democracy Government. This means that the crisis will leave wounds that Greek society has been trying to heal for several years. SYRIZA, Minister, and in this bill he shows a attitude of responsibility and political maturity, since he has already shown, on the one hand, absolute contact with reality and, on the other, justifies him again. And I'm explaining. When in 2015, the Deputy Prime Minister of SYRIZA Mr Drasakis spoke about micro-credits and how can they become a new useful, innovative tool for the sustainable development of small and medium-sized enterprises, what was the reaction from the leading executives of the New Democracy? Let's see. Adonis Georgiadis: “This is what SYRIZA's most serious one. Imagine what others say." Thanks to Theocharis: "The Europeans have taken control of us in the systems and we will give sea-loans via "Attica" and cooperatives. Several of these were heard and written by top officials of the New Democracy and by systemic means at the time. You see, it needed increased reflexes, political acidity and political insight to understand the real substance and content of the Vice-President's words. But, as in other areas, for example in foreign policy, in national matters, in the management of the pandemic, SYRIZA is taking a stand on responsibility, on social and political issues. And we must do so, since the living economic reality demands the core of those positions and opinions, as already mentioned by the ministers, Drasakis and Mr Tsakalotos, there were and were working on the SYRIZA years ago, positions and opinions that you were swept through. But today, thankfully, you are implementing them. On the other hand, these or other similar proposals that reveal a corresponding political insight have never existed in your own programmes. Your insight, unfortunately, has been exhausted to the unfounded once again promises of the press that with New Democracy in the first year a growth of 4% will be achieved. But as the Deputy Minister of State, Mr. Skylakakis, has admitted, you are experiencing the revenge of Kynes. And we in SYRIZA experience another real vindication of our ideas, I would complement. However, today's debate on the draft law can give rise to the enlargement of a broader debate on the role of the banking system in the country, a system which has been the greatest help of the affected Greek people in the crisis with the three recapitalisations over the previous period, which shows that it is in no way in any way in line with social reality. Besides, I am not told by my compatriots in Fthiotis, Minister, who complain that even viable until recently and healthy businesses do not have access to bank lending or other financial instruments, because, in addition to this, the banks carry out a proper interpretation of the relevant regulations, but the government ministers themselves bear witness to it, such as Mr Georgiadis, where he is trying to draw his ear away from him - to say features - of the banks. Indeed, it is worth wondering, as many colleagues in this Chamber from all political parties are talking about the need to respond to the banking system and support small and medium-sized enterprises and, on the other hand, small and medium-sized enterprises to collect the ongoing provocative unwillingness of the banking system. When you call on the Stepping-up of the House to take responsibility for their workers, with a view to avoiding a new wave of redundancies, such as that of last March, the Government itself must have done these decisive interventions in order to shield the well-being of the labour market, thereby attracting the appropriate ministries so that the labour market and working relations are not dismantled, as is the case today. After all, we are a bank-based country, as the Minister has said, and it is therefore a major issue to start and hold such a debate. Non-compliance with the institutions is a major issue which - if you like - also degrades the validity of the ministers themselves who are proposing the legislation to be adopted, as well as of the House in full, which is also legislation. The financial gap that we all recognise is making micro-credits a vital tool for sustainable development, an institution that must be accompanied from the outset by conditions of successful development, away from practices that have characterised the years before the memoranda, away from opacity of customer relations and logic that will undermine over the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen, we are focusing on SYRIZA, not on translation. And we are fundamentally addressing today's bill, while maintaining the conviction that our programming speech is responding to the critical issues of the time and always on a project that is in the interest of small and medium-sized enterprises, their self-employed and their workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u168	Thank you very much, Mr Sarakiotis. Mr. Xenophing Baraliacos from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u170	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u171	I wish you many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u172	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u173	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days the MPs and officers of the Officerial Representation have shown particular sensitivity to entrepreneurship and are, of course, trying, unsuccessfully, to prove that the government is not doing enough to support small and medium-sized enterprises. After four and a half years of extermination of tax policy towards entrepreneurship, after a number of painful measures, increased bureaucracy and spreading the statisticist ideas of the Left, businessmen and workers today remembered, with the well-known hypocrisy that distinguished them at all levels. For us, ladies and gentlemen, entrepreneurship is not a field of policy. We do not promote opportunistic solutions to join the electorate and after we have taken their vote to implement the hardest anti-business policies. Business is a core of our liberal economic view. For us businessmen produce wealth, create jobs, distribute income, strengthen middle-class and ensure income for the state. It is for this reason that our policy is aimed at removing all the obstacles to fair and complete investment activity. We create liquidity conditions in a healthy banking system and provide additional financial instruments to support even more those affected by the epidemiological crisis, those who are trying to keep their businesses upright and return to profitability and those who are today starting their business dream. And that is exactly what we are doing with this bill. As a man who comes from the business sector, who is aware of the challenges and difficulties of a businessman in implementing his business plan, I have often been faced with an urgent question from many people in the market who are seeking appropriate solutions to dare the step further. The microfinance bill answers the original questions we accept, especially from young people who wish to attempt, to make their own start - up company, implementing their own business plan. It is coming to give solutions to the primary question, the most important and most suspensory factor in the launch of a business, which is not the finding of the initial capital. Good business ideas will remain for ever ideas, card designs locked in a drawer if there is no possibility of easy access to the initial capital required. The provisions on the funding of EUR 25,000 extend the liquidity framework to the business world and enable more businesses, especially small and also natural individuals, to implement their ideas on favourable terms under the firm supervision of the Bank of Greece, without the suffocating framework of the collateral arrangements required in the banking system. This is the way to achieve a dual purpose. On the one hand, the financing of entrepreneurship is facilitated and liquidity is strengthened in the market, on the other hand, there is a security in trade, the production fabric is expanded and the state regulates the necessary, maintaining its genuine endowment. The long-term repayment period, the flexible and effective way of determining interest rates, the possibility of early repayment, the simultaneous provision of consultancy services to entrepreneurs and the integration of the professional farmers into the relevant credits are a safe and adequate guarantee for the creation of a practice which has been widespread, with great success, in fact, for years abroad. At such a critical juncture, at the variance of adjusting our country's production model, we provide equal opportunities, we create a starting point and a favourable starting point for all. We are implementing a liberal policy with a deep social footprint, which does not have the characteristics of a benefit, but rather the prospect of growth through the exploitation of the Greeks' personal capabilities and skills. I would like to congratulate the leadership of the Ministry of Finance, which is dissipating the problems of the real economy, is concerned about the needs of the market and gives immediate and effective solutions, which are both rugged and consistent with our ideas and principles. We continue step by step, even more vigorously, with responsibility and wisdom to unfold our plan and our reform work for Greece tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr. Baraliaco. Mr. Dimitris Kouvelas from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u175	Thank you very much, Mr President, for many years. I wish health and all good to you personally for your nominal holiday.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much. And you wish through my heart.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u177	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago, an extremely important debate was held here in the plenary session on the national economy. I read from the official minutes of the House. The President of the previous government has the floor, Mr. Tsipras: 'We tabled before the European elections - and then there were national elections, we did not vote for it - a micro-credit law through the development bank, so that only with a 'planes', every businessman can put this money at work, take up to EUR 25 000. You, Mr Mitsotakis, whatever you say to us today, are sure that you are confronted with a reality that will become an avalanche every day." Now, if you are concerned about the last report by the former Prime Minister and we are finally being solved by a question, ladies and gentlemen, by SYRIZA, because, as we have seen this year almost government over the year from New Democracy, you have now wanted to do everything, you have planned it, you have all discussed it, you have all decided on it, but you have not been able to make it. You were prevented by the elections last July 2019. As if by magic, for four and a half years what you thought amazingly about the Greek economy, the Greek society, our national issues, you did not have time to implement it, you did not even have time to vote because the elections were in the way. But the elections were decided by you, the early elections, by the SYRIZA government. So, in the end, it was probably your excuse and not an obstacle. It was your excuse, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. From the same debate today, the Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, read from the Minutes of the House again: "Let me begin with the issue of microcredits. Indeed, the Government has received from you a draft law on microcredits. We update it and send it directly to the National Representation. This institution is considered to be very important, without the heavy bureaucratic procedures and, above all, without the guarantees that usually contact with the banking system inevitably entails." Continuing this debate on the same night, when Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis arrived in Parliament, the bill that was discussed last week in the committee responsible was entered in plenary and is being passed today. Why am I saying all this, ladies and gentlemen? Because it is now necessary in this Chamber to speak in terms of political credibility, if we want again to gain citizens' confidence, as a political system, as political parties, as women and men politicians. But this New Democracy government, for a year ago with Prime Minister Mitsotakis, has done nothing but lay strong foundations for political honesty, credibility and determination. The political claws and the giants of the past who have done so badly in our country have no place in Greece today. Away from us, visioning a better future. Of course, I am not talking at all about the period of pandemic and the way our government has dealt with this evil. I am referring only to the level of our election announcements, planning and implementation. Let us come to this draft law. A lot has already been said by colleagues. I now have the pleasure of closing the debate today. I will only focus on the following: this draft law is a follow-up to previous government policies, in order to stimulate our country's productive fabric, to strengthen productivity, with a view to growth and to foster healthy business culture for citizens. So, as things have evolved, it also has an additional objective, which is no other than to curb this recession, which, unfortunately, is before the gates, threatens all the economies of the world and will also, of course, touch the Greek economy. Of course, in the first quarter of 2020, Greece had a recession of only 0.9%, i.e. no 1%, while the Community average was at least four times above, i.e. 3.2%. This demonstrates that to date, or if you want to do so by the beginning of 2020, before the pandemic, the government's economic plan and, in particular, its implementation, the decisions taken and their implementation were in the right direction. The relaunch of the Greek economy, following the unprecedented health crisis, which has hit the whole planet, cannot be done with wishes. It's a big bet. But it wants faith in our powers, of course, it also wants national solidarity. It's an equation for strong lyrics. It has, of course, been shown that the New Democracy Government is capable of solving very difficult puzzles at all levels, in all matters for the benefit of the citizens. So at the moment we are leaving party ideologies, and I am not talking about policies that aim for the best next day for the citizens, we leave party approaches and see how we will immediately enable businesses to reoperate at this time. The need to create new jobs is also a very important objective, of course, the smallest possible reduction in GDP, the least possible recession. This is precisely the objective of this draft law, and, of course, it is at the top of the demand that the aid for small and medium-sized enterprises, those who have already felt the reduction of their tax obligations, have already seen or felt incentives that will boost their efforts, is also the tool that is based on good European practices, to give up to EUR 25 000 for small and medium-sized enterprises. So it is not the elite we have in mind to favour. It is the possibility of equal access to the bank lending of young people we seek with this draft law. Obviously, I invite you all to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, too. Speaker's cycle closed. However, because we need to make a short break to clear the Chamber, I will give the floor to the hasty parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, Christo Boukoro, for two minutes and then take it backwards, as is the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, you can see the sense of humor. Rapidity when it is the order does not exist even when the reason has been given in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u180	How! I could have interrupted and then you could have spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u181	In any case, I understand it as a sense of humor. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u182	No, you're in a hurry. Otherwise, I should have interrupted. But don't thank me, it's okay. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u183	We have witnessed throughout the process an unstable and weak criticism, particularly from the point of view of the Officerate-General, which attempted to touch wider issues and not so much the bill that we are discussing today. I understand the difficulty it has experienced as a result of the current situation when it hears Mr. Friends in the Political Committee to withdraw them to class and tell them that dirty 89 is only in their minds. I understand their difficulty, Mr President, when they hear their top-level and renowned executive, Mr Papadopoulos, saying in an interview that "some SYRIZA officials have not been able to avoid temptation to try to influence justice". And this is a very important statement when it comes from an officer of the Officership. When they listen to their political ancestor, Nikos Konstantopoulos, tell them that what they are trying is an effort to exploit and unselfish politically, I understand, therefore, that they are bleaking some excuses and some arguments about what we see flooding the news of recent times. The weakness in which Qualified Anti-Civilization has arrived lies in their works and their days. And to come to the bill we are discussing, I say I have not heard any criticism. The only criticism was that the New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, lasts the bill for a year in drawers, while at the same time accusing us of not being in our schedule. So, the SYRIZA government that was in its program and kept the bill four and a half years in drawers? What does he have to say? Didn't make it? Was there no need to finance small and micro-enterprises in four and a half years of SYRIZA government? Can you show me one small enterprise that's been borrowed for four and a half years? All that the small and very small businesses suffered during the days of SYRIZA governance was an enduring overtaxation, a wave of seizures that surpassed every record record, and if you want statements of the "whoever can't, shut it down... and doesn't mean that you have a shop... and you're a businessman." That is what was said here, ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber. The hostility of your government policy on small and medium-sized entrepreneurship was unprecedented. You targeted for four and a half years as class enemies the manaves, the groceryboat, the small businessman, the free trader, you gave him the title "the tie movement" that is opposite popular claims. If not all of these make up the Greek people, then who make it up? This is what you have done and come to say today that you agree with the content of the bill and in any case that you will vote on it, overcoming your responsibilities for the long delay, because it is a presumption that from the years of the crisis, and earlier on, the banking system is falling apart in Greece and the need for funding has been to the same extent as the current one. But you are also committing a political slip to attempting here today to say that unemployment will increase, that companies will close down, that we will not achieve the 4% development targets, and I have heard it very much from the last speakers. I mean, you're going to charge the government with the consequences of the pandemic. This first and foremost reveals the hypocritical attitude of SYRIZA, which, to date, has been in agreement with the management of the pandemic at health level, which we all know has economic implications not only in Greece and Europe but throughout the world, moving from micro-political instincts, is now coming to charge the government with the financial implications of the pandemic. We don't renounce our responsibilities. We will face the consequences. The instrument that we are voting on today is the ninth in order to deal with the consequences and, as we did in the pandemic, we will also be able to achieve it in the economy. However, because, as I said at the beginning of my position, in fact, SYRIZA is moving on to various artifacts with weak criticism to escape the difficult position of the revelations of recent times, he is here today to speculate on this mid-term that is absolutely needed to deal with these consequences. This, if you wish, does not show a sincere Census that makes constructive opposition at a difficult time for the country. In words, you're only consensual. You are voting for a bill today, because you once thought about it, you had said it, but it was left with one of your unfulfilled promises. Finally your ideas have not been able to apply them, but you have implemented your delusion with terrible consequences for the country's real economy. And you come to tell us today that they are your ideas and that is why you are voting on them. Your real attitude, however, is against dealing with the problems caused by pandemic, which problems and consequences try to deal with tools like today. Your attitude is revealing, ladies and gentlemen, and it would be good to revise your strategy and do your part to which the people have taken you in the last elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now have a little interruption to clean up the space and take a breath. You've been in the room for so many hours. Mr Arsenis will then speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u185	The reason is the special speaker from Mera25, Mr Arsenis for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Secretary-General, unfortunately, I was unable to answer because the Rules do not provide for what you said after Mr Varoufakis' speech. But really, to think that all red loans were triggered in the six months of the negotiation is a little funny. I think it doesn't have to be an economist to know that. Let me tell you something simple, because you might not have a red loan. The citizens who have a red loan, Mr Secretary, know how their loans have been caused by the poorening of the memoranda, which, of course, continues to date and with what you are signing, which you have undertaken to implement with the primary surpluses for 2021. But where can you be ashamed in this Chamber, when you continue to refuse to set a capped interest rate, while we know that above the bank interest rate of the Bank of Greece is tacosy? And yet you are the ones who legislate today. And I wonder how SYRIZA agrees to vote for this bill. I would really like to hear SYRIZA's answer. In the absence of an interest-rate cap, is that or isn't this a loan-covery bill? And who's voting for it? You're not putting a limit on late payments, anatomy is allowed illegally. All of this is against the law of the courts. An arrears of all charges and default interest shall be allowed. There is no provision, as the case-law of the courts states, for the non-transfer of the contribution to the public service of Law 128/75, but at the same time you are abolishing the obligation for banks to make this contribution to the public budget in respect of municipalities and regions. Really where to be embarrassed in this room? Legislation on tachypsy, Mr Secretary, and we will obviously vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u187	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis, and respect for the time. The reason is the special speaker from the Greek Solution, Mr. Vassiliardos for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Minister, we mentioned four main reasons why we voted against the bill at first. You have corrected one of them the lending of illegal immigrants and partly the other, since if we understood correctly, the state will participate in the supervision of the micro-banks and the Bank of Greece together. Unfortunately, the same did not happen with the maximum loan rate that we asked for. Even worse you left as it is the issue of limiting the leverage of their funds. Strangely put no maximum leverage in tomorrow's bill for investment banks at 150%, while unlimited for small banks. Is that really reasonable? You have not, however, answered many of our questions, such as whether the mobile telephone companies will be authorised as small banks, if P2P platforms are planned, if the contribution of 0.6% of the law 128/75 is, in fact, attributed to the public, where and how it is included in the budget and so on. In addition, I would like to refer to four important articles I have not made. In Article 20, advertising and marketing are reasonable, but who will control it, since no public service is involved, such as consumer protection? The Bank of Greece is probably unable to do so, and its representative asked for the participation of the Ministry of Development's General Secretariat to be consulted. In Article 21, it is good that it is stated that, in the context of the collections, it must be in line with the code of conduct of banks. But is compliance compulsory and what are the penalties for infringements? In Article 22, the Public Investment Programme, we always say, must be used only for investments, like the development bank, for nothing else in any case for social work, as the present, when it is only for vulnerable groups. In Article 32 of the Ministry of Finance, it is a good thing this time that the possibility of partial payment of the traffic charges and the removal of immobilities is being granted. However, we also need to remove the months of Lockdown from the fees, since we have to be fair. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, we will mention in summary what was requested by the borrowers at the hearing of the institutions, which would certainly have to be taken seriously. Firstly, according to businesses, borrowing costs are too high, at least twice as high as the other countries of the European Union, while banks do not finance them or put many obstacles in place to avoid it. The state must, therefore, intervene, which has every right, even though banks have been saved so many times with taxpayers' money. Secondly, they rightly demanded that the interest rate be low, as well as that the total cost of small funds together with the cost of advice should not exceed 40% of the capital. Thirdly, there should be no link to TIERIA, to the extent that it excludes loans, but only to inform the lender. Fourthly, to include the General Secretariat of Consumer Protection, which the private sector in particular has asked for, and does not seem to be accepted by the government, in our view badly. Fifth, raise the limit for leasing at 50,000. Finally, there should be criteria for checking the creditworthiness of debtors. In our view, these are good positions that should be implemented together with the bill, because otherwise entrepreneurship and society will not be helped but will be strangled even further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Synthrakis for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. I'm not actually going into the bill. After all, with three meetings in committee and two days in plenary, I think we, at least as the Communist Party of Greece, have said so and, above all, we say so every day with the workers outside, and in this case with the self-employed, the small traders, traders and crafters. And that's where we'll fight. We are very impressed, however, by this fact. It's a bill that actually lasted almost two weeks. We have tabled very specific proposals, Mr Zabveh, to you, as Minister of Government. It's nothing personal to you but to the government. Avoid answering, even take position. I wonder how you understand the dialogue between whom? Only with any political forces within the walls, i.e. SYRIZA and KINAL? Is that how you understand the dialogue? We have addressed you with very specific proposals, and with regard to the microfinance specific, namely, the proposal, by avoiding the establishment of all these companies in a loan shark role, by taking responsibility for the State, on its own responsibility, to provide these funding targeted to give the hundreds of thousands of self-employed and small entrepreneurs a breath. You didn't say a word, as an unborn. We have made very specific proposals to you, which concern measures which, in fact, can give substantial breath to these workers, such as their reintegration into the EUR 12 000 tax, the abolition of the trade fee, HNPH, the exemption from individual insurance taxes, no forced collection measures, taxes, and the banks of the ECO and they go by saying. Again, the voice of the bosom in the desert! You know, the Communist Party of Greece is always placed politically, Minister, with acid tone, but politically, never on a personal level and without, if you like, making petty personal attacks. But you did not have the political courage you owed, beyond disagreement. The disagreement, of course, is disagreement. We represent two different worlds, but you should have had the political courage from the Step of the House to take a position on the very targeted, realistic and necessary proposals that we have put forward to you. You also refused - refusal is, when you are not in place, that you refuse - to take a position on the amendment we tabled. In other words, a parliamentary party is tabling an amendment to you. You'll probably tell me now. It doesn't make any sense now, at the end of your speech, to place yourself if you are. I mean, we've spent so many days. You have not found a word to say, if you agree with the amendment on the reintroduction of the reduced rate of VAT to the Aegean islands, a constant request that you abolished it by Memorandum Laws here, in Parliament and at the same time there, to SYRIZA and KINAL, they speak of a progressive alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u191	We're not talking...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u192	In any case, something like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u193	Don't mess it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u194	Something like that. You know, these progressive, on progress and maintenance, etc., have become "tire". This is where the mother loses the mother and the child. In any case, it is a bill for which you are converging, with you, with your pleasure. It is everyone's right, but at the same time neither you, nor you, nor SYRIZA, nor KINAL, did you find yourself talking about either the JRC's amendment or the specific proposals that we are making, which means that you are moving on the same axis, on the same route as the New Democracy. So these progressive alliances, progress, etc., go for a walk. I understand the Minister, who has been a banker and Minister now to the Government of New Democracy. Evidently, he's been convened in these spaces. He'll obviously serve the banking system and defend it. Therefore, it is also reasonable to express an intolerance to requests and objectives and needs which have hundreds of thousands of self-employed, small and medium-sized people, etc. After all, you have admitted that it is the soft suburban of the banking system. In other words, at the same time that billions of liquidity are being given to the large, with state guarantees, tax exemptions - we have already talked about them, we have also discussed them at the meetings of the committee and of plenary - you say a soft downwards. So someone realizes what you are finally serving and what specific purpose. What can we do? It's what I told you earlier that we represent two different worlds and streets. You and the bankers and the business groups are with the many. That's what we're doing. We are serving the many, the self-employed, the working class - before all as a party of the working class - and the poor farmers and we will insist on this. Therefore, the gap between us, Minister, is arrogant, as is of course with the other parties that are moving on the same axis and strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr. Synchronous. The reason is the special speaker of the Movement of Change, Mr. Michael Katrinis. Although he can say what he wants in a minute, I'll give him three minutes. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u196	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, we should all agree in this Chamber that the protagonist of the debate and the one who really needs to have a rapid implementation of the micro-credit bill is small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. And they may have forgotten in New Democracy what they said as opposition, that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have been taxed excessively over the past few years and need support. Now that it's a government at entrepreneurship fund II 80% are out, the Guarantee Fund II is excluded. Why? Because they have tax, insurance or banking obligations that come from the past, since the decade of the crisis, since the overtaxation of the previous government. New Democracy was well said as opposition. Now, as government, it leaves them at the mercy of banks, to decide which companies can get a loan from the liquidity instruments. No reference to the advance tax. In particular, we have called for 50% reduction for all businesses, 100% reduction, zero advance for those directly affected. A repayable advance: We are finally asking that the government give at least 1 billion of the cash to support the businesses. Inconsistent with business accounts: all professional bodies are asking for it. We haven't heard anything yet. We could really talk too much about the problems that businesses face, which part of the solution is the bill we are discussing today, whose debate I think has been conducted in a very good climate. There were comments, there were proposals, there were - and I want to acknowledge that - and on behalf of Mr Zavvos initiatives to accept several of the proposals. I think it's a common anxiety, a common component, a common target. However, the government must not, Minister, dismiss the basic principle that at the moment eight out of ten companies are out of liquidity, the tools that have been announced have not reached the real economy, and that is simply an aspirin in a very big problem, which I would like to believe will not lead - after ten years of crisis for two months of market closure - one in three companies to put a backpack in the next period. But, Minister, in order not to abuse the President's kindness, we have also made concrete proposals for pensioners' retroactive tax. We have asked that there be no charge. We have asked that this 20% interest on retroactive taxation be removed. We have explained why we think this tax is unfair. The Minister's here, he told us his reasoning. No change. Secondly, for tourist businesses - and I conclude, Mr President - we have asked for October to be included in the months to which 50% of the annual turnover will be calculated on specific grounds, because that is the market and that is the real conditions. You heard. Unfortunately, you ignored it. I would like to believe that what you are unfortunately not legislating today, on a next initiative, will be brought to bear, because these reflect the needs of the market and I think they really give answers to the problems that, as long as the weather goes, are getting worse and lead to dead ends. So this debate remains, it goes on. Small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is the weakest link in the economic consequences of the coronary crisis. The government must finally understand that, leave the many words and proceed to certain actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr Katrin. And let's go to Mr. Charalambos (Haris) Mamulaki, the Cretan of SYRIZA waiting to talk. Mr. Mamulaki, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u198	Indeed, I waited and listened to silence, Mr President. First of all, allow me to comment briefly both in time and on a position, a remark from my previous colleague and Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, Mr Bukkoro, which I think was, in fact, a placement, a speech of out of place and time. Outside the place on the issue that concerns us not only today but all these two and a half weeks. I will analyse further how thoroughly the effort has been made from all sides, from all sides, to have a bill, if possible responding, reflecting and converging through a serious osmosis of proposals, and actually have an effect on society itself and on small and medium-sized enterprises. And of course what did we hear? I do not hide from you that there has been a smell of naphthalene since yesterday, from the old political system, which actually insists on a logic, a phrase, verbalism that is neither consistent with today nor reflect the needs of society, which we all know is a very critical turning point. Everything is going on, and everything shows that we are very close to a deep recession, almost in the autumn, and here we hear about exchanges or fire - 'Arthral arrows' - which I would describe as - on issues which they are employing yesterday but which do not have the memory they should have. But I do not want to abuse time and analyse and exaggerate to the already tired House any further. That is why there will be answers at the right time. Let's actually go to the bill, Minister. Well, I am glad, first of all, that these chain meetings, of great duration - if I am not mistaken for two and a half weeks - coincided with this bill whose paternity was not at all called into question. It was a covetous thing that, in fact, the arrest started in 2015-2016. The answer, of course, to Mr Bukouros who must now give it a chance to give it is that, of course, it has not been implemented because some have succeeded and put the country in the memoranda.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u199	Who's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u200	So, first, we had to get her out of the memoirs so we could...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u201	Who's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u202	Please, Mr. Bukoro! He didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u203	Did you see a difference in logic? Did you see a difference in politics? Did you see our difference how chaotic it is in terms of perception and culture?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u204	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u205	And some people took it out in August of 2018 and finally we were able to implement this arrest, which was happening. Not only was the bill arrested and matured, but it also came out in public consultation. After all, many of the remarks - and you have done very well, Minister - have included them. These are comments that were before and came from 2019, from our own administration. There are many amendments on the substance, many remarks heterocles, perhaps. I think, however, that the main torso, the main core of the bill, remains unchanged except for some of the minimum exceptions and gives us the guarantees that we can believe that it will also have practical application. Because what you know very well - and we do not tell SYRIZA, but all of Europe says so - is that it is not a matter of legislating. The issue is 'impletion', the question is the application of the law. I believe that with the dilemmas and the immunisation that the financial staff have advanced - I would also like to believe with the remarks and advice, if you wish, of the whole Opposition - I think it is in the right direction. In conclusion, I would like to make a comment on a specific article, which Mr Katrinis has properly exhumed and muddy today, but I should also like to say something about it. I am talking about Article 30, about pensioners, and this famous 20%, which, in fact, is a gangrene and an insurmountable obstacle to them, so that they can cope with it and give one, if you like, help at such a critical time. Timing I think it is as timely as ever and even at the last moment I would like you to see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, too. Mr. Salmas has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u207	I'll start my three-minute position as I started the introduction of the draft law. This draft law has been passed by Parliament's large majority. It is, first, because it was a draft law that kept the state going. A previous opposite political ideology government prepared a draft law and another government, today, brought it to the vote and I believe it will be the law of the state in a few minutes. Secondly, it was a project that threw the great ideological differences and showed that realism dominates. Thirdly, it was a draft law that the whole society wanted. This was expressed through all the bodies who were invited to be heard in committee. Fourthly, it was a civilised dialogue. I would like to thank the SYRIZA and the Change Movement for supporting this draft law by the rapporteurs, but also to thank the other rapporteurs from the other parties, who were placed with proposals that were substantiated even if they did not agree with the draft law. In conclusion, in order to be charming, because this draft law is not available for reaction, it is what we say, 'you have every right to say your opinion, as long as you agree with ours', as a rapporteur said in a respective bill a hundred years ago. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, too. The procedure will be closed by the State Secretary responsible, George Zavvos. I think, Mr. Undersecretary, three minutes is enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u209	Yes, Mr President, and thank you. We are closing this evening, I would say, a fruitful, constructive debate that has started over two weeks ago and lasted for several dozen hours and we have seen that the government has listened with open mind to all parties and bodies, and we have tried to respond, to most of these points of view. I think it showed, above all, that there might also be political and administrative continuity. I would like to thank all the rapporteurs and all the parties for all the views they have put forward here, especially, of course, those who will support the bill. I would also like to thank all those missing heroes of the Ministry, services, the Financial Policy Directorate, our partners, who have worked, to keep in mind, days and months to get to that I would say a happy outcome. Most importantly, however, we have shown that as a National Representation we are capable of forging those shocks and showing that we can listen to society, particularly when there are significant requests such as the request for funding for those who have left behind, vulnerable social groups which, as we said, have now been excluded from the banking system. The Minister for Finance has tabled amendments and made legislative improvements to meet most of the expectations of this House and the social actors. I understand, however, that the parliamentary amendments have not been accepted. By voting today we believe that at this critical juncture there is a prospect of real solutions to difficult problems. The bill is interesting, it is rhetorical, it is innovative, but it is also urgent to implement it because the world is waiting and its success will be judged at least by three elements: Firstly, from the speed and adequacy with which the Bank of Greece will be able to establish the necessary mechanisms and start licensing and supervision with substantial effect. Secondly, we will see what the providers will be coming up for funding appropriations. And the final judge, of course, will be the beneficiary and all those who expect to be able to finance themselves will be able to start a small job, as we have said, is the student, the woman, the startups, the startups and all those who are waiting. I do not think it is an end to this bill. It is a start and a challenge. It is what reminds us that dynamic synergies are needed in a critical period of high social sensitivity, in which more than ever we have to pursue, I will once again say dynamic synergies between the state, the private sector and, above all, society. It is important that we give the necessary breath to the whole world that it expects. For this reason, Mr President, I would like to ask the House to vote in favour of the law and the amendments tabled by the Government in the House, and I would like to thank you all for your full contribution to this law. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. The debate on the articles, and the amendments to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance, is closed: 'The framework for the granting of microfinances, financial sector arrangements and other provisions'. We are entering the vote on the articles, amendments and the entire bill and they will be voted on separately. We would like to point out that the vote includes forty-six articles, four amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest you have to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the whole. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u211	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u212	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u213	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘The framework for the granting of microfinances, financial sector regulations and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u214	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u215	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-30-S1-commons.u216	With the consent of this House at 20.15 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, July 1, 2020 at 9 a.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the supplementary agenda distributed.
