ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The meeting's on. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘State budget for the financial year 2021’. Mr Fotini Pipilis has the floor. Here, Mrs. Pipili, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, any citizen can ask on the street why the State Budget of 2021 is so difficult and unstable, they will answer 'But, of course, because of pandemic'. This very simple to the average citizen is becoming a powerful opposition weapon mainly from SYRIZA, who continues to live in the cage of populism, division, death row and the logic of the square of the indignant, still, of the mangos and the fainting disciples. Since Friday afternoon, their word has been entangled by hostility, maliciousness, personal insults, lies and, above all, distortion. For example, now it's 9.30 ́, and for many of SYRIZA it's 12 o'clock. I, from the Step of the House, will speak to you on the word of the average intelligent and informed citizen, because we are not even the economists here. So you blame us for being neo-liberal - I doubt you know exactly what the term means - that we support local and foreign capital, bad individuals and forget that we have been talking for so many days about the state budget, which we supposedly do not want. It is EUR 67.2 billion all of the state budget, to pay the state all its obligations, pensions, wages, education, health, projects and insurance funds. Our difference, ladies and gentlemen, is that we want this state that costs EUR 67.2 billion to be an efficient, flexible, citizen's friend and not a 'pimpier', which the majority of citizens say, a state that is accessible, as is already the case through digital policy, a state that is basically worthy of the other European countries. That is why we want a pro-investment state, an ecological state, and that is why we are legislating in this direction. It is a state budget - let us not forget - since this year over EUR 100 billion has been'saving' the governance of the 'assets' economy in the Tsipras, Kammenos, Varoufakis. It is the EUR 67.2 billion state that carries - let us also forget - the mortgage on all public property as a result of the SYRIZA catastrophic governance - ANEL for ninety-nine years in the superstate! Come on, we're giving you two, because they've already passed! Now we go to the constant 'copy paste' of a lie for 2020 as a year of remission of Mitsotakis. It bothers you very much - but very much - that in the first half of 2020 we had a positive rate of growth and then a pandemic again we had a better rate of growth than Europe's average and certainly higher than the other southern countries. You are extremely disturbed - but very much - by the fact that, despite the smallest increase in unemployment in EUROSTAT communications, we have been compared with the pandemic. And where you become furious and you cannot admit it with anything is that Greece borrows at zero rates and not as you say in here, from the European Central Bank, but from the confidence of the international market in the Greek Government, to the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. That's all we've done. You left five hundred fifty IF beds proven. We gradually increased them in more than a thousand two hundred spaces and move on to many others. Despite your heartfelt desire to see people die in ranches, even at the peak of the second wave the public health system is enduring and continuously strengthened. Now we are going to the major issue of public education. We have terrible differences between us. We respect your differences, but I attended the speech of Mr.Nicos Philie the day before yesterday, who neither too much nor too much in angeral style gave an image for our country, for Greece, for our public education, which I wonder, since he believes it, because he is still here and has not moved away. So disgraceful? Is it nice to present this picture? What about students teaching at cafeterias told us, because it happened to an old, what to students who get cold and attend lessons from their little cell phone! Just before the school closure you had bombed us that the students were at risk, because there were many - twenty - five in every class - to get sick, while the official health data defied you, because in education there was no problem at all while it was working. He also flew one, that this year's state budget was cut and 20 million euros for universities. At the time I listened to him, I answered and repeat them from here: "You, ladies and gentlemen, with your policies, but also the ideas of all these years, you have been deprived of public education much more money and owe them to the Greek people than you support, from the waste of time for thousands of students whose parents have been paying unspeakably to study. You owe us the damages of public institutions and the teachers, who were paid by the taxpayers, but not only could they not learn a lesson, but you supported them with bricks, which shook them, swayed them, terrified them with the behaviour of ISIS fighters, as they have been doing lately. We will, therefore, strengthen public security in public universities as much as you are presenting and want to support this disgusting image in public universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Ms. Pipili, for keeping time. The reason for Mrs Olympia Tyloridou from SYRIZA is now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u4	Good morning. Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about a budget which comes into an environment where citizens are trying to balance between the horror caused by the pandemic and their need for a better tomorrow, a hope and a better tomorrow that this government cannot satisfy, because it is not interested in society, but in communication, that expensive communication with the money of Greek taxpayers. They resalt the citizens' misinformation to hide the tragedy of three thousand and more dead in the last month and a hundred and more dead every day for many days. For two days now, we have seen the Members of the Co-Population parade from this one to convince us that black is white and they are asking for consensus. We have tabled concrete proposals for all issues, for the health crisis, for its economic and social consequences, for the problem with national issues, for issues in the health sector from the first wave. We have said that we need recruitment of permanent health personnel, reinforcement of their income, reinforcement of primary health care units, increase in health expenditure, free access of all citizens to tests. And this budget comes, does it reduce health expenditure by about EUR 600 million and you want consensus, to agree? Where do you want to agree? In the assumption that you made a mistake in opening tourism, because you had a wrong opinion that, with good weather in the summer, cases would be reduced, in the logic that no single health protocols were needed at the opening, other protocols at the Promagnon, but in Krystalpigi, but in Kakavia, others at the Gardens, but at the airports, others at the ports. The cost is now paid with our dead fellow citizens every day. You want to consent to the crowd that you caused in public transport, the opening of schools on insecure terms, when in the midst of a pandemic you increased the number of students in twenty-seven in class, because it doesn't fit in school! And then why would every day close down departments and schools that had confirmed cases? At the same time as you do not contribute to strengthening the public health system by recruitment, you continue to fill the public with posters, your failed states and failed neo-democratic aristocrats. You call on society to discipline when the Prime Minister himself fails to respect these measures and you want us to move the finger to society from the cyclists of Parnitha. That's where you want a consensus. You want to welcome the fact that you have not basically supported small and medium-sized enterprises, to support in this budget the additional tax on citizens by 3.5 billion, to support your bankruptcy law, which lifts the protection of the first home and from 'We live in the House', we go to 'We lose the house'. We want to support the fact that you left the majority of the workers and the farmers helpless. You were supposed to have had 150 million to support farmers. You have not even been able to give one out of ten to the ovine and caprine animals, for example. Four thousand farmers have not received the 'collective' that would save them. 94% of coastal fishermen with over 13 000 euros have left them out because - he says - at the Ministry of Rural Development you are not giving horizontal support. You're hiring, you're prioritising, you're making targeted reinforcements and you're planning the aid, you're planning the increase in the liquidity of farmers, you're planning the auction of the top-ups that you found ready by the government of SYRIZA, and you're joining the PAA and whoever protests you're telling him to prepare a file and you're going to testify and the months are going through, and the time is going through, and the rural world is hungry. Inadequacy in all areas. Not to mention my region, western Macedonia, where the Prime Minister made an announcement on the knee for violent deprivation and now the government comes and approves a draft clipboard, inadequate, without consultation with society, which leads western Macedonia to desertification, in particular, Kastoria and Grevenas to the disaster. Take it back. Of course we won't. Where else do you want a consensus? On national issues? Should we agree on the red line at six miles of Mr. Gerapetritis or on Mr. Georgiadi's statement that 'you're not bored, brother, 'Oruts Rice' is just spending gasoline'? Is that what you want consensus on? Do you, the Members of the New Democracy, agree with these statements? But you are also rather careless as your Prime Minister, who has gone to the summit with sanctions that bite on Turkey and returned with sanctions against Russia. You've confused the countries!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u5	Please, please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. We are not investing in disaster or failure. Here are our proposals, the proposals of the social partners, the doctors of hospitals, teachers, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, farmers. Listen to the proposals of the district and mayors who came out with your own anointment. The country needs a national plan, or else we go to a humanitarian crisis. The country needs a national plan, because otherwise we are going from the demilitarisation of Turkey to a national defeat. You actually land before it's too late. Take care of the citizens, who just yesterday you discovered that they depend on their wages because you never needed him, because you had it all set. This budget, and I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President, is not interested in the citizens, and that is why we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u7	I would ask all colleagues to keep the working hours. Ms. Pipilis has already set an example, and it has been followed by the above. This is at the expense of the next Members to come. We'll be forced sometime to do it six minutes to get to Tuesday. I would ask you very much to keep it. Mr Dimitris Ciridis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Because so many yelling in the morning, I don't understand. We still haven't started the vigilance in the Full House? You come ready to cry and voice. I know you as noble and decent. You surprised us. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the 2021 budget in a climate of unprecedented crisis and uncertainty internationally. What's the data? There is no doubt that the Greek economy is being tested by a great recession. For a country like Greece, which is highly dependent on tourism and self-help services, this was inevitable. However, Greece has done better than the original forecasts not only in health but also in economic terms. The recession appears to be limited to a one-digit percentage close to the European average. Despite the nonsense of the Anti-Population, and here let me be diligent, and the well-known neoliberal caramel in 2020 was characterised by an unprecedented budget extension of 24 billion, while the 2021 budget provides for new additional costs from the pandemic of 7.5 billion. Thanks to generous government support, we did not have a explosion of unemployment and Greek production was held up. In the meantime, the digital transformation of the economy has accelerated both at the level of governance and telecommunications and at the level of private production. The advent of the vaccine and mass vaccination of the population, along with the unlocking of the additional European assistance from the recovery fund, creates conditions for a return not only to regularity, but to a fragile growth that will put us back into convergence with Europe. Already the Exchange is on the rise and the borrowing rates for the first time in Greek history are or are approaching to become negative. This alone proves the vote of confidence in the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis in contrast to the rsk premium that Greece was obliged to pay because of SYRIZA's constant ambiguity, which others believed, did more to say when it had power. It is essential for the long-term development of a path of convergence with Europe that we realise leadership and society the need for the necessary adaptations to the conditions of growing international competition, but also that the economy after the pandemic will not return to the status quo qua ante, in its pretext. In other words, COVID -19 works as an accelerator of a number of changes in the economy that we should not ignore, but take serious account of, for example, the legislative, gradual shrinking of the retail trade in favour of electronic commerce. So it makes no sense to insist on a fight against retrograde spending resources to maintain a degressive activity instead of using these resources smartly to develop new innovative activities with a future, while protecting those affected by changes. Unfortunately, most opposition parties are looking at yesterday and are unable to formulate any constructive, that is, a concrete proposal to address the challenges of the next day. SYRIZA especially mimics, risks, falsely and contradicts. The examples are many and have already been pointed out. We hear great vacancies about social analgesia, police state, orbanism and, of course, everywhere and always, about neoliberalism. The charges are so inconsistent with the reality that they make fun of the prosecutors and remind the Greek people of the abyss unreliableness and the disguised courage of those who ruled him over the last four years. Our job of responsible politicians is not to avoid the debate on the next day and the big areas that our economy needs to reconverging with Europe. It should be noted that 2020 is where we were in 1981 when we entered the EEC, 60% of German per capita income. While starting from 15% in 1950 and within thirty years we have reached 60% without borrowing and European subsidies since the age of forty years we have been stuck at 60% despite over 500 billion of additional loans and European funds. At the same time, countries that are much poorer, such as Poland, have reached us. None of us in this Chamber, and especially in this Chamber, should compromise, ladies and gentlemen, with a future where Spain will have left us very much behind, the former Eastern Europe, countries like Poland, will have passed over and we will remain compared to the Balkan states of the European Union. It is in other words a national cheque to make our economy attractive to investment in order to create jobs, wealth and growth. And in order to do this we need very specific things that we know, we have been discussing them for years, some of them we have done, but now we all have to implement them. There will be reactions and I am sure that SYRIZA and a large part of the opposition will be drawn up behind the organized interests of the few. But we have a duty to serve the vast majority of the Greek people and especially the new generation that will benefit from growth. There's one more reason for that. Without development, we cannot have the necessary resources to prevent a malicious and aggressive neighbour, such as Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to close down a brief reference to Greek-Turkish women who are an additional acute crisis that we are facing today. I am not going to mention the nonsense of the anti-population before 2015 and what they said about Al-Cissi's Egypt, Israel, the United States, and so on. But in the four years that they ruled by 2019 we allowed Ankara to blackmail Europe through the refugee - immigration, we left the submarines without torpedoes and the air force without mitraz. We had demolished our potential allies in Europe, such as Manfred Wegner, Mark Rute, Sebastian Kurts, and we were late to sign AEZ agreements. Even now the Major Opposition doesn't have a structured view. Does he want the fence in Evros or is he sad enough to reduce by 90% the flow? Does he want the additional equipment of 2 billion, which our budget proposes or considers unnecessary, dangerous and militant, as is written by Dawn? The sight is sad. In opposition, they challenge who will tell the greatest paradoxicalness, indifferent to what is happening on the international roundabout, indisputable and unsuccessful in the face of rapid developments, but also the needs of Greek society and without processed positions and concrete proposals become easily prone to the chips, the make news, the screams - we heard them this morning early - and ultimately irrationalism. The failures of history and politics are investing in the catastrophe and the repetition of the 2012-2015 scenario. For us, the race is not mostly with them. It's with the deadlocks that amnesia and populism accumulated. Our Greek people have chosen to set out their problems and, above all, to develop. We lost the golden four years 2015-2019. Europe developed 10% in total. We're just 2%.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u9	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u10	I shall conclude, Mr President. The stimulus of growth you've forgotten. Now we have the possibility - the international rating agencies say it - that the lenders, the stock exchange, the markets, the institutions, say it is the big investments of PFIZER, the 'MICROSOT', the 'DELOITTE', and that is what our budget is doing - to run forward. I would like to close by thanking all those who are at the forefront of dealing with the pandemic crisis, particularly our health workers, doctors and nurses. May I wish you good holidays, Merry Christmas and the opposition in particular good minds. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u11	The Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Odysseus Constantinople, now has the floor. Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, gentlemen. If the walls of the House had a voice they would have to say too much for all of us. But when you're in such a big crisis, in a global pandemic, it needs responsibility, seriousness, creative proposals, that is what PASOK does. Because we have culture to act in favour of the country, in favour of the interests of the citizens and to put after the party. We know what judgment means. We felt what it was like to be alone in 2009 in a Europe unprepared for some billions, and now, quite rightly, it puts on the market trillions. But that does not mean that no changes should be made. But some consciously have no culture in all this. Colleagues from the Change Movement spoke in detail of their criticism of all these issues. But remember the 2009 crisis, the indignant ones, the Zappeia, the parties' leaders, executives talking and lying in Syntagma Square and telling mercanisers the rest and becoming a government to delight like a gypsy skate next to Merkel. I was thinking in this debate if you remember the armored Mercedes of Venizelos and how we arrived at Mr. Tsipras's house. Life leaves nothing unpunished. The same people fell into the lumba set up for the rest of them. You'll remember they fooled Papandreou for the bike. He was kidnapped, but now that - rightly and well - the Prime Minister has the same hobby they do not speak anywhere. I wonder, colleagues of the SYRIZA, if you can call yourselves progressive when you are told of the children of police officers, anarchists and politicians. I wonder, don't your cops have kids? Aren't they ashamed? This is culture, ladies and gentlemen. I hear you say 'left one', 'neo-liberal'. I want to tell you that the liberal is New Democracy, the left is SYRIZA. Now, let's go on three issues. You will allow me to talk about tourism, the repayable advance and the next day. For me, the repayable advance - which has been very supportive of PASOK and said - is not only the serious support of the businessman, but is also the message that it sends that "tomorrow the state will support you on the basis of your income and legality". This is an example of how the businessman can understand the next day and function accordingly. I'd like to talk about tourism and the next day. There's a big question. Should tourism be opened? Yeah, no second conversation. Were there any mistakes at the land borders? They're done. I want to remind everyone that a million citizens are connected to tourism. I fear, however, that the ball has been lost in tourism policy, ladies and gentlemen. Gentlemen of the government, I don't know if you know what policy you have in tourism. And I explain: on the cruise in 2009, we had five million boardings. In 2020 we have -80% and we go for a million and a half. What does the government come to do again? While the Minister for Island Policy is at the ICU - we wish him passively - he wants to build another committee. At the National Cruise Coordination Committee at the Ministry of Island Policy and has executives from all ministries, the Minister in charge comes after the Ministerial Council and announces - listen! - with a press release on 7-12-2020 'Recommendation of a Cruise Development Council'. To pay more! To have two decision-makers! And you think you have a tourism policy! Of course, we will not make the easy criticism of whether or not tourism should be opened. Critic is, you want to make a gentleman on a board and not bring him over to see how we coordinate to get back two million on the cruise. Is that what you have to answer? No, of course not. What do you want to answer? It's like the question we asked, Mr. Kegeroglu, to SYRIZA about how many people took the poster. He got them to the tartars, but you finished it. That's it! New Coordinating Committee - says - for the board - what can I say to you? - while the Minister's in ITH! Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the next day will be the difficult day, the day when the allowances will be stopped, the day when we will not be able to have this whole process today. There is no debate on this today. Only PASOK is doing it. And what is this conversation? If there's going to be a restarter. If there will be a steep increase in rents and not a sharp stop, if there will be gradual support for insurance contributions. Of course not in the national elections, because you understand that if you move in this direction you understand that all this will go back. Ladies and gentlemen, I see Mr. Pizza here, and I want to tell him this. Mr. Pecha, a lot of people say they're working well. They strike, not for your bill - because they don't know about the bill - but why people can't stand what they see in the morning and in the news. Do you know why? Because this has become tragic: it is not just how politicians are represented, where there is a great dimension, because it has never been done before to ensure that the other parties are not represented. It has been done here: "HAY" has more journalists in the morning than it is in the leaves it sells. We are talking about a journalist from SYRIZA, a journalist who supports the Government of New Democracy and there is no other party. That's never happened before! Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that I believe that 2021 will be the year of Greece and the year of PASOK. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Dimitrios Vartzopoulos will speak from New Democracy and then Mr Athanasios Athanasios Athanasios will speak from SYRIZA. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, Ministers, former ministers, ladies and gentlemen, who would have imagined it when, from this post just a year ago, I said that there is no budget for anyone who can escape President Wilson's well-known dilemma of 'weapons or butter', that reality would disprove me with this appalling force within weeks. All we have to say is health and everything else goes down. The pandemic was swept through - except for our lives - and the budget. Sixty-two are the areas where the Mitsotakis Government intervenes with concrete measures, spending at least 15% of gross national income, i.e. EUR 32 billion, of which EUR 7 billion will be charged for the use of 2021. It is all that can be done to tackle this health crisis, but also, of course, the enormous damage that is being done to the economy. However, the pandemic cannot devour the reformist star and zeal of the government. Even at this juncture we do not increase taxes. We are even moving towards more reductions. We are increasing the reduction in insurance contributions by three units. We are postponing the contribution of solidarity to the private sector until we completely abolish it. We're abolishing HISPIAN on the small islands. We're increasing backwards, trying to give the economy a breath of life. That, too, ladies and gentlemen, which cannot be defeated by pandemic is our determination to increase the country's defensive armour. After a necessary rest due to bankruptcies, the country is moving towards a substantial increase and spending huge sums in the coming years to increase the readiness and modernisation of the military systems of the Navy and the Air Force, so that we can become unparalleled in the region, but also to take one of the first five places in Europe. This means that the paw with its most conquered sword - literally with its sword - can be an important geopolitical factor in the Middle East, but also be a real, credible component, in a strong sense, of Europe's common defence and foreign policy. Ladies and gentlemen, what one should pay attention to at such times of crisis is of course the soft backwardness of policy. And when I say'soft downstream of politics' I mean a coin with two sides, on the one hand the security of citizens and, on the other hand, the protection of most weak ones. Here we have a very useful ally, the European Union and the Recovery and Resistance Fund. Of course we will discuss all the things that have to do with the reorientation of the country's productive tissue thanks to the Recovery Fund when the Pissaridis project comes to Parliament. However, what we need to see from now on is the opportunity for us to alleviate the Public Investment Programme so that we can meet, with the financial area that will be created, standing needs. It is, first of all, the instability of the sense of security for citizens. It is time after many years to help the Greek police, increasing the possibilities to upgrade building infrastructure, personal and operational equipment, the fleet of vehicles. We also give the Ministry of Immigration the opportunity, which is doing a really excellent job, firstly, to increase as much as possible the decent reception structures of refugees and new entrants, also to increase the capacity of closed centres, pre-refugees, so that we can reliably and with dignity deal with the phenomenon of thousands of illegal immigrants accumulated in town centres. Inspiring the sense of security of citizens will be the top priority in 2021. Apart from that, there is also the second side of the soft bow and that is, ladies and gentlemen, social policy. The rapporteur rightly referred to the inequality of income. Look, they say the latest information we have at our disposal: In 2017 the purchasing power of the Greek household was in three quarters of the European average. What does that mean? It means that this anemic income we have in relation to Europe's average, here it comes to expenditure which is incomprehensible to the European instrument of central and northern Europe. I have to say that 7% of the average income of the Greek household goes to private health expenditure, while 1.2% is for Europe, 3.2% for private sources of education services. How much is he out there? Minimal. If someone has a disabled child or helpless old people here, it is known that he should not go to work or pay himself the costs of those looking at them. How much does that cost? Nobody knows. What does that mean here? It means that it is time we changed all this and that we started it this year and there is provision for this here. What's the prediction? Firstly, the creation of a new modern national health system, the creation of a new modern national welfare system, which will provide all the population with all the services they need free of charge, because it will be covered by the insurance fund, as is done throughout central and northern Europe. Secondly, by building a single social service, which will transform the concept of minimum guaranteed income into a guarantee of safe living, which, in addition to minimum liquidity, will ensure pro-active insurance, housing, private services of education, administrative, health and, of course, the connection to the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, 2021 is indeed a sign year, not only because we will emerge from our ashes after this pandemic crisis, but because it is also a year of anniversary that gives us the opportunity, not only to reflect on the continuity of the nation, but to bend on the problems of the country, so as to ensure the future of the ancestors. This is a historic opportunity that starts with this pandemic this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u15	Mr Varzopoulou and I thank you, especially for keeping time. Mr Athanasios Athanasios has the floor, and then Mr Spyros Tsiligiris from New Democracy will be prepared. Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, I feel the need to start with an off-the-spot position. I think the 'United Europe' project is a big deal. I could own the federalists. The last summit, however, proved, in my opinion, that Germany is destroying Europe. Having been chairman of the Committee on Greek-German Friendship, you understand that this position only gives me grief. However, I do not allow myself not to see reality in sight. In 2012, again during the budget debate, in my first speech as a Member of Parliament, I said: "Mrs. Merkel is destroying Europe. Frau Merkel zerstört Europa’. I had said it German if anyone, even the doorman of the German Embassy, could be a bit alarmed. You see, sometimes the delusion is stressful. A few months have not passed, and I regretted this position. Now I'm bringing her back. It's true. Chancellor Merkel not only refuses to defend Europe's values, but is making sure he also finds 'purple' allies in this disaster. In my opinion about the competences of the current Prime Minister - a negative opinion - I have never regretted, I do not think I will regret. How can you regret a Prime Minister who, through his representative, was anticipating the imposition of European sanctions on Turkey, but, ultimately, what he managed was to impose sanctions on Greece? In fact, that's what happened. The mistakes in politics amount to crimes, the founder of Nea Constantine Karamanlis said. In the budget, now, I will try to speak just without oversimplifying. This time, at least this time, there can be no budget that runs hard on reality. There can be scenarios, possible budgets, which are a little closer to what is going to happen in the new year. Serious people who have helped you take power are publicly admitted - they write it themselves - that from about seven hundred thousand small businesses the two will not open again after the lockdown. They work for at least one, two people. In the first half of the year at least 300 000 unemployed will be added. For the six months of January - June 2021, a wild beast, no wild beast was found in Greece. Currently "KATHMERINI": "In mechanical support, eight hundred thousand businesses employing one and a half million people." Currently "AGEY": Kafounis, President of the Athens Commercial Association for the Measures of the Government. "One step before lockdown 40% of enterprises." Of these unemployed, what taxes will you collect? Zero equals zero. But wait for these taxes, you budget these taxes. Let us say the same thing'scientific'. The State Budget Office in Parliament warns: "The most important risk of the budget relates to the restoration of public revenue in 2021, as we stressed..." - adds - "and in our opinion about the draft, it will depend on the economic situation of households and businesses, i.e. on their ability to meet their accumulated obligations." So what do you think? Will they handle it? If you believe it, tell them. If you've listened well, the office is talking about restoring public revenue. However, he no longer has to pay, because he remained very simple, for example, unemployed. Even those economists who have been honored with Nobel Prize, you will not find one who “goes out of the rye fly.” Such you will find among your friends propaganda who embody themselves as communists. Why do you reject the first ones and prefer the second ones? I'm responding surreal. Because you're incapable, but well dressed. You think the good dress covers the inability, such as the image of the motocross in Parnitha covers your graduated merciless mercilessness. Mr Mitsotakis, the European Council yesterday proved to be incapable or unable to defend our fundamental national rights. Today, with this budget, you prove that you are incapable of protecting the work, residence and school of the children of the simple, everyday Greek. Inability needs censorship. We had it yesterday in a historic newspaper. It's not the first time, it's not the only newspaper. I'll come to the best scenario for you and the country, that scenario that he thinks you'll win the first lottery in the political lottery. The period opened before us is divided into two periods which might perhaps be two semesters. It is divided into the pre-vaccination period and after 70% of the population have been vaccinated, the post-vaccine economicy, as Paul Krugman called it. In the first half of the year, unemployment, households' accumulated debts, the impoverishment of the Greeks. If you are not concerned about the risk that the State's Budget Office invoked in this House, if you do not believe me, believe Mr Simitis, your active ally, the one who sends you executives to deplore them. In his article on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan he wrote: "The green transition is used for impressions. He does not respond to the country's main, pressing and unresolved problems and the..." - take note here, Mr. Simitis says them - "... exceptionally negative state of its economy." So, Mr. Simitis, huh? Excellently negative. Yes, sir! He wrote it down. For the second semester there is hope, but, as always, they are right next to the traps. I'll give you the hopes first. In order to do so, I have to go somewhere. The very reasoning she has successfully predicted that recovery from the last major global crisis - mainly American - will be slow, small and tormenting, she herself predicts that it will be much greater and quicker when the economy is under control. In simple terms, what did he brake growth after 2008? The accumulated debts braked her. For America there are no more accumulated debts. There's a lot in Greece. In America there are no longer so many unemployed. There are too many in Greece. So there will be growth. Mr. Krugman writes these. Nobel in Nobel. Just one. Pissaridis, Krugman, I have the right to copy. So do you believe with the addition...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u17	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u18	I didn't hear what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u19	That you like Krugman...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u20	Oh, of course. You know, I love holidays too, Minister, but listen to what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u21	The Rules of Procedure do not provide for holidays. Please continue, Mr. Comrade, and finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u22	Previously, however, Mr. Couridis said twice as much as "anomaly of counter-population" and did not respond. What can anyone say? If that idiot knew he was an idiot, he wouldn't be an idiot. So, in general. Anyway, it's overriding, because I don't want to abuse time...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u23	If you're kind, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u24	Of course, Mr President. I didn't abuse time. I got a second for the vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u25	You've got one more minute, because you've been interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u26	I will close - I choose what I will close - with this: apparently there are people who get value from the wheels and people who value the wheels. Voltaire gave value to the duvets he lived in. Proof of the sale price of his home. I don't want to argue that the one who bought it is trying to get value from these drums. Believe me, I don't want to support this. But this idea is normally passed through the mind of the average rational man. It takes trouble to reject that thought. Nevertheless, Merry Christmas, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u27	Thank you. Be well. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr Tsiligiris has the floor from the New Democracy. Until the Step is ready, let's organize the conversation. After Mr. Tsiligiris, Mr. Giokas will speak from the Communist Party of Greece, then Mr. Stylianidis Euripidis from New Democracy continues, then Mr. Katrugalos will speak to the Minister for Rural Development. From that point on, two ministers won't talk all the time. At least four Members will be intervened and the Minister will speak. Therefore, after Mr. Voridis, Mr. Akypis, Mr. Aylonitis, Mr. Tarantilis, Mr. Thraniotis, and then Mr. Petsas will speak. Here, Mr. Tsiligiris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget in 2021 takes place in an unprecedented climate for the whole of mankind. Societies, health systems, as it is natural, and economies are tested hard by a pandemic that leaves a deep print at all the lengths and backs of the earth and all the manifestations of modern lifestyle. Before I go to the analysis of my budget forecasts, I would like - if I may - to express from the Step of the House my support for the relatives of the victims of the coronary pandemic and, at the same time, to address a great 'thank you' to the health staff of our country for the heroic efforts it is making to keep the health system up and receive the necessary care for the people who are hospitalized. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget finds our country in a liquid environment which has been created because of the most serious health crisis in the past 100 years. Therefore, central objectives of the budget for 2021 cannot be other than overcoming the crisis and the rapid recovery of the Greek economy, so that the next day our country will re-enter a path of economic growth and increased social prosperity. The budget for 2021 is a budget for consistency, continuity, a budget that is realistic and developmental, a budget for reform, a pro-investment and a flexible budget, but, above all, a budget for social justice. The consistency and continuity of the budget are a reflection of the consistency and continuity of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, which continues to implement within the difficult, confederatively economic conditions for which it has committed itself and with which it has succeeded in achieving important investment projects and strengthening the confidence of the markets in our country, as well as reducing the tax burden on households and businesses. The key elements of the 2021 budget are also its developmental and pro-investor character, which are at the core of the policy mix expressed by the present government since the first day in charge of our country's governance. In the 2021 budget, just as was the case in the first budget of the Mitsotakis Government, there is not even an additional tax on households and businesses. On the contrary, tax and insurance reductions are incorporated, as are initiatives to strengthen liquidity in the real economy. Because it is this government that reformed the income tax on natural persons, which increased the tax on every child, who reduced HNVIA, who reduced insurance contributions and suspended VAT on the new building. It is the current government that, through the reduction of the advance payment of income tax for natural and legal persons, through the reduction of the insurance contributions of private employees, through the abolition of the contribution of solidarity in the private sector, through the TPIX, the Guarantee Fund and the repayable advance has supported and will continue to support workers and businesses. With sixty-two key interventions, including the special reserve, the state will make more than EUR 30 billion available to tackle the pandemic crisis, with the aim of maintaining social cohesion, protecting vulnerable and vulnerable and limiting the effects of pandemic on the Greek economy. However, this budget is also a reformist and flexible budget. Despite the adverse circumstances, under no circumstances did the government stop its reform work. Under no circumstances has the present Government allowed the pandemic crisis to derail its reform plan. On the contrary, substantial progress has been made on all fronts, progress recognised by European supervision in the 8th enhanced surveillance report. In addition, it cannot within this climate of uncertainty there is no flexibility and adaptability, which is imposed not only by the pandemic but also by the protracted crisis with the neighbor and migration. Therefore, the strengthening of the Armed Forces and the more efficient treatment of migration flows through the increase of related expenditure are, together with the response of the health crisis, key priorities for 2021. Finally, a central feature of the budget is social justice. Since the outbreak of the pandemic in our country, the government has been next to our vulnerable citizens by extending regular and extraordinary unemployment benefits, by strengthening low wages through special purpose allowances, with the support of the long-term unemployed and the beneficiaries of minimum guaranteed income. This will continue to do so until normality comes into our country and will not leave any of our fellow citizens alone at this difficult time. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 budget reflects the country's collective effort to overcome this unprecedented crisis, a crisis that we will successfully all overcome. No one should, and it's not going to be left alone. The Government of New Democracy, faithful to what has been committed, will continue to build Greece for the future, will continue to gain the trust of Greek citizens, will continue to walk with design, methodicity and hard work, so as to restore the Greek economy to the path of development and society in a virtuous cycle of prosperity for all its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. Mr Ioannis Giokas of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u30	This is not the first time and, of course, it will not be the last time that a government is trying to overthrow the serious issues that arise and which the hard reality of the people is, in this case, the issues posed by the management of the pandemic, the management of the economic crisis, but also the issues raised by the State budget itself in 2021, which also demonstrate the content of this management, which is what they are benefiting from and who are harming. This is what the Government of the New Democracy and the government MPs have been doing all these days, when by cultivating a wide picture of the economic situation - which is also disproved by the international institutions themselves - when, on the basis of the vaccine coming, the pandemic and the economic crisis will be a brief parenthesis that will soon be closed, when again causing a degenerative confrontation for homes, for country and for other things, which is derived from the arrogances of politics. This, of course, does not mean that SYRIZA is lacking in this part of disorientation. What is SYRIZA's pattern, especially these days? The ruthlessness of the government or - the other one that says - unconsciousness, as if government policy were a matter of carelessness, is a matter of ruthless, incompetent, and not a question of conscious political choice, which comes from the very class priorities of the Government of New Democracy. And of course it's not just the New Democracy government. This applies to all governments, social democrats and neoliberals in the European Union, who have consciously sacrificed the needs of the peoples, to defend the needs of the capitalist economy, whether we are talking about Germany or Italy, whether we are talking about Spain in the Sanchez and the Podemos and thousands of victims, whether we are talking about France in Macron, which especially at this time gave the French people, whether we are talking about the governments of the famous Scandinavian model - we have heard years of this famous Scandinavian model - the most cynic ones in the world! - the management of the pandemic. In this respect, therefore, we, Mr Voridis, do not accuse you of lack of empathy. We believe that you are fully aware of your class expedition, that is to say the work you need to take on behalf of the capital, and that is evidenced by the use of pandemic as an opportunity to pass on new measures. It is, of course, demonstrated by the intensity of repression, authoritarianism, which is the natural continuity of this policy. However, the question arises as follows: why do you need this type of confrontation? Because it is very convenient to show your confrontation in terms of morals, in terms of competence and effectiveness, to hide your basic shocks and the same policy you have on top issues. Here too, let us take some examples: economy, recovery fund. You went out and welcomed all the parties, except the JRC. You have welcomed it as a manna from heaven and you have even shown it to be a progressive turn for the European Union, hiding that this admittedly extensive state intervention in the economy is not something unprecedented in history or, much more, it is a prologue turn. It concerns the support of the large groups, particularly those of the so-called green economy, which will be given on very specific and very strict terms, i.e. with new memoranda for the people, no matter what they are called - a Pissaridis report, a green transition, a new social contract, and so on - and no matter how much national solidarity you are invading. And that's what you are the same in national bondage! Another example of international developments: all of you have been giving rise - literally - to the European Union and NATO and others as guarantors of peace and sovereign rights, and when the grand 'licensing' comes from the summits, what do you all say again? 'The European Union has not been able to cope with the circumstances'. A great analysis, a deep analysis of the fact that the European Union has not been able to do so! What, in fact, are the circumstances of the European Union? Aren't they determined in her own interests? Are they not determined by the diverse relations of leading countries, such as Germany - which Mr Athanasios said - but, like Spain in the south, with Turkey, by the pursuit of all of them to hold Turkey back in the Euro-Atlantic camp? And could it be something different from that when we talk about an alliance of capitalist states, such as the European Union? Of course it couldn't be. And we come to the top issue of the period - in which the continuation of your state and your policy appears - and it is no longer in the health sector. And here we cannot represent the innocent dove from New Democracy much more, neither the Change Movement nor SYRIZA. And it's not just your things. It is mainly that in the health sector - all of you again - you have made a flag - what? - the harmonious coexistence of the public and private sectors. And the pandemic came and this account scattered it in the four winds and proved that business activity in the field of health and welfare not only is not beneficial, is equally harmful. It turns out the one with the speculation of the tests. It has been proven by non-compliance with health protocols in critical areas, such as nursing homes, that is to say, the issue of vaccine, which everyone now admits could have been ready for years, since the first krone was introduced, if scientific research was not subject to the profit law. It is also demonstrated by the private sector's attitude, even to this "monkey" task of the government, which supported it by all the other parties, instead of the actual order proposed by the JRC and which also called for health associations, with their integration into state planning and without compensation. They are all what the various ministers called 'Sovietia'. "Sovietia" was said by Mr. Kikilias, Mr. Kontozamanis and so on, thus showing not their ideological superiority, but their weakness in the face of the great sepsis and the great deadlocks and what everyone sees today most clearly, that the current system cannot in the year 2020 – and go to 2021 – protect not even the good of health. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We say that there is a need for the time to have an exclusively public free health system, for prevention, which means all the social conditions that determine public health, that there is primary health care linked to workplaces and structures of education, that research into the cooperation of research centres, universities, hospitals, a state pharmaceutical industry, on the basis of not the profit and parasite of the patent, but of meeting the needs. All this can be done within the framework of scientific central planning, the socialisation of the means of production, socialism and sooner or later the people will understand that this is the way not only of interest, but it can also act on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u31	Thank you too, Mr. Gioka. Mr. Euripidis Stylianides from the New Democracy has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have to vote on a transition budget to a new reality. Greece is facing an unprecedented and multi-level crisis. Once our people got hurt but standing up from the biggest post-war economic crisis, they are already faced with a health crisis that takes pandemic dimensions and, of course, with an escalating national crisis caused by Turkey's arrogant and reviewing policy. However, every crisis, as history teaches us, hides within it and a great opportunity, which we have a duty to see and exploit, because as long as there is hope, politics also makes sense. This opportunity - in my opinion - is to seek national understanding, unity, national and social awakening. The barren little controversy of the past has led nowhere. They're angering the Greeks. The political world as a whole has a unique opportunity to regain citizens' confidence, recording measurable results to give solutions to seasonal and chronic problems, awakening Greek society, restoring national confidence and creating hope for a new start. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis already records the first positive results in this direction. Firstly, the state's regulatory and coordination role in health, education and the economy is restored on the one hand, and, on the other, confidence in market forces. Secondly, health, although the system has reached its limits, it clearly responds better than foreign powerful systems. The doubling of the ICMs, the increase in the admirable medical and nursing staff, infrastructure reinforcement in the social state at an unprecedented speed, meet needs that have been uncovered for years. The private and public synergies achieve remarkable results not only in the creation of modern hospitals, such as that of Komotini by the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation, but also in the preparation of the COVID vaccine -19 in a short time. Because for the first time the state, namely politicians, scientists and the market, have cooperated. What would be achieved over a period of six years is completed in just one year. Thirdly, in education and public administration, digital convergence, teleworking, teleworking, telecommuni­cations and telecommuni­cations have taken spectacular steps in a very short time. The project that we started in 2008 at the Ministry of Education with the 100 thousand free computers for all the students of High School, the "Safe Internet" program, the digital class, the parents' schools against digital illiteracy, the introduction of digital education, if it had not been interrupted by the intermediate governments, Greece would today be very ahead. It is unfair, therefore, that the opposition moves the finger, condemning the current government because in just one year it did not do what it had to complete over the past five years. Under unprecedented difficult circumstances our government supports the market, which is experiencing an incredible test due to forced lockdown. As part of the potential of the real economy, as far as possible, businesses and workers are being supported, jobs are being protected and, above all, there is an organised battle over time to ensure that our forces are sufficient for a dynamic relaunch of the economy. This is a success in ensuring the EUR 32 billion from the new European Development Fund. The Greek Government, without reservations and discounts in our worthy code, predicted the value of human life and public health over profit. The social market economy once again in political history has demonstrated its completeness and supremacy as a system against the stateist ideas of the left and the deadlocked extremist neoliberal economic theories. The international context facilitates Greece to reform its productive model and to redefine its development strategy. In this direction they gain added value, firstly, the development of a national strategy of food self-sufficiency which increases, Mr Minister, the primary sector. Secondly, green development with integration of projects, such as the Jasmou dam in Rhodope. It is about three hundred thousand irrigable acres of the country's third largest productive hub. Thirdly, the smart energy security policy with the TAP and IGB pipelines, the floating gasification platform in Alexandroupolis, the provision of cheap gas in the cities of Thrace, the expansion of wind and solar parks and the exploitation of geothermality. Fourthly, support for industry and trade by paying 12% of the balanced and taxed wage costs to the companies in Eastern Macedonia and Thrace by a law that we voted after ten years of delay and two unconstitutional ministerial decisions of SYRIZA in 2015 and, fifthly, the evolution of Greece into an international education and culture centre by overcoming the idealism of the state monopoly in higher education and strengthening the aesthetic institutions such as the Democritus University. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government shows us that it is moving forward without ideals, turning every crisis into an opportunity. The political crisis has turned it into an unexpectedly successful and practical constitutional review, which, in the hundreds of four of the proposed Parliament's disagreements, made nine broadly accepted constitutional reforms, such as the homosexuals' vote. The economic crisis turns it into an opportunity to reform our productive model with a focus on green growth and digital convergence. The health crisis has evolved in a strengthening of the social state and, finally, the national crisis is exploiting it to separate extreme nationalism and dangerous internationalism from genuine patriotism that awakens our people and our nation, shields the country, strengthens Greece's international alliances and creates the conditions, just as it was in spring in Evros, both in the Aegean and in the Eastern Mediterranean, to claim and achieve our international fairs. If all the political forces work together, complementing and decisively, it is certain that we will succeed in transforming the crisis more easily, we will block politics with a new attitude, we will awaken the whole of our people and our nation, multiplying our international allies and isolating our country's passengers. Every political party and every party should take responsibility for it. The government with this difficult budget points in the direction. The opposition will either follow criticisms, but unitedly or remain established in the ideological past and will be judged not only by the people, but also by history. We in the New Democracy have, however, already decided: we are moving forward and responding to the challenges of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Stylianides. Mr Georgios Katrugalos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. The anti-social budget we are debating is much lower than the circumstances and a mirror of the multiple failures of the government on all fronts, such as the health, economy and national issues. Listening to praise on the part of the Coupling, I feel that many of my colleagues have not read the budget. I have heard, for example, my fellow professor rejoicing because the recession is slowing down to a one-digit percentage, while the budget forecasts themselves speak of a 10.5% recession and the OECD forecasts are even worse. The truth is that, alongside the open graves, the recession is now 'run' with the fourth worst rate in Europe, and the quality elements are even more depressive. We are pre-selected in terms of loss of income after the measures have been taken, which obviously shows their major inadequacy. And because another speaker said that the other southern countries are making it worse, I tell you that in the last quarter, growth in Portugal is running at 13.3%, in Italy with 15.9% and in Spain with 16.7%. And behind the narrow numbers they hide dramas. The mayor of Agia Varvaras even sent a letter of protest to the ministries of Energy and Finance, because the electricity is being cut off to the poor families of his municipality, several of which take food from the masses. Ladies and gentlemen, do you think the children of these families will have the same chances in life and in education as our own children when they should be begging the home of an uncle or an aunt to get their ears out of their televised courses? Your choice is classic. It aims at a complete reorganization of the economy, as it is specified by the pseudo-remembrance of the Pissaridis report, worse than the Memorandum of the Memorandum and with the same neoliberal policy. If it is implemented, it will close, for example, the small and medium-sized enterprises that are today trying to take them for a walk and you are calling them 'jobs'. In eight hundred thousand, their representatives are counted by a million and a half workers, whom you will take the road, to leave the space to the large business groups and the "electors" of a government that is most challengingly attempting to revive the right-wing client state. The budget shall also deprive the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the necessary resources to carry out its national mission. It provides for funds of 7 million less than the expenditure actually incurred last year. There is nothing for the big question of having full health coverage toward the pandemic, to countries outside the European Union, even though we are already mourning a dead man in the foreign authorities. Unfortunately, however, ladies and gentlemen, what I have to say to the foreign policy government goes far beyond what is in the budget. At the recent European Council, Mr Mitsotakis recorded a huge failure and bears most of the responsibility for this. This is not a small step forward, as the government claims, because this is how the European Union works'slowly', but it is a lot of steps back. Not a word of sanctions in this Council, while the Prime Minister has already described as the only option for a similar decision to be made in September. In order to justify the same failure at the next Council in September, in the October Council, he told us that two months were given to Turkey and in December, if it does not comply, we will have sanctions, sanctions, which will be ‘bite’, according to the Government representative. And Turkey has not just complied with, but has been cut off. We had illegal investigations under and out of 12 miles within our continent and NAVTEX that were threatening research and under 6 miles. In order to understand the size of the failure of Mr.Mitsotakis, it is sufficient to compare the conclusions of this Council with the Council conclusions of June 2019, which were the last to represent the country as Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras represented. Not only was the initial and therefore more difficult decision on sanctions taken unanimously in principle - although, at that time, there were opposing interests and even then Germany was hesitant - but, moreover, the European Union - I read it out of the text - "he strongly condemned the continuing illegal activities of Turkey in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Aegean Sea and called on it to stop them immediately". That is, on the one hand, expressly included the Aegean Sea in the condemnation, on the other hand, provided for a sanction if this conduct continued, which is completely absent at the recent Council. He tried in the House yesterday to justify this great failure, saying that we did not veto, because that would be contrary to the interests of Cyprus, for which the conclusions provided for more. But the Government for Cyprus was not sacrificed. For Cyprus, Mr Mitsotakis did not say a single word to the UN General Assembly, claiming the sad first of the only Greek Prime Minister who did not include in the priorities of diplomacy the need to promote the resolution of the Cyprus at the most difficult time since 1974. The truth is that Cyprus, the small Cyprus, achieved some sanctions, while Mr Mitsotakis, without a strategy, often deviating from common foreign policy and from the language of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, did not succeed. The truth is, failure has a name. Failure, defeat, has been signed: Mitsotakis, who failed where Tsipras succeeded. The lack of self-criticism and the puppet communication shallow management of these successive failures, unfortunately, is even worse for 2021 than the tragic 2020. We are prepared as a patriotic force to support every effort to regain foreign policy, but on the condition that there is self-criticism. To convene a Council of Political Heads, so that we can finally have a national strategy for the benefit of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Catrugale. Mr Mavroudis Voridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. In other words, just to clarify the latter, which was a point of criticism on foreign policy, I should like to say to you that we have agreed that Mr Petsas will answer you. I will go to my own more and to the budget that we are discussing now. Ladies and gentlemen, there is always a fundamental concern when I hear SYRIZA's objections. I've thought about it, and I've thought about it before. I never thought, I am a dedicated anti-communist, that methodically I would agree with the approach that the Communist Party of Greece has taken today, as I heard Mr Gioka. In fact, there is a shift in the debate from an objective, rational criticism that could theoretically exist - and that is where everyone would present their positions - into a field of subjectivity. This word that has been heard so many times - what it is called - as if this whole matter is empathy, and it is not about discussing what has happened and what has not been done or what has been done, but about what has been done - you will allow me to tell you - in relation to major regional issues, which have their value, but cannot be a centre of politics. Also, another reflection is whether it is worth answering falsehood and inaccuracy. How much should we do that? I have heard from a previous colleague that 94% of farmers have taken nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u37	Fishermen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u38	That's even worse. You're making it worse. One hundred and forty - six thousand are only the olive growers, who received aid for a total of producers making UFO declarations of six hundred thousand. Only them. I now leave what the fishermen have taken, what the ovine and caprine farmers have taken, what the spinach producers have taken. I'm leaving all this. I just said a number. I heard: 'The coastal fishermen have taken nothing'. What can I say? Do you have any eyes on what's going on? They have taken de minimis thirteen and a half thousand fishermen, part of COVID measures -19. Can't you hear what's going on around here - around? Are you in another world? It is obvious that falsehood and inaccuracy are so obvious that it makes politics a waste of money. Once with Mr Tsakalotos we disagreed, we still disagree, but with an elementary meaning. These are meaningless. These are other than others. So the question is whether there will be criticism at some point, this criticism you want to make, with an elementary reality. They come and say that we have given no aid to producers. Of course, 150 million have been committed. Of course, out of the 150 million committed to producer aid, 100 have been used up. These added the 126 of the olive-growing measure from the Rural Development Programme - we went to 226- and added the 70 million with which we have strengthened the ELGA in order to pay 85 and 90 million allowances already paid for the 'January' only. And we have them underneath saying "You have given nothing". And the producers hear it. The farmers hear that. And you're going to represent under these conditions productive classes when you say things that are in obvious mismatch? And I heard: But they stayed out of ovine and caprine support some. Some of them stayed out. Yes, sir. After applying the criterion you have also applied to ovine and caprine animals. Same criterion. The tied, which obviously leaves some outside. They've done it last year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u39	It was a mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u40	Was it wrong then? I don't know. Did we say follow you on one thing and that came out wrong? I say it wasn't a mistake. It has a very specific logic. I'd love to explain it. I say, however, that it is important that you begin to say things specifically and together. What happened, ladies and gentlemen, in 2020? It's what we all understand. It became the pandemic. And you've got a second huge embarrassment, and you're right to it from the left. Why? Because the pandemic actually did what? It has led us to an increased regulatory field. We are doing things that, under normal conditions, according to our own perceptions of the functioning of the economy, we would not have done or taken all these restrictions, obviously receiving them to deal with the pandemic and not, of course, pursue a state aid policy - because we are pursuing this policy - in order to deal with the consequences of the pandemic. You have now remained here in an ideological field, without knowing what must be done. You try to make a strategic difference and because the strategic difference does not come out, you adopt its logic by two. When we came here to discuss agricultural aid, we said we would put 150 million. They called us underneath, give us 300. Now that we've given you 300, you come and you tell us to give 600. We are going and making the aid with 1 billion additional to the operation of the ESS. You say to us 'Give 2 billion'. We hire seven thousand sanitaries. You're telling us to hire fourteen thousand. So, in fact, he's his opposition by two. It is a quantitative opposition, which has no quality characteristics and at the same time has no ballot. Why should I ask you 'why should we put another 300 when the aim is - I am talking about rural development - to support the sectors?' The answer is "Let's put it in, so we can put it in." You don't know where they should go. You don't know if they need to. You don't know, if there is a need for this kind of funding, because there is such a damage. You haven't bothered to study anything. You come in and you're in his policy for two. But I come to say what we did. Because when the pandemic started, we had to deal with specific things in rural development. The first and main thing is that we had to ensure food adequacy. They were closing the border. Ensured with the ‘green strips’. We have given a regime of medicines to food in order to facilitate their movement. It worked and it worked. The second thing we had to do is to ensure that there is no problem of production. Why was there such a danger? There was such a risk, because they closed the border and we had no staff movements. We didn't have land labor movements. So, there was a risk of growing. What did we do about it? Five things we did about it, not one. We have created a new whole regime for the relocation of workers. It worked and thus ensured the cultivation continuity. Secondly, we have given something that is important, very important and I hope it will work in the future, because so far it has not been exploited. We did the unemployment benefit in fact a work allowance for the land workers. Anyone who worked in agricultural work and was unemployed also continues to receive his unemployment benefit and salary from his work in agricultural work. Thirdly, we enlarged and maintained the permits of land workers, which already existed. Fourthly, we have enabled the retired farmer to do work without being illegally employed. So, from this grid of provisions, we have ensured productive continuity and minimal disturbance in the issue of cultivation operations. Also very important is that it began to appear both internally and abroad - abroad it also took legal status - to place specific interests, particularly business in the food sector, to impose restrictions on the movement of products invoking the coronary. This would create a major disturbance in the food market, in their production, as these products are actually used to process. It was done by a country. I made an intervention right away. The European Commission has intervened. The Presidential Decree they had issued lasted two days. On two days, they withdrew it. So there were such disturbances, where we had to ensure the free movement of goods. Is there good news in this difficulty? It's time to abandon a bourgeois myth. Who's the urban legend? It is "Greece does not produce anything. We import everything and produce nothing." It is EUR 2.6 billion in 2009, the balance of trade in agricultural products, a trade deficit in imports - exports. It is EUR 2.6 billion in the 2009 deficit. It closed with 600m euros deficit in 2019. In other words, within a decade we have covered a huge opening. In September 2020 we are EUR 227 million surplus.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u41	For exports or imports?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u42	We're surpluses. We're talking about balance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u43	Yeah, but what?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u44	Our exports. Over the first ten months of this year, exports increased 17.6% at the value level of the fruit and vegetable sector in particular. We will close this year with an estimate of a historical record of 14% increase in value and 4% to 6% in tone. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Do I have some time, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u45	Yes, you do, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u46	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u47	After all, all the Members of Parliament have violated him. By analogy, you can reach twelve of the ten minutes you have, simply wisely.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u48	Were there any disturbances despite these good performances? Sure. Why? Because with the closure of the focus, on the one hand we discovered in the Krone period - take note - of the enormous value of the primary sector. We have discovered that we really cannot rely on tourism alone. We discovered all this. We discovered his dynamism, too, yes. Be careful, however, on the other hand, we have actually returned to some basic and fundamental values. We can live without buying clothes for a certain period of time. We can live without buying books. In my opinion, it's a great good book. We can, however, live a time without them, but we cannot live without food. So we're back to fundamentals. However, the closure of the focus, in fact, has affected consumer habits. The catch is not used to eating it so much at home. We eat them more at the taverns and restaurants. We do not drink wine so much at home in Greece and in the Mediterranean countries. Other people in the North drink it, but not so much here. We drink it more outside. It's part of our fun. So that's what was affected. And we supported the coastal fishing, the middle fishing, the flower producers, the farmers of popular markets, sheep and goat farmers, asparagus, greenhouses in Crete, early watermelons, spring potatoes, Kalamas olives. We have therefore supported every sector that has been damaged. We will continue to support every sector that suffers damage as long as the crisis is extended. We are currently considering measures to support pig farming and poultry farming. There's been a disturbance in the mandarins and oranges now, these months. We're preparing the summer potatoes, the figs. So we have an integrated plan, but - be careful - not what you tell us. What are you telling us? You say to us: "Do a horizontal policy. Give everyone a chance. And to those who have gone well and to those who have no harm, to go and give." Oh, no! Where there's a problem. And we supported it as a whole. So what do we have in front of us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u49	To conclude, Minister, because the supreme analogy has come to an end.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u50	The ratio's over. Good. I will conclude by reminding only the institutional interventions that we have done for our producers: the reduction of income tax, the reduction of HISPI, the reduction of the taxation of cotton producers. In the insurance system, we abolished what the Katrugalou law required and brought a fair and reasonable insurance system. Another intervention is the criminalisation of the PDO infringement, the suspension of the trade fee and, of course, its inclusion in the repayable advance. That is why our producers see what you say and it seems like you are not close to us, because they see that the government's policy in the primary sector is showing it over time as the most pro-agricultural government the place has ever known.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, can I have the floor for half a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u53	No, you can't. There is your parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u54	Something I said was devastated.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u55	There's no personal. Please. Mr Dionysios Akuppis from the New Democracy has the floor and Mr Alexandros Aylonite will then be prepared by SYRIZA. I would ask all Members, as far as possible, to keep the time, because the Members who are in the last few cycles will be forced to have six minutes and that is not fair. Here you go, Mr. Akuppi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating these days the 2021 budget, which has actually come down under difficult and exceptional uncertain conditions, given the pandemic which has been hitting the whole planet in recent months. However, despite the difficulties, the New Democracy Government remains faithful to its election commitments and brings a budget to the vote with a strong growth, reformist and above all social signal. It is also characteristic that the whole of Greek society, our partners, rating agencies and markets recognise that the Greek Government has formulated and implemented a set of reforms aimed at strengthening workers and businesses, attracting significant investments, increasing jobs, further upgrading the Greek economy by the rating houses and reducing the cost of lending the country to historically low levels. Do you really have anything corresponding to presenting in the four and a half years that you ruled? Ladies and gentlemen, from July 2019 until today, the New Democracy Government has successfully faced a series of unprecedented crises. At the same time, however, we managed to gain credibility and trust. We have managed to change our country internationally. This is what we will continue to do, by investing in development, by implementing measures aimed at overcoming the crisis, which set the foundations, initially, for a rapid recovery, for high, intelligent and inclusive economic growth. The government has already activated measures totalling EUR 31.5 billion to support businesses, workers, professionals, unemployed and those affected by the consequences of the pandemic. In particular, in my region of Zakynthos, they have been reasonably given from the repayable advances 1 to 4,86,168,000 euros to four thousand forty-one businesses. In other words, each of these undertakings received an average of EUR 21,323. In addition, eighty-eight companies in Zakynthos received from TEPIX II 34,447,331 euros, while the suspensions of the «FYROM» programme and of the aids to tourism were still granted around 16 million euros. At the same time, the special-purpose compensation for Zakynthos alone amounted to approximately EUR 4.5 million. Total EUR 140 million. What are you talking about? I'll tell you what's going on with you. The gar of sorrow gives birth to insanity! And since we mentioned Zakynthos and you've been crying over the last few days about health and intensive care units, I would like to ask you why for four and a half years you haven't opened the five bed intensive care unit in Zakynthos. Here are reports that you tried on 14-2-2016 to launch the intensive care unit, the ICU, with recruitments that you were supposed to do, three doctors and eight nurses. However, they never found a target and you returned on January 16th 2019 to have the ICU closed and to have reports that the patient ended up after ten days of waiting for bed in ICU. It mentions the report that a patient remained on the Pathological Clinic of the Zakynthos Hospital for about ten days, waiting to be transferred to an intensive treatment facility. Eventually, he ended up without finding a bed of meth. And it says below that there were three intubated patients in pathological, that they were able to disperse one at the time. The other died waiting for an intensive bed in Zakynthos. The third and he succumbed because an intensive treatment facility was not found. And then, of course, what the President of the WTO is telling you is satisfied today - and he said there is a waiting list for the EMCDDA with forty-five permeated patients who need an intensive treatment unit. That's what you left, that's what you handed over to us, that's what you did, and we opened up the intensive care unit within four months. Don't run and say we got staff from the subsidiary. Without personnel from the subsidiary, the intensive care unit in Zakynthos was opened, because we were willing to do so, and you proved to be unwilling to do so. At this point, we must stress the clear choice of the government to continue, even in the midst of a pandemic, its interventions for the tax relief of citizens. The reduction in the tax rate for enterprises, the reduction in the import rate for natural persons, the increase in the tax rate for each child and the reduction in the tax advance for enterprises within 2020 are only some of the initiatives of that government. In addition, the 2021 budget has included significant contributions and reductions in tax and insurance charges, such as the abolition of the solidarity levy for private sector employees and farmers, the reduction of the insurance contributions of private sector employees and other important interventions aimed at protecting and strengthening those who really need it. In the face of all this, demagogic and uniquely based on the small-party interests, you are being criticised for the criticism, seeking to create an imaginary enemy, who allegedly supervises the interests of the Greek people. You blame the government for constantly changing predictions in a crisis dynamically in a landscape of unprecedented uncertainty. We'd say you're out of place and time. You have not yet realised that in recent months all mankind has been experiencing a crisis, the conditions and the data of which are constantly changing. I don't know if you know anything that we and the rest of the world don't know. But what I know perfectly, both me and the entire Greek society, what history has recorded, is that your stature is not enough to stand against any crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, it is regrettable that we are following the Civic Opposition to perpetuate the conflict by investing in the disaster. It is regrettable that you are being criticised, without any substantial solutions being put forward. It is sad to see you standing, I would say, as a vow, waiting for government policy to fail in order to regain political audience. But put things in place. You cannot speak when, as a government, you have made the world's originality move into over-taxation in a period of recession. And you must remember that you have brought to the Greek people broken memoirs and development, and instead, you have broken the middle class, you have levelled the optimism of our citizens, and you have further turned our children into immigration. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u57	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Alexandros Aylonitis from SYRIZA has the floor and Mr Christos Tarantilis is prepared by New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin with something that you have not given my colleague, Mrs Tyloridou Olympia, the opportunity to tell Mr Vorides. Mr Voridis, you have been precise here: 94% of coastal fishermen are out of aid. It was excluded from the fourteen thousand eighteen fishing vessels, thirteen thousand two hundred thirteen, because of no satellite tracking, as they are under twelve metres. It has been informed and we have addressed the Prime Minister himself. In Corfu 85% of the oil producers are out of aid. You know that. We have asked you a question. I hope I will take this away from the time of my speech. Will an objective and obsessed observer of this budget debate remain sober throughout the debate or will he have to take sedatives? I'm addressing all of us. But seriously, have you walked out, in society or Lockdown made you actually have a massive impact and exchange emails, sms and "like" on Facebook? Have you come out? Because Mr. Voridis accused us of living in a glass. Have you gone to see how much our society hurts, how much is our society bent and you are talking today? Ladies and gentlemen, let me start with the first topical issue, in my opinion, very quickly. Was there a reason Mr. Mitsotakis went to the summit? Tell me honestly: is there a reason he went? Explain him! The late Mr. Courides, who is morning, noon and night in the media, what does he have to say? He didn't say anything today. He told us twice that we were talking nonsense. That's a political argument! I'm waiting for him this afternoon to see what Mr. Courides will say to the media. Have you seen Mr. Erdogan's look after the summit, Mr. Courides? Did you see? We laughed at the Europeans, and Turkey will continue to sullaat in the usual way in the Aegean and the Mediterranean. Let's see more of your other hits. You've already failed the management of the pandemic. But are you happy when you see yourself in the mirror, which, when the big evil happened in Matty, you danced like the Indians around the district manager, Ms. Durus? Do you remember that? You don't remember them. And today more than three thousand and over the last three thousand months, one and a half months, and you don't get embarrassed and continue to say the same things, that nobody is to blame except for the discomfort of the children. I'll tell you later. Really, what about the three thousand dead and the percentage dead we have in relation to the other countries of the European Union? You failed the economy as well. The country has the fourth worst performance in the recession. Your government is purely idealistic, because I hear you constantly say that you are not ideological. You're supporting the interests of the great. For example, did you support the National Health System? Are you serious about supporting it? Where do we live? And you say, you're mocking us, that we welcome the numbers of deaths that all of us in here are mourning the whole society. Isn't that an insult to each of us? And you're talking about us? The members of the government suffer from a lack of empathy. Mr Vorides said not to use the word 'consciousness'. I will, however, tell him what exactly the word 'conscious' means. Alexis Tsipras says it many times. Awareness is the will, the desire to get into the other's place - that is, society - and to understand what suffering is going on, what is going on. Let's see, in other words, her problems with her eyes, not with the eyes of the Great Maximus. To come to her place, to see her feelings, her "belief", her experiences, her hopes. Tell me, is your ungrateful Prime Minister conscious? I will remind you of three facts and question them. On 17-3-2020 it says self-determination: 'The relentless is irresponsible'. On 22-10-2020, he says: "In times of relentlessness we become more vulnerable to the virus." Is our Prime Minister aware when on 23-10-2020 he says "the spread comes from the ruthlessness of young people" and "o of the miracle on 7-12-2020, in Parnitha's well-known cycling, does it say "I was disturbed that a moment of merciless" was swelled? So this Prime Minister is empathetic and you are empathetic to him? And the world, which has so many dead, is conscious? But the media show Alexis Tsipras' house. Is that the policy under such circumstances? Let me tell you about tourism, which is my subject, along with Katerina Notopoulou. I told you last night. From 89 million to 52. A 35% reduction when we have to deal with it - from one line all the countries of tourist destination - competition that will reach the limits of the war and you are cutting off our economy's'motor' of 35%. And you say we vote on this fake budget, the one that has zero everywhere, but an increase in the costs for the state at the end. We must vote for him so that we are aware of the duty that we as parliamentarians of this devastated Greek people are under these circumstances. No, I could say too much about tourism. I could stress the need that we should draw up new studies so that we can face up to this orchid that comes in the summer, so that we can really give hope to thousands of people. Six hundred thousand people are working on tourism and food. No, this budget here with nothing I will vote for and of course my party will not vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u59	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Christos Tarantilis has the floor and then Mr Manolis Thrafaniotis will be prepared by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a difficult puzzle has to be resolved by the government in its attempt to shape the budget for the year 2021. It is a budget objectively faced with the inherent uncertainty that exists at health level, which brings the economy together inevitably and with the country's financial indicators and objectives. Today, taking into account the second wave of pandemic, the unfavourable scenario envisaged by the draft budget submitted in October is being implemented. However, the budget proposal brought about by the New Democracy Government is both realism and dynamism. The main idea behind the proposal is that the speed of economic growth through support for employment and business is of primary importance so that the return to a positive financial figure - as a result of it being rapid and dynamic, In this context, this year's budget focuses primarily on addressing the effects of the health crisis by strengthening workers and businesses in the areas affected, focusing on a significant reduction in the insurance contributions of private sector employees to three percentage points and suspending the payment of the special solidarity contribution to private sector workers for the year 2021. It is noted that only the total amount of measures to address the financial impact of the pandemic will reach a total of EUR 31,4 billion, of which EUR 23,9 is for 2020 and the remaining EUR 7,5 billion for 2021. The government's provision for maintaining a special reserve of EUR 3 billion is also important, which will only be used if necessary to address any additional economic consequences that may arise from the pandemic next year. Ladies and gentlemen, it is particularly important that the European Union's institutions have this time stood up to the circumstances, taking timely measures to support the economies of the euro area. Significantly, the activation of the general escape clause for 2020 and 2021, which allows for the suspension of the European Union's financial rules, in order to obviously respond to pandemic, is one of these measures and is very useful, because it provides budgetary flexibility to this year's budget. At this point I would like to stress the importance that the government attaches to the use of European funds by the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, which reach 32 billion euros for our country. The Recovery and Resilience Fund is not only a very basic factor that the Government has taken into account in determining the development assessment next year. It really is a historic opportunity for Greece, for Greece, which our Government is going to use to the fullest extent, in order to achieve full integration of the economy into a path of permanent and dynamic growth. Already the strategic directions of the National Recovery Plan have been defined, giving a comprehensive framework of actions to develop and focus on, among other things, green development, digital transformation, increased jobs, modernising public administration, strengthening the efficiency and quality of the health system, promoting research and technology, improving competitiveness. The government's main priority is to increase the costs of armaments systems in order to strengthen the country's Armed Forces, to support vulnerable social groups, to increase costs for more efficiently dealing with migration flows, to support the education and implementation of the Debt Regulatory Code. Ladies and gentlemen, it is fair to recognise that this year the government has taken brave measures to normalise the effects of the crisis, strengthen the National Health System, support employment and vulnerable borrowers, strengthen the affected natural and legal persons. As Mr Diocritos had quite wisely said, 'I see good things, and in time and expense', that is, sadness is certainly beneficial, but at the right time, expenditure is also time. That is why the measures taken by our government will help to bring about a quicker recovery of businesses, the economy, which is, moreover, the main objective of this year's budget. At the same time as meeting the exceptional needs of the previous period, the government has made other vital contributions to society and the economy, which it had planned, such as, for example, providing financial incentives for reducing the birth rate, reducing the income tax for legal persons, suspending VAT on new buildings and reforming the income tax on natural persons, among others. To sum up, the government's actions to deal with the crisis so far, its reform work which, despite the severe health crisis, continues to be carried out inconsistently, the absorption of the European funds of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, our country's trust in international markets can make it possible to restore the country to a path of development. It is no coincidence that some weeks ago in the middle of unprecedented global crisis and high uncertainty, our country was upgraded by the international credit rating agency "MODY ́S". Ladies and gentlemen, we are working hard even in the most difficult conditions for the country to return to the pace of progress. Greece won't stay behind. Greece will move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u61	Thank you too, Mr Taradili, especially for keeping time. Please now, Mr. Emmanuel Thraniotis from SYRIZA to climb the Step. Then the Minister, Mr. Stelios Petsas, will be prepared. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. There is no doubt that the global community and our country are experiencing unprecedented situations, situations that change data, affect and will affect not only today's generations but also the next, with uncertainty, fear and anxiety nurture, with a strong concern for health, work and the future. Workers and, above all, young people, small and medium-sized enterprises, farmers and pensioners, in addition to uncertainty and fear, also ask for torture. They wonder what's going on and when the first period went well, now it's over? Could we avoid or limit the impact of the epidemic? The answer is simple. In the first phase thanks to early measures and with the support of all the political forces, the country went very well because we reacted correctly and we credited it to the government, despite our individual disagreements. How, though, have we come from credit in the first period to today's nightmare? Because when we have, unfortunately, more than a hundred dead a month, there is no doubt that this is a tragedy. So what was it? What went wrong? It is quite simply that the government has failed to manage the pandemic in the second phase, despite the warnings of scientists, former ministers of health of Blonde and Polakis, a combination of counter-population warnings about the upcoming wave and insisting on immediate preventive measures. What happened? Did you come out, as Mr. Georgiadis says? Did you just get out or get air brains, as Mr. Kaklamanis says? Did you consider the money for the IFs to be thrown away, as Mr. Peucas said? Mr President, in order not to blame you, I would like to point out that you might perhaps have been right about the bottomless barricade in order to fit the victims of the pandemic. And worst of all, not even an apology from the country's Prime Minister. The refusal to strengthen the public health system with permanent staff, the reduced costs in the budget under discussion are a conscious optimisation option to facilitate the private sector. The opening of tourism was under pressure from airline and tour operators, rather than from the Committee of Experts' recommendations without control, without testing at the gates of entry. The result is the price that the country, especially northern Greece, pays to be very heavy. Were you ignorant or illusion that we're done with the coronary? When Mr. Mitsotakis sent a message from Santorini "Greece is very successful in confronting the pandemic of the Koronioi, come to Greece" you informed that the country is now open. Where was he really supporting this optimism? It would be useful to present the minutes of the Committee on Infectious Substances in the House. I would like to point out that SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance three times has requested amendments to the compulsory publication of minutes on the Ministry of Health's website and their transmission to Parliament and you do not. You have an obligation to inform the Greek people. The Greek people have the right to know. Why don't you do it? What are you afraid of? Who do you want to protect? Responsibility is borne solely by the government and the Prime Minister himself. Same as in education. Increasing rather than reducing the number of pupils per class. Contradictory statements. Is it stuck or does the coronary not stick to the kids? Masco with the masks. Really, who's gonna pay the bill? Mr. Theodorikos or Mrs. Kerameos? And all of this so that you don't create smaller sections that allow safer operation and better teaching. Find the opportunity to expose special education, as former Minister of Education of your resignation did. But you also failed to support society and hence the development that you promised long before the coronary. The evidence presented by EUROSTAT records the harsh reality of what we are collecting from those around us and not the one that is artificially falsifying systemic instruments. Last, then, development in the second and third quarters of Europe with a huge difference from the average, while the 24 billion that you say you have spent is another communication fairy tale. The budget says other things. Now bring in and you will vote for a virtual, fake, uncertain and also challenging budget, since in the midst of a pandemic and economic crisis you are reducing public health and social state spending, education and anticipating increased tax revenues, obviously by trusting growth that will not come with this policy. The preliminary draft budget started in October with the optimistic scenario of 7.5%, then decreased to 4.8%, and OECD forecasts estimate that the recovery in 2021 will be reduced to 0.9%. This uncertainty cancels and any design. In my prefecture in Lassithi, although so far we have no particular problem with pandemic, the economic consequences are felt. The individual income after the destruction of olive oil last year, the vertical decline in tourism, the unseen early horticultural practices, has shrinked dramatically. Workers in particular in tourism and related professions, producers, small and medium-sized enterprises are faced with the threat of poverty and the failure to meet basic needs. As far as development policy and prospects for Lassithi are concerned, it seems that we are going back to the anecdotes "Cretan has four prefectures, the following three". A characteristic example is the northern road axis for which the Prime Minister has undertaken to implement from Chania to Sitia. It's getting close. The recent statements by the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure leave Lassithi out again, despite the fact that there are mature studies that can soon be completed by the Crete Development Agency and be integrated into the Recovery Fund. The Recovery Fund is available to start and complete the entire project from Sitia to Chania. Unfortunately, your indifference to the place is confirmed, as the abolition of two flagship university schools in Lassithi prefecture of the Hellenic Mediterranean University, which made Mr. Gerapetritis so proud. The country needs another policy, that of fair growth with a strong and effective social state, with investment in technologies and innovation, in new jobs, in respect of labour rights. Minister, you referred to the anemic growth assessments in 2021. You said that we as SYRIZA wish the country would fail. We are neither the Minister for Development, Mr Georgiadis, to celebrate the dead, nor the New Democracy, to wish for the destruction of the country, because if the country fails, you will not pay it, but the Greek people. The experience of the bankruptcy of the country due to your own policies is fresh and quite painful for the majority of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u63	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Undersecretary to Prime Minister Petsas has the floor. Then prepare Mr. Andreas Nikolakopoulou from New Democracy. Here you go, Mr. Pecha.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I would like your tolerance so that I can answer Mr Katrugalo for what he said before. Minister, you referred to the European Council and to the absence - as you said - of sanctions, and I would like to be, always on the basis of our responsibility to the people who are listening to us. We all know that Europe is moving slowly, often slower than we would have liked, but if sanctions were imposed, as you said, since June 2019, what kind of sanctions would we have to face with Turkey today? For this reason, I will submit in the minutes all the conclusions of the European Council from June to 20 June 2019 - where reference was made to point 17 for appropriate measures, including targeted measures, not reference to sanctions, in October 2019, points 10 and 11 of December 2019, point 19 and October 2020, points 18 to 20, where for the first time explicit reference is made to Articles 29 and 215 of the Treaty on European Union which clearly refer to sanctions. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister to the Prime Minister, Mr Stylianos Petsas, submits for the minutes the abovementioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why do I put it in the Minutes? In order for everyone to understand that each Greek government in national affairs is building on initiatives of another, always for the purpose of serving national interests. We would like sanctions to be imposed in December 2020? That was not the purpose. It was intended to take a step further than October 2020. Was this step further? Of course it's done. The list of entities and persons to whom sanctions may be imposed by the European Union and Turkey's illegal mining activities in the Eastern Mediterranean has been extended and, secondly, the European Union's High Representative for Foreign Affairs, Mr Borrell, has been instructed to draw up a report and submit it to the European Council in March 2021 on the whole range of Euro-Turkish relations, in which of course the issues of sanctions are also the subject of this. So Europe is moving slowly. I would like to remind you that we should not replace the word'standards' in'Waiting for the barbarians' in the word 'barbarians' by our great poet Kavafi. Why? Because it's not an end in itself. It is a tool to end Turkey's invasion behaviour, in order to move on to Greek relations with Turkey, but also to Euro-Turkish relations in a better tomorrow, where there will be no provocative action in the interests of the peoples of the entire Eastern Mediterranean and of course Greece and Turkey. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] I now come to the point that we are discussing today, the budget of 2021. It is a budget which, as we all know, has been tabled in the midst of the most serious health crisis in the last 100 years. States, governments and societies around the world are tested by the strong shocks caused by pandemic, causing the biggest recession in post-war history. So is our homeland. 2020 will be closed with a deep recession. It is the price we had to pay to protect public health and save lives. The recession is deep, but not the deepest in Europe, as some in Civic Opposition claim, isolating elements in the third quarter of 2020. Our country as a whole in the first nine months of 2020 experienced a recession of 8.5%, while other southern countries such as Italy and Spain recorded a recession considerably higher, 9.4% and 11.5% respectively. Why did Greece record a better performance, while at the beginning of the pandemic of international organisations such as the OECD, they predicted that it would have much deeper than all other countries, due to its high dependence on tourism? Because Greece restored confidence, a word they never understood in Civicism. However, Greece has succeeded both in the decisive management of the health crisis itself and in the prudent management of its economic consequences. This confidence seems to be inspired both by historically low interest rates on Greek securities of every duration and by the attraction of large foreign investments that will give the country new dynamics and new better paid jobs. Attributes are the investments of MICROSOT, the work of VOLKSWAGEN in Astypalea and the expansion of PFIZER’s investments in Thessaloniki. This trust will allow us to support the Greeks for as long as necessary. Thanks to the confidence of our partners, markets and investors Greece is no longer in the euro area. But trust, you know, doesn't enjoy it once. It wins every day. Greece wins this bet, because the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, despite the crises, continues the reforms: In health, from the introduction of the National Prevention Programme and the Quality Assurance Agency, until the recruitment of seven thousand doctors and nurses to the National Health System and the more doubling of intensive beds from 557 to more than 1.250, reaching the European average. In education, from the reforms for higher education, with the aim of extroverting and attracting students from abroad, to the holistic framework for vocational education and training and the Lifelong Learning, with the aim of resolving the need for the weakest to become a conscious choice for everyone and a development policy tool for our country. In justice, from speeding up the administration of justice, with the aim of creating a clear framework for more rapid disputes that are of a strong development character, until modernising the organisation of its administrative services and establishing objective rules for the assessment of judicial officers. At work, by facilitating workers to seek the balance between personal and professional life and combating black work, until the resolution of the chronic diseases of trade union law. In the private debt, with the introduction of the second opportunity to relieve businesses and households of the permanent mark of economic failure, providing them effectively out of an economic prison. And yes, in humanity, by drafting the National Action Plan for disabled people, a programme commitment and priority of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. However, there are still dozens of reforms that all have a major goal to make the lives of the Greeks better. In the same spirit, we continue in 2021, with a prudent mix of fiscal policy that inspires confidence, combining temporary relief measures from the pandemic with permanent tax and insurance measures that leave greater income in the employees' pocket and make it more attractive to invest that brings jobs and growth in the place. A reserve of EUR 7,5 billion has been provided for in the provisional measures in 2021. Together with the EUR 24 billion in 2020, the total support of the economy and society by the state will be EUR 31.5 billion in one year, that is, what we will get in the next years from the European Union Recovery Fund. Do you realize the size, ladies and gentlemen? 31.5 billion euros! Only when there is confidence can this money be made available to deal with an emergency situation like the coronary pandemic. But also permanent measures, for example, the reduction of insurance contributions by three percentage points and the abolition of the special solidarity levy for private workers, reduce non-wage costs, make employment more attractive, increase the net income of workers, stimulate private consumption and ultimately have a clear ideological mark. We leave more resources in the hands of households and businesses, because they can make better use of them than the state's bureaucratic mechanism, which, of course, beyond ideological claws, has shown that it can build confidence when it intervenes decisively when it is necessary, not when it is the businessman. However, in 2021 the state budget does not only support our fellow citizens who suffer from pandemic, nor only reduce taxes and contributions. It does something much more: It finances all the priorities of the government project, from digital transformation to all the mechanisms of extroversion of our economy, from the creation of thousands of jobs through the programs of a newly modernised OAED, to the support of our fellow citizens in western Macedonia and Megalopolis affected by liberation and, of course, in the critical area of national defence, the strengthening of our country's deterrent power through our armament programs, the upgrading of our defence industry and the increase of the personnel of the Armed Forces. Because in the budget finally with figures, not words, the priorities of a government seem to be seen. The 2021 budget proves the capacity of the Government of Mr.Mitsotakis to manage the crisis with methodicity and design, without panic and spasmodic movements. It demonstrates the ability of our Government to implement the necessary reforms, to move with determination, dynamism and consistency in the future, to move on the path that leads to attracting investment, to create many and well-paid jobs, to speed up the growth of the economy. It is a road that ultimately leads to the wellbeing of all citizens, inclusive and exceptions. The adoption of the budget in 2021 is the crucial stage in this process. The 2021 budget is the anchor of security and stability that will enable us not to be drawn away from the lap of the health crisis and its consequences. So I call on you, with a sense of responsibility, to vote in favour of the budget, to overcome the temporary obstacles that stand before us, in order to keep our orientation firm, and not to give in to uncertainty, insecurity and fear, so that our country can continue to look confidently and hopefully at the future, this best future that all Greeks and all Greeks deserve to have. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u66	Good, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u67	I too, Mr President, request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Heta, you too?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u69	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. We have heard from the Minister, as responsible for information, about the resources available to us by the European Union. It's a development we've been waiting for a long time. However, at the same time, where there is sufficient resources, what we can see is that there is no plan. The government - and it has not told us - does not draw up any specific plan and in a certain way - based on reports, findings, opinions or what has been submitted to the public debate, but has entrusted one company with its preparation. So we want to know - an important issue for Greece that the Minister did not tell us - when the draft for a consultation policy will come - since it did not happen in plenary. And, of course, we would like to explain to us how we are going to discuss a budget without having a medium-term programme required by No 4270/2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, too. Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. On two, three topics, Mr Petsas has just spoken and is a government representative. All right, Mr. Pecha, you may think that you can get us, but you have no right to play with the intelligence of the Greek people. It is not possible to hear in this Chamber, after the volcano of the summit, that you are satisfied with the outcome of the summit and of Europe's fondness in Turkey. It's unbelievable to celebrate. You cannot rush our intelligence, nor the logic of the Greeks. You can say we failed. You can say we've set the bar high. You can say anything else, but not create a festive climate. So you accused SYRIZA here of doing 'no', 'yes', 'yes', 'no', and you turn failure into a success? So you're telling us now that it's night out while it's 12 o'clock at noon? You can't do that. We can't, Mr. Pecha, really. Erdogan's going to put the drill in March! We need to get rid of it, Mr. Pecha, sometime from the prostate syndrome, that there is someone who protects us. We have to understand that we're on our own. We've been yelling for so long. Perhaps you have put the cubit too high and expected things, which have never come from the European Union, nor will they ever come. And you know it, too. But communication policy and home and nation. We need to see the truth. The sooner we look at the issue and say, 'This is the truth', the better we will have. Let's go to something else. We had a spy story. You must tell us something in Parliament today. We had a strange espionage story in Rhodes. I ask: what the hell do we want with the consulates in Komotini and Rhodes? They've become wedges. You see it yourself. A third, Mr. Pecha, because you represent the government. Kyriakos Velopoulos personally, but also the Greek Solution, an outrageous attack by the entire media system, when the day before yesterday told the House and revealed and brought statements, studies, views of top scientists, about the medicine, about the doses of monoclonal antibodies, which helps quite a bit. SYRIZA came yesterday, with Mr. Polakis, who's a scientist, a doctor, and confirmed it. We're not sprayed. We are problematic and bring things to the House. They say doctors that there is a monoclonal dose drug, which, if you like, helps not to get someone through the disease. Why don't we do it? It takes ten thousand doses. It's called doctors, scientists. Mr. Couvelas...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u74	Good, Mr. Heta...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u75	These three are very important. But really, stop playing with our intelligence. You cannot celebrate for Turkey.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Catrugale, you're not a parliamentary representative, and there's no personal matter...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u78	There is a personal issue, Mr President, in the sense of the performance of another meaning in what we have said. I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u79	Okay. Here, Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u80	In order for the Government spokesman to justify the misfortune, he attempted two acrobatics, perverting what I had said. He asked, first of all, what new sanctions are we now asking for if a decision was taken on sanctions in June 2019? The answer is obvious. The initial, first decision was taken on the principle, which called on Turkey not to continue the illegal behaviour, because sanctions would be imposed. And that is why Cyprus which requested sanctions took them, while Greece, which was delayed and only eight months after the illegal Turkish pact, requested them, under the sole responsibility of the Prime Minister - a failure that brings its signature - did not take them. And the clearest distortion and acrobatism is that the June decision was not mentioned as sanctions because it included the term ‘target measures’, ‘target measures’. Unfortunately, however, this is the European Union's use of sanctions. We will support every national effort, but it needs self-criticism. When failures are presented as triumphs, I fear the worst for the future after the tragic 2020 for our foreign policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u81	From what has been said, most are evaluative crises. One is the demand for the House to be a medical conference - and there is no specific question from Mr Kegeroglu - and I would ask you, Minister, that you focus on any response - on when the government will be able to present a specific programme. Mr. Pecha, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Let me say this: First of all, I understand that Mr Kegeroglu refers to the Recovery Fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u83	And for the medium term.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u84	Except for the medium term. For the Recovery Fund you said, there have already been public locations and presentation of the project by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Dogloukakis. I imagine he'll be here later to answer you with details. It has been made public, it has been submitted to the European Commission and we have taken credit from the European Commission for a comprehensive plan that we have presented. If this doesn't please you, it's another matter. There's a procedure for that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u85	I asked the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Skolakis will be briefing you. However, that you do not know, when the analysis of the plan has been made publicly, when the country has submitted its plan to the European Commission, I cannot comment on that. With regard to the issues to which Mr Katrugalos referred: Look, I said before that this is a slow process - that is what you have just said - that from the process that was recorded in June 2019 until we get to the present day, several stages are taking place. When did Greece not ask for sanctions? Didn't you say in your speech that I myself referred to this since August? Has the Foreign Minister not referred since August to the Foreign Affairs Council?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u87	Too late. Eight months later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u88	Has the High Representative not been posted since August? Did we not go to record what I told you before, namely, the reference to Articles 29 and 215 to sanctions? For the first time, a vote on a dissuasive policy for the European Union is something very important. Why can't we just agree on it, and we're constantly looking for opposition reasons in national matters? What matters is that we move forward. And how are we going to proceed? Along with Europe, building our alliances. Our alliances are everywhere. And proof is the imposition of sanctions by another partner, the United States, against Turkey, on the issue of F-35 and S-400. It is therefore a multi-level process, which is progressing. There is no reason, therefore, for national issues to be exploited in a micropolitical way and we should not always take our attention from the target. The aim is to end Turkey's infringing behaviour and all the pressures in this direction are legitimate and we hope that all the Greek governments will pursue this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u89	That's what he wanted to answer, that's what he said. Mr. Nicholas has the floor from New Democracy and Mr. Poulas is prepared from the Change Movement. Here you go, Mr. Nikolakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget in 2021 takes place in the midst of a pandemic which even today affects our country, as well as many other countries in the world, but also in the midst of a global economic recession, which is the most serious crisis at world level since World War II. And because this economic crisis has the cause of the health crisis, it is clear that neither its exact length can be predicted nor can it be dealt with independently of this. The main concern is and should be public health. Besides, those countries that have attempted to promote the economy in relation to public health have failed and paid a heavy price. I think that all the political forces should agree, because these unprecedented situations require unity, but also responsible opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has caused serious financial damage to all sectors of the economy. However, the government has taken steps to deal with it. Sixty-two categories of measures have already been taken, totalling 31.5 billion, of which 24 billion are for 2020 and 7.5 billion will be allocated in 2021. I must remind you here of some of these: special-purpose compensation for workers and businesses, reduction of rent, suspension of tax and insurance obligations, suspension of loan instalments, extension of the time limit for cheques, strengthening of liquidity by means of an incredible advance - an innovative financial instrument that could not be borrowed by banks - and of course TEIX II and the Guarantee Fund, the GEOFHY programme by subsidising loans to banks, combating unemployment through OAED programmes, with significant results, having retained the unemployment rate. In July 2020, 16.8%, when the unemployment rate in July 2019 was 17.1%. At the same time, it supports vulnerable social groups, with the relevant funds in the 2021 budget increased by EUR 600 million. And all this at a time when increased costs are needed to strengthen the National Health System, to strengthen the Armed Forces and to retain migratory flows. And all that is being done by the Greek Government. Really, what if we were to follow the proposal proposed by the Civic Opposition to make all cash available in front of the first wave of the pandemic in the spring? The logic of irresponsible pluralism and populism, in such an exceptional situation, not only is it not a substantial and credible opposition but it no longer convinces citizens. You charge the government with global recession and you blame it for using the pandemic to lead the country to new memorials, such as what you led with your illusions, turning the country back into a recession in 2015 when the rest of Europe was running at strong growth rates. You predicted that Greece would be a champion in the recession and in the rise of unemployment. Now disguise yourself in this too. You are being cut and you are concerned about the middle class, which you have exaggerated with twenty-nine new taxes. However, these are not forgotten by the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, in this unstable environment and in the hope now that the vaccination that will soon begin to put an end to pandemic, the 2021 budget creates conditions for strong and sustainable economic growth. This is not only from the forecast of the budget for growth which reaches 4.8%, but also from the forecasts of international organisations such as the Commission, which provides for 5% growth and the International Monetary Fund which provides for growth, prospects and forecasts which are based not only on the definitive management of a pandemic within the year, but also on the important reform work that has been done so far by a series of bills, which have formed a different investment environment, which ensures investment and jobs. Everyone realised that, before the pandemic occurred, we had been orbiting the improvement of economic conditions, incomes and the standard of living of citizens. And this is confirmed by the figures announced by ELSTAT, that in the first quarter of 2020, our country had a growth of 0.4%, when the Eurozone had a recession of 3.7%, as well as that in 2019 there was a growth of 1.9% higher than the corresponding Eurozone average. Citizens remember that this government reduced income tax, reduced HNVIA and exempted the inhabitants of small islands from HNVIA, suspended VAT on new buildings and investments in a green economy. It reduced the tax on distribution profits, reduced or even reduced the tax advance, reduced the insurance contributions by three percentage points and by a total of 3.9%. It also abolished the solidarity levy on incomes from private activity, suspended the trade charge for farmers. It also covered insurance contributions to seasonal enterprises and covered contributions to new recruitment. We practically supported the middle-class. The previous government overcompensated it. Ladies and gentlemen, the prospects, potential and strong foundations of the Greek economy come from two other important factors: firstly, from the confidence our country enjoys in both its markets and among its partners, which are reflected in the interest rates of the few bonds that now reach historically low, but also, secondly, from the upgrading of the country's credit rating by international foreign houses and, of course, from the European resources that our country has secured in the July 2020 negotiations and will begin to enter 2021 under the Recovery Fund and REACT EU. Within 2021, it is predicted that the funds raised by our country will exceed EUR 5.5 billion, while the next few years will reach EUR 72 billion. From this pandemic, then, from this global economic crisis, we will once again emerge winners and we will emerge stronger and stronger and in 2021 and in the coming years will be years of significant and sustainable economic growth, based on solid foundations, on a coherent and structured overall reform plan, which we have already implemented before the pandemic and will continue to implement with greater determination. And those who bet on destruction and new memorials to return to power will be disproved because the citizens now know that neither this time have any delusional plans. But, above all, they know what would happen if they managed this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u91	Mr Poulas has the floor from the Change Movement and Mrs Alexopoulou follows from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the outbreak of the pandemic caused an unprecedented recession in all the countries of the world. In our homeland, the two banners further submerged the economy, but also any prospect of recovery, despite the government's pre-election promises. Every prediction of your 2021 is an attempt to delight the most negative scenario that is evolving in front of us. Starting with a recession of 10.5%, one of the largest in Europe, you estimate that in 2021 the recovery will reach 4.8% and you are relying on the following extremely precarious and uncertain factors: increasing the tourist exchange, exploiting the resources of the Recovery Fund, increasing private consumption and finally increasing taxes by 3.57. But how could your predictions be confirmed when a basic condition for the system is for society and the economy to return to normal rates? I will not go into the absolutely classic, unequal, ineffective management of the second wave of pandemic that has dissolved small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. I am referring primarily to the area of public health. How will citizens return to their jobs, consumption and business, when public health is at risk when hospitals are full of them, when the health workers are at risk of being put out of battle every day, when the risk of spreading is in red after sixty days of severe restrictions? The overall governmental management of the pandemic shows that you have no plans to shield public health, which is the shield of every citizen against not only the pandemic, but every disease, every health risk and every threat to human life. At best, you just expect the pandemic to end either by making its cycle with the vaccine, to implement your election program that is PPPs and the rental of public hospital beds in insurance companies and in individuals with the bait of profit, as well as public health is commodity and kind of luxury and not public good, state obligation and national need. In the management of the pandemic, we find that you are running behind the events with patches, the cuffs of a temporary character. In fact, there was no honest effort to strengthen the ESS, although at the forefront of the battle. In particular, the ERC is currently operating with less staff, the regular staff have been reduced by a thousand five hundred eighty-one people, while the ancillary staff have been reduced by four thousand three hundred and twenty-nine people. Most public hospitals have become monothematics, focusing on the coronary, the rest of them fail, surgery is seriously deferred, and patients are left to their despair. The new IF beds you have built operate with a loan staff from other hospitals and staff trained in the leg. The health workers are constantly out of battle because of a coronary, aggravating the operational problems of hospitals due to subsistence, while the remaining personnel are working in conditions of overworking and physical and mental neutralization. Primary health care is still subtitious. Of the five hundred KMYs you said you raised a question is that half of them operate. It's a traveling triumph without planning and targeting. We're asking for an increase in tests and what do we see? It's a gradual reduction in the last few weeks. You got two million eight hundred tests from the beginning of the pandemic. To date, there have been only three hundred and fifty thousand. Where's the rest of them? The maintenance? You protected the private sector as an eye daughter. No COVID-19 incident was hospitalized in him. Even in northern Greece, where the situation was and remains critical, you avoided doing so and did not even dismantle the ESS for a while. The public hospitals are on their limit. The only way to limit the spread of the virus you thought was to do the general ban. This is how you dissolved the economy, even in areas with minimal or even controlled dispersion. The result of the poor, desecrated and rough management of the pandemic was the cases falling slowly and remaining for sixty days in a four-digit number, the number of those who lose their lives being disproportionately large compared to the number of interlocked and the total number of cases. Ladies and gentlemen, the government does not mean to understand that by looking at the situation it does not protect public health or fool citizens. It only wins time, within which we hope to do the right thing, to invest in the future of the ESS, to organise hospitals, to invest in their equipment, their executives, the connection of medical science to research and technology, to reward doctors with rewards worthy of their offer, making the beginning by establishing the full gift of Christmas - as the Change Movement has been asking for for for how long - to integrate health workers into heavy and unhealthy, to settle the pendingity of the subsidiary who support the subordinated ESS with self-determination and honor. Unfortunately, the budget you are bringing to the vote in Parliament allows the health system to grow. You invest in the vaccine, however, which is part of the solution. The coronary will not disappear with the vaccine as wrongly let it be understood. The solution is health measures, their compliance with all of them without exception, the vaccine and the new innovative monoclonal antibodies treatments. With all that means, we can get out in the clearing. At the same time, the region is squeezing. With the retail shops closed down and the focus, unemployment and poverty have been evacuated. In my place, in Argolida, the year seems to be lost for citrus. Clementines, oranges remain in trees and farmers are in despair. Also, because of the health needs of my region, I think that Argolida should be immediately strengthened, creating a new hospital, making use of the resources of the Recovery Fund, but also of the other financial instruments that exist. Ladies and gentlemen, by closing down, economic development, progress and prosperity are linked to health. It is not possible to recover our country without at the same time investing in public health. Gentlemen of the government, don't just see numbers! Listen to the voices of those who spent days and nights from their lives in endless on-calls, trying to save people's lives under adverse working conditions. The ESS as a health shield and acquis of the Greek people must be supported by projects and not by words. Unfortunately, the 2021 budget for public health costs leaves a little room for optimism and expectation for better days. That is why we are voting against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u93	Mrs Alexopoulou from New Democracy has the floor, followed by Mrs Sakorafa from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I begin my speech and the time begins, I would like, Mr President, to say that today we are closing seventy years from the day that in Kalavritas on 13 December 1943 German occupation troops of over five hundred Kalavritans in the wider region of Kalavryta, in the Rouges, in Kerpine. Nowadays, because of a coronary, we can't meet in the Kalavrita. I think, however, because the oblivion of evil is empty for its repetition, the least we can do in this Chamber is to keep a minute's silence, something I ask of your Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u95	Mrs Alexopoulos, I think you have rightly pointed out today's anniversary. You know, in Kalavrita today, there's a series of events going on and on. Of course, this year is not easy, but I think Parliament should honour this day, so please rise for a minute's silence. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Alexopoulou, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u96	We must also ask Germany for the debts!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u97	Let the President say a word!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, if I may, because very well after the proposal and the report, you have decided to keep a minute's silence, a bill relating to Kalavrita was discussed on Friday. We suggested that the president of the Network of Testimonial Cities, the mayor of Kalavryton should come for a hearing on Monday and the chairman of the committee refused. I would ask that he reconsider his view of coming to committee on Monday on a very important issue concerning this bill and the Kalavrytas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u99	Good, the important thing is that we do not forget the crimes of Nazism against the whole world and, as Mrs Manolakou said, the issue of German debt remains open.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u101	Are you going to tell me about Sully?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u102	No, in fact, tomorrow there is a hearing of the bodies on this important issue and we also agree that the committee's invitation should be made to discuss the very serious issue contained in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u103	Good, that's what it was said. We will not now extend the debate on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u105	Here, Mrs. Sacorafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u106	As my colleagues have said, Mr President, I would like to say that we have asked for it, but it has not been accepted by the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u107	Good. Here, Mrs Alexopoulou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this year's budget for the year 2021 comes to the attention of the extremely important consequences of the horn pandemic and of the economic, of course, a crisis that accompanies him. In studying my speech, I was pleased to be unable to choose which of the reforms of the Mitsotakis Government I will highlight today in the Greek Parliament. The drafting of each budget is a bet of discipline and commitment. And, as you know, the great liberal party I have the honour to represent is always at the forefront of developments by winning any bet and target over time. The government proposal for the year 2021 consists of dynamism and realism. Its main priorities are to support our economically weakest fellow citizens affected by the pandemic, to support workers and businesses, and to create solid bases for a strong recovery in 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy supports the middle class and is on the side of all Greeks. For example, it goes on to reduce the insurance contributions for private sector workers and reduces thousands of our fellow citizens with the exception of payment for 2021 of the special solidarity contribution. In addition, knowing that the engine of the economy is increasing employment, we give the possibility to hire without insurance contributions for at least six months, which is extremely important, because the private sector can now reheat the machines of the economy. You know, our course in these seventeen months of governance reveals a different mix of fiscal policy. The New Democracy does not empty citizens' pockets to fill the funds of the state with everything else that exists from citizens' economies. On the contrary, it is envisioning and legislating towards a fair society and an economy even fairer for everyone. After all, this is what our interventions for the protection of the first residence with the "GEOFYRA" programme testifies to the stimulus of the birth rate, the 'one' problem in our country, the one in demographic terms, and the reform of taxation for all. Without complacentness and great words, we support the people of the next door, the partition and the appetite for a re-establishment of the economy. We have been fighting for these people since March of last year with the measures we have taken to limit today by 7 percentage points of GDP the recession of the economy. But the logic of 'not best' is not an option for this government. Even under conditions that are quite special for our country, we have supported the economy with over 30 billion euros. Of these, the EUR 23.8 billion was granted in 2020 and still follow 7.2 billion for the new year. On this point, I would like to turn to my constituency, the Achaeasian law, where entrepreneurs and workers were not left to their fate, with the government having more than EUR 152 million for the Achaeus. In particular, EUR 476,000 was granted to workers and EUR 12,4 million to businesses, and it is equally important that almost 12,000 companies were subsidised with more than EUR 95 million through the four rounds of the repayable advance. At the same time, we supported entrepreneurship through TEPIX II, where six hundred seven companies in Achaea provided EUR 74 million of interest-free loans for a total of 146.7 million available for the whole of Western Greece, with more than 50%. It would be my omission to focus only on what we have done and not on the great things that will follow. Greece, having restored its credibility abroad, stands on an equal footing and participates in major financial programmes. One of these is that of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, a huge programme that will contribute to the growth of the Greek economy with an increase of 2.1% of GDP in 2021. Let us not forget that, in the midst of a pandemic, our country was upgraded by the international rating agency 'MODY'S', gathering bi-corruption comments from foreign officials. And here I would like to highlight the statements by the head of the ESM Klaus Regling who noted that despite the fact that Greece was affected by the pandemic, like all the Member States, continued the reform process under difficult circumstances. At the same time, recognition of our efforts came from the President of the European Central Bank Christine Lagard and the European Commissioner for the economy of Jedillon. After all, by government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis Greece participated in the European Central Bank's Quantitative Relaxation Program and, as noted above, proceeded under difficult conditions to implement reforms. And these reforms have not gone unnoticed. Companies like MICROSOT and PFIZER decided to invest in our country by creating thousands of jobs in the coming years with funds of more than EUR 1 billion. At the same time, executives such as the Greek origin director of PFIZER, Mr. Burla, addressed to the Prime Minister himself, stressed that you feel welcome to come and invest in Greece now. Ladies and gentlemen, this year's budget opens, on the one hand, the way to returning the Greek economy to a growth path of 4.8% in the second quarter of 2021 and, on the other, ensures access to our country to funds of EUR 32 billion from the Recovery Fund, following the successful negotiation of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. I understand that a comparison in the minds of Officerial Opposition MPs is more than required. We ensure billions of euros, while you stayed still in the past, a past with failed seventeen hours of negotiation and a party leader who probably has to go back to real estate and offers, as they must have been 'Black Friday' when he was negotiating rent contracts. Maybe that's what he's good at. The only thing for sure is that it was called upon to negotiate serious issues and bring about a result and created "black" days for the Greek economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With seriousness and responsibility, we will win both the coronary and the economic bet. I call on all my fellow Members to vote for the budget for 2021 and all of us united together to leave the fake news and popular demagogues behind. Let us do everything we can to better than we can, so that our country can return to normality, a normality not in terms of past, but with thousands of new jobs, return of the new Greeks from abroad and boost the economy with multiple investment shocks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mrs Alexopoulou. Mrs Sakorafa from Mera25 has the floor and Mrs Christidou will be followed by SYRIZA. Until Mrs Sakova comes to Stepma, I would like to tell you that I consider it self-evident, which is something you must understand, that the party's request for the party to come to Parliament has already been transferred to the President of Parliament. My personal opinion is that I hope it will succeed. Here, Mrs. Sacorafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget gives the government's mark. Most of the time it ends up with no historical value, either because it is unreliable or because it turns out to be inapplicable. You achieve both. Gentlemen of the government, what is the state of the country? Where have you brought her? Cheers are out of control, which is what you know. We have about a hundred victims every day. Medical and health personnel are struggling with self-restraint on the front line, without breath. IDUs already prove inadequate, while the deterioration comes. In the real ELSTAT and GSEBEE economy, six hundred jobs are lost every day. It is foreseen that 30% to 40% of enterprises will not be able to reopen. A normal government would prioritise the immediate support of the ESS, the support of small businesses and the protection of workers, and even immediately because they have not been done, they can be done and done yesterday. But these do not apply to the Mitsotakis Government. In health we have a reduction in costs. You continue with the deficit - not to say criminal - politics. We have proposed three absolutely necessary measures from the outset: mass tests for effective traceability and targeted, where appropriate, preventive measures. Recruitment and simulations to the ERC for the necessary support and retraining of the private sector in order to meet the needs. You have consciously done nothing of this. You condemned society in a constant quarantine with tragic consequences. Each one understands how different things would be today if you had done the basics. In addition, instead of strengthening, you dismantled primary care. So it's not your fault, it's your fault. Now only you admit that summer crime has forced you or forced you to today's panic measures. Obligations of your ideas have denied everywhere the elementary logic and your political design has been exhausted in the behavior of a gambler, just wait every time to see where the ball will sit, just like now that you're waiting for the vaccine. You hope in the vaccine more than the vulnerable groups, because that's all you think it can save you, commodity of your politics and that's all. You sell hope in the world with the vaccine, but you also buy for yourself. The medical need for the vaccine, ladies and gentlemen, is it undeniable, however, what does that have to do with your policy? The health safe, the vaccinated, Prime Minister, will have lost his job, he will still be unemployed. He'll have lost his shop, his business, his house, he'll be indebted. And beyond health, it is happening, you will allow me to say, in all areas. For small and medium-sized enterprises we have proposed debt haircuts, VAT reduction, and the abolition of the advance. You didn't do any of this. You're loading on their backs the crisis. You're forcing those who were destroyed in new loans to a desperate, I'd say, survival struggle. We have also proposed horizontal support for the workers and for the uncharted protection nets for industrial relations. You did the opposite, you didn't leave eight hours, a government punishment. For what, gentlemen, are you punishing them? In education, we have proposed a reduction in the number of pupils per class, an increase in the number of residents, recruitment of staff. You did the opposite, and you arrived at the television album. Teachers and teachers and those on the front line are struggling every day to overcome the problems you have imposed. Faced with this situation, you are exhausted in communication. All the government's energy is consumed in concealing reality to save - if possible - your political image. Now for everything's sake! But, unfortunately, for you, ladies and gentlemen, it has short feet. Finally, when do you think you can pretend to be proud of all this? The credibility game you lost because reality is irreversible. Unfortunately, it's not only merciless for you. That would be indifferent. It's ruthless for society that pays the heavy price. You know better than everyone that your policies have dramatically exacerbated things. On their own, objective data would not lead to this situation, so it is part of your policy to addict society to tragic, to addict it to your failure at all levels, to health, education, the economy, everywhere, even to foreign policy. The specified failure of the policy of the willing and obedient ally you want to convince us to accept it as a normality, even somewhat unfortunate, and you are supposedly celebrating the results at the summit. You have full knowledge of failure and you fear the future because you know that you have lost control. The consciousness of failure also confirms your panic reactions. Unfortunately, however, the country is doomed to pay the government's failures. One would expect that after you see the results of your policy, you would change the question. The budget shows that you have no intention of doing so, a government of unresponsible responsibility and unreliable confidence. Ladies and gentlemen, you know the policy that is exhausted in the empire of power can be completely disastrous. You've done it before, and we've all paid for it. Society is struggling. He's living dramatic situations, and the government's mocking her out of the windows. How much do you think you can go on like this? You have brought a budget that denies reality, a budget unfounded in all its three arms and an assessment of what you have done up to now and what you have to correct and what you intend to do. For 2020, the recession will be over 10% and you are now forecasting for 2021 growth of 4%. Ladies and gentlemen, are you mocking us or yours? Without a change of policy, where will this development arise? By sticking to the same policies you are bringing a budget that you know very well that will worsen the situation, it will exacerbate the crisis at the expense of society. Who can vote for such a budget? But, of course, the Members of the House and them, not because they can assess him positively, but only for the sake of notorious party discipline or for the personal sense of participation in power. With all that, what else can one say? I wish all of us luck. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Sacorafa, too. Mrs Christidou has the floor now from SYRIZA, and then the Minister of National Defence Mrs Panagiotopoulos will follow. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, are you trying to convince Opposition, Majority and Elissona? Are you ineffective? Don't you have a plan? Do you feel the bounty indignation of Greek society and that causes you panic? Do you even realize that his story "makes up for everything", while you're already over a year and a half of government, has now been devoured, is now old, is it over? We don't know. We are coming today to discuss the annual budget in a new reality that, because you have been late to read, has burdened us with considerable losses. It is therefore the duty and duty of the Government in dealing with the pandemic to give the budget the characteristics necessary to help the productive groups and to support society as a whole. I mean, we're talking about obvious, but that's something that's going on? No, of course, ladies and gentlemen, this is not so much the case, at least, in reality that the Greek society is currently experiencing, because neoliberal ideas and the people of New Democracy do not support or approve such policies in the midst of the pandemic. Let us recall that in the last six months of SYRIZA's governance the economy has developed while once your government has taken over, we have rapidly returned to the negative signs that your pandemic and government choices have then accelerated at a storming rate. The country recorded a new major recession of 11.7% in the third quarter of 2020, making it a reality in Europe's economies. With the OECD forecast for growth of only 0.9 in 2021, it will be about 10.5 as reflected in the Commission's autumn report, without even taking into account the second lockdown. What does that mean? It means that the government has been unable to predict, incapable of seeing economic reality, incapable of operating effectively. And how is it with pandemic in full progress for some time yet, that the preliminary draft budget is considerably differentiated from the figures mentioned above? Where's he based? But almost possible conditions such as the recovery of the labour market. I hope, of course, that it will, but to base the budget on potential is at least risk, not to say evil, because the OECD says so. The OECD reports that with an annual growth rate of about 2%, Greece will return to the pre-crisis levels in fifteen years! So why does the government do that? With this assumption that "will", it decides not to substantially strengthen not only the ESS for equipment and infrastructure or for permanent recruitment of doctors, but it does not intend to strengthen any productive sector because of the pandemic. No additional costs shall be provided for either employees in each sector or for seasonal workers, freelance professionals, scientists, long-term unemployed, culture, small and medium-sized enterprises, employees. In particular, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, the middle class as a whole that has been pro-elected with magistrates, it lifts the great burden of the crisis, the lockdown accordion, your reluctance to support local markets. What click away? Professionals cry and laugh together. How many do you think they have a POS radio, for example? You know very well that banks only give cordless POS to businesses with very large turnover. We will not get tired of this until there is a slogan for support to the world of the market, to which you have once confessed, and now you have let them be destroyed: an application for a non-repayable grant for small and medium-sized enterprises, a grant covering 100% wages and insurance contributions for the time when companies will be in lockdown, an emergency income for households who have been subjected to a disbursement of their income, a grant for rents for the firms affected. We are talking about a grant and not a repayable advance, not micromass loans which since the previous lockdown was with zero income, because they did not work last Christmas. Then they waited for Halloween, after Easter, after the summer, after Christmas, with PPC sending six-month cleaners and threatening PPC's collectors - so far we have had the collectors from the banks, now we also have PPC - that if they don't pay from their closed stores, they will get the watch. Otherwise, we hear yesterday and yesterday in the speeches by colleagues in the New Democracy that for the mess of their economy SYRIZA again it is for SYRIZA! This refusal, of course, to support any sector in our country for the time it comes, goes hand in hand with the biggest state that the country has ever seen. Partially selected posters break one record after another. They're more than ever. They're more than three thousand. They have the lowest qualifications ever and the highest wage. Therefore, the conclusion is: Lefkotrees to hire sanitary or manned pulmonary clinics that have been empty, they do not exist, but for party armies and for "scollick" and "literal Pessa" exist! What about people in culture and arts? As we are able to know, people are desperately in their overwhelming majority. For this year, then, modern culture has relied on the pandemic with more than 10 million euros, that is, half the "list Petsa". For 2021? Unfortunately, in real terms, the increase in the budget for the Ministry of Culture will only be EUR 10 million. The modern civilization that is so much tested is only increased by 2.5 million euros, compared with the SYRIZA budget, which was then not thousands of unemployed workers for nine months! Culture is not a priority for the government. It's obvious from the budget. It is evident from the additional legislation of the Ministry responsible. It is obvious from the way his people are treated. Health workers are also not a priority. Workers and general public education is also not a priority. We've seen a mess with teleworking. Society as a whole is not a priority for the government, as you have an allergy to social welfare. The government refuses to see the reality or simply cannot see the reality and does not want to pursue the social policies it requires. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, in this sense we have the worst possible government to manage this crisis, not only because it does not support those in need, but also makes the crisis an opportunity to serve the interests that have given it power. And he's doing it with carelessness and the confidence of the elite that he's learned to take the lion's share from the table. Our reaction, ladies and gentlemen, along with the reaction of the world is a one-way road and, unfortunately, for the Greek society, you are careless, you are few and you are few. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, too. The Minister of National Defence Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos has the floor and Mr Zebbles from New Democracy follows. Here, Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, there is in the language of economists a specific condition accompanying every provision - at least in the theory - for possible growth, recession, stimulation or reduction of supply and demand. The term is ‘ceteris paribus’ and is translated ‘with unchanged other data’ or, if you wish, ‘ provided that the other terms remain the same’. For example, an expansive 'X' fiscal policy can bring about a boosting of demand, and this can in turn bring about a 'ceteris paribus' growth, i.e. if all the others remain as they stand. All leading economists who respect themselves and their science know that this is not the case in practice. In the real world things change. In fact, many things change simultaneously, others upwards, others downwards. They are changed and the corresponding forecasts are revised. However, the year that leaves, in 2020, will remain unforgettable - and not only for economists - as the year that everything has changed and changed so much, so unexpectedly, so dramaticly, so dramaticly, so globally and in the hands so much that every prediction and design of each economic staff had to be violently adapted to the world pandemic and the double crisis that it has brought about, namely, first of the health and a consequence of the global economic crisis. The demand and supply have been affected both at the same time and worldwide. This treaty was unprecedented, resulting in the worst global recession since the end of the last war, World War II. For some days now, I have seen the opposition argue as if all this has not happened or been insignificant. But, in this unprecedented world phenomenon, everything has been overthrown. The Greek economy could not be an exception, whether we want it or we do not want it. The Government and the financial staff have reacted systematically in order to limit the impact of the adverse effects on the economy. It's not easy at all. However, the funds enter the country from the Recovery Mechanism of the European Union or are scheduled to invade. However, the state has EUR 31.5 billion to deal with the crisis in order to protect society as much as possible and to survive the economic activity that is being tested. International markets show confidence in the Greek economy. The European authorities appreciate the country's performance and prospects positively. Investments come slowly, but are conceived when they come from global business groups. Budgeting in the eras of absolute global liquidity and uncertainty is a very difficult exercise of a delicate balance between revenues inevitably reduced, expenditure inevitably increased in order to cope successfully with the health crisis and to mitigate the adverse impact on the economy and to have recovery conditions to return to normality. Ladies and gentlemen, as if not all of this were enough, 2020 is also the year of increased geopolitical uncertainty. A series of growing challenges and security threats in our wider region, focusing on the insulting style, violating international law and directly threatening the sovereign rights of the country - not to say destabilising to the wider region - our neighbour Turkey's behaviour requires a direct, intensive and systematic strengthening of the deterrent power of the national Armed Forces. In fact, since March and after this year and the events in Evros and henceforth, the Armed Forces have been in a state of protracted status with three universal mobilizations in the summer that passed us. I said last year from this step that it is now time to strengthen the Armed Forces. Despite the concerns of the Vice-Presidents of the Reconciliation to reduce defence expenditure in the respective debate last year, I would remind you that already this year, the budget of the Ministry of National Defence has been strengthened - in cooperation with the General Accounting Office of the State and the Minister responsible - by an additional EUR 370 million for the needs of the Single Border Surveillance Body, for actions to tackle the pandemic, to cover the compelling operational costs of the General Staff, as I said - and a prolonged standby situation and not just. However, the budget in 2021 on defence expenditure is a completely different case. 2020 was the year of preparation for the next day, the year of elaboration in very difficult conditions of multi-level crises and tensions of an integrated, cost-effective, prioritized plan for the overall strengthening of the Armed Forces in means and personnel, a project prepared by the Ministry of National Defence, according to the recommendations of the General Staff, under the supervision and coordination of the OHIM in terms of needs and priorities. Of course, it was agreed on the financial planning with the financial staff and finally approved by the Prime Minister, who a few months ago by the Step of the IGC, had announced the basic package for upgrading the country's defence capabilities. Thus, with words and works, with an absolute awareness of the criticality of the geopolitical circumstances, the government, with the prime minister, is increasing the Ministry of National Defence's budget from 3,35 billion in total for defence in 2020 to 5,44 billion in 2021, thereby returning to the spending levels of the 2000-2010 period. After a decade of disinvestment, inertia and poor planning, which resulted in a 75% reduction in armaments expenditure in relation to the previous one, of course, and the difficult economic situation - but also in the difficultst situation, let me say, new torpedoes, a programme of EUR 100 million, fully compatible even with economic difficulties, if there was proper planning - but also, where appropriate, the depreciation of certain Armed Forces' armaments systems, such as Miraz 2000-5, which since 2012 lacked spare parts or were deprivated until a precedent, since they had not been provided for the signing of a contract, then in support of them in spare parts, the time has now come for re-starting. Because for the present government, the security of the country and the decisive defence of its sovereign rights are political elements unnecessarily. And towards a Turkey that is more challenging and more equipped, we simply don't risk it. In particular, therefore, the total Ministry budget for 2021, increased by approximately EUR 2.1 billion or 63% compared to the current year, without prejudice, of course, to its further support during the year from the special reserve, in cooperation with the General Accounting Office of the State. The remuneration credits increase by 4.8% or by 110 million euros in absolute figures compared with 2020, amounting to EUR 2.4 billion. These include the provision to strengthen the human potential of the Armed Forces with a thousand six hundred RDPs - professional gunmen - and a thousand short-class gunmen, OVA. The General Staff are currently working on the relevant notices to be published in early 2021. These recruitments will be summed up in five years to thirteen thousand new recruits of professional soldiers, resulting in the age renewal and the qualitative upgrading of the Armed Forces' staff. In addition, from the following academic year onwards and for a five-year period, they will be introduced into the productive schools of officers and officers of all branches of thirty-five students a year instead of eight hundred nineteen years in order to create new pilots for new aircraft, new pilots for new ships, new operators of new and upgraded armed systems of the Armed Forces. Two thousand five hundred eighty people a total of five years, the real power multiplier for the Armed Forces, which is its human potential. The appropriations for the operational expenditure of the HRF are stabilised at last year's level, amounting to EUR 480 million. But - and finally - the appropriations for the equipment programmes are being launched upwards, with an increase of some 2 billion or 375% compared with the appropriations for this year. They are shaped at the height of 2.52 billion in order to serve the needs of supporting and upgrading existing weapons systems, as well as the need to acquire new ones. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Already in 2021, we will be running, among others, the acquisition of French fighter aircraft Rafah, together with their weapons, as well as the contract of subsequent support, the four multi-players acquisition programme and the mid-life modernisation programme of existing four MEP wells, the upgrading and supplementing of torpedoes, as I said, of submarines, the acquisition of new state-of-the-art Romeo helicopters, with exceptional anti-corruption capabilities, new anti-corruption weapons for the Missing Army, new headed missiles for the Air Force, new unmanned air vehicles for the Air and Navy, the “National Typhoon” and “National Vehicle” programmes, with significant added value of the domestic defence industry. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Very little tolerance, Madam President, and thank you. At the same time, chronic problems of upgrading and supporting systems such as the F-16 upgrading and support contract and their weapons are solved, the F-16 block 52 Plus class F in Viper and the Block 50 in Block 52 Plus respectively immediately after Viper. C-130 support contract for C-27, the fleet of transport aircraft - which must not remain in large numbers, but which is why a support contract is to be signed, and this is what is being done - as well as a support contract for helicopters Apache and every servicely needed armaments system, which I very much fear for many years have been left to their fate, without a conventional vehicle of support, with apparent negative results in terms of their operational availability. Ladies and gentlemen, we can talk about the beginning of a new era for the country's Armed Forces, but on the basis of a carefully organised and executed plan, which extends over time. Comparison with the recent period is catalytic. In 2015-2019, we had fifty-four financed sub-programmes worth EUR 2.6 billion. In the period of July 2019, that is, seventeen months that we took office, we had forty-eight financed sub-programmes worth 830 million euros and we continue with the large, one hundred five sub-programmes worth 11.5 billion for the next six to seven years, already scheduled. This planned armament programme is the largest in terms of annual programming and budget that has been made over the last decades and will be implemented quickly and transparently, starting from the agreement on the acquisition of the Raphala aircraft, which we will bring to Parliament in the next few days. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing - and thank you, Madam President, for the tolerance, as I think these really have a special significance in our day - by saying that there is a very hard and serious job in the Ministry of Defence not only in equipment and certainly without drumcrackers. Through the defence diplomacy tool, we extend and deepen cooperation and strategic relations with countries such as the United States, France, Egypt, Israel, the United Arab Emirates and thus strengthen our geopolitical position. We are promoting action programmes in the European Structural Funds with EUR 84 million integrated projects, other to join 120 million, with emphasis on actions such as energy upgrading, energy savings in the structures of the Armed Forces. We support the work of Civil Protection. We support and assist the Ministry of Health in the difficult struggle for the recovery of the pandemic. The Armed Forces help as and where they can and deserve executives, of course, a great "thank you" for their morality, mind, professionalism and efficiency in the execution of their mission. But, above all, we must now give the Armed Forces the means that will enable them to carry out their full and basic mission, which is no more than a guarantee of territorial integrity and the defence of the sovereign rights of the country. The Armed Forces know how to do their job. They have proved that this year in particular. As a political leadership of the Ministry, under the command of the Prime Minister, we understand our own work, our national critical mission, to help the Armed Forces do their job well and even better by providing them with the means. That is what the Greek people want now. I therefore believe that the time has come for the National Representation to function in this direction in terms of responsibility and empathy. Since some here claim that they know what the Greek people want more than others to have the opportunity to prove it by voting in favour of the Ministry of National Defence's budget for better equipped and more dissuasive for the benefit of the country's security Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, too, Minister. The floor has been requested for two minutes, for a brief speech by the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Tsakalotos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr Panagiotopoulos, thank you for pointing out in this House something the economists say about ceteris paribus, that we are making mistakes because things are done that we cannot predict. But you have forgotten, and I want to inform the House that we have another theory of how you systematically avoid mistakes, how your mistakes are thinking. What does a mistake mean to be thoughtful? That you predict a recession of 5% and sometimes it becomes 7%, sometimes it happens 3%. I mean, on average, you make good predictions, but when you're overreacting and when you fall on the other side. Your government, however, does not have a proper model and makes meditative mistakes. He's making mistakes in a particular direction. It always says something about the recession, and the recession is always greater than the one it predicts. What economists say is that when you make mistakes that are not meditative, it's in one direction, you need to change your model, something you don't predict well. So this is where the debate comes in if you've taken enough measures quickly so that the recession doesn't fall so much more than you predicted. And I wouldn't say that, Mr. Panayotopoulos, if it wasn't for the future, to see how we're going ahead. It says the Prime Minister at the IGC that we will have a great deal of growth because all those citizens who could not consume in the pandemic have savings, that is, they will be spent after the pandemic is over. The President says, as a speaker, not as President, that it does not think growth will be so great. But that is a matter for us to discuss. Why? Why does the Prime Minister say? That there are savings and that will be spent. So those who saved now will spend more when the pandemic is over. Yes, on the other hand, it is those who have not made savings, but have accumulated more debts. So where's growth coming from? And so, if you don't have 45% growth next year, but you have what the OECD provides for, that's not thinking, it's not telling us that ceteris paribus was not the case. It's the wrong model, that doesn't work out right. And so I'm telling you, instead of presenting data, like you did on Friday, in this Chamber that has nothing to do with reality, to think very seriously about why you are always making unthinkable mistakes that are always in the same direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u117	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Kegeroglu, has the floor now and immediately thereafter the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Madam President. I'm gonna need a minute. Minister, last year we indeed refused to vote on defence expenditure because they were reduced. You voted together with SYRIZA. We were entitled to this summer when we have necessarily increased the budget and voted together now. This year, defence spending has increased by over 2 billion. We in addition to the vote - and we have said at the first moment that we will vote in favour - are also calling for the defence industry's plan, which does not exist and has not come from the government a year and a half later. And we ask: first of all, when will this plan come? And, secondly, the two billion together with the previous ones - the about three, which you mentioned - if all the equipment is complete, is it enough or is it likely that we will also need an increase in the budget in the midst of 2021?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u120	For a few seconds, Madam President, I shall take the floor. I wanted to say that we heard the position of Minister of National Defence in these critical times. The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement was placed on this speech. But SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman spoke about four minutes,
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u121	I spoke for three minutes rather than something.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u122	..., three minutes and a few minutes, as the financial officer of SYRIZA, and not as a Parliamentary spokesman for the subject of the speech of the Minister of National Defence. You have said many times, and we have answered all the tones in this Chamber this weekend - three days until now - and we will continue to do so - on the issue of the change from the preliminary draft budget to the budget, that the global conditions of the coronary had to lead the government to these changes. But you have not yet apologized and you have not given an answer because in the four years that you yourself made budgets as Minister of Finance of SYRIZA you have fallen out. The only budget that fell inside was the last budget of the Samara government in 2014. You have not, however, placed yourself on the point raised correctly by the Minister for National Defence. We are increasing, the government is increasing by 2 billion this year the country's defence expenditure. Will you vote for this increase? Give an answer to both the Greek people and the Minister of National Defence and the National Representation, as well as to all Greeks and Greek women who serve in our Armed Forces. Tell us: will you vote, as the Change Movement, the Ministry of National Defence budget, or will you do a sterile micro-group opposition, as you did on the issue of increasing wages, and the non-declaration of VAT on the islands, and all that this government has brought to support the winter Greek economy and its small and medium-sized ones? So, come on, let's talk about the substance, and not you put in small-party positions, which eventually do not interest anyone, and they immerse you in the conscience of the public. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u123	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u124	Madam President, I would like to ask a detailed question about the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u125	Allow me, please. It has to be completed...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u126	I am entitled to take the floor in addition to two minutes to comment on what a Minister says and to comment on my fellow parliamentary representatives?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u127	In the budget, as you know, Mr Colleague, this is not customary. These are by way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure, you all know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u128	Yeah, but I got the floor to comment on something the Minister said. I didn't call to...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u129	Well, you commented on it, it's over. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Developments are now screaming with regard to especially Greek-Turkish. They're so crippled that it's a wonder. And the Greek people must think about it where this policy leads, where the country's accession to NATO and the European Union, apart from economics, in relation to the problems of national sovereignty, may I say so. What do you have to say, really? May I ask you some questions: how many years does this armaments dance last between Greece and Turkey? How much astronomical amounts do we spend at the same time that the Greek people not say they are hungry, but are in a terrible position and not just today, and not just with the pandemic? Where does that reasoning lead? Are they two countries, Greece and Turkey, in the same alliance, yes or no? Where's the threat from? Turkey. Let's look at her. From a NATO member country, which is powered by trillions of arms programs, I would say, the NATO allies themselves. And they're just doing it because she's also being subordinated to the plans of the alliance. What has Greece been doing all these years? Exactly the same. Why? The most clear - and this is for SYRIZA and others - is what the State Department report on the upgrading of the F-16 is about. Read it. They must definitely be upgraded so that they can respond to cooperation with the alliance and to the promotion of projects in the wider region. Now the Ruffalo's coming in. What are the plans in the wider area? Blood. Isn't it? War. Isn't it? Aren't they imposing on the other peoples? That's it. So we say that this policy is deadlocked. And the military expenditure that has to be done has other aspects. First of all, they're unilateral. We're buying expensive weapons. We can't take anything else even if you want to, because they have to buckle with the natonics. And when they're buttoning with the navy, and let's disguise what you want, the one with the key runs the risk. It could send you the upgraded F-16 or tomorrow the F-35 where he wants to, not where you need it. That is why we are against the whole. This dance doesn't lead anywhere. And the political issue is that the Greek people pay billions for NATO needs. Of course there is also the issue of national defence. That's why we don't agree. The winners are the big groups they sell. The allies in an alliance that doesn't guarantee you anything like a country. On the contrary, it makes you play an imperialist role in the design. And, of course, that is the choice of all governments. SYRIZA took it off. He acquitted NATO of changing, demanding the paternity of agreements with the United States of America. He gave bases. New Democracy has ratified it. None of the governments since 1974 gave any new bases. SYRIZA did it. Literally "leaf" of American and natonic imperialism. We don't agree. We'll talk more thoroughly. Nikos Papanastassis spoke of this billion-dollar dance that's a dead end. It's a political matter. You cannot rely on an alliance that undermines the interests of the country. That's exactly what's going on. Stoltenberg, NATO Secretary-General, German and others statements. Aren't they the ones in NATO? Where is he? The Greek people must walk another way. This is the one-way to the destruction of the Greek people and other peoples of the region, while it must choose a different one that responds to its interests and not to the interests of a handful who enter into the sharing of the prey of the region to win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr Hetas has the floor. We'll be closing down with the parliamentary representatives so the Minister can answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let us say here that from this budget the only part we are voting for is defence expenditure. It's the least we can do because our Armed Forces deserve so much and much more. The Armed Forces have been abandoned in recent years. We all know. It's a common secret. We don't have to go into details. She needs support. It's the only part that we're going to vote on. Mr Panagiotopoulos, I hope you are on the reasonable side, you have chosen the reasonable side, because the moments are crucial - I said them a moment ago to Mr Petsa - and not to celebrate the developments that we have from the European Summit and the results. The European Union has mocked Turkey. I hope that you, as the political leadership of the Armed Forces, are aware of the situation and know that the moments are very critical, and that we have had a great slap yesterday. Because if you have knowledge of things and knowledge of the situation you will be able to react accordingly. If you dream, as some government officials are trying to cross out what we won, we succeeded the other day, then I'm afraid we're in danger. I want to ask something, because the armaments diplomacy is known. You mentioned yourself a little while ago. At the summit the day before yesterday turned our backs on us and France, with which we had developed a good relationship lately, is the truth. I want to ask and answer me, if you have any kindness, if it's about us turning their backs first. And while we were going to get fresh outfits and stuff, we finally turned around and went somewhere else. We saw France the other day turning our backs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I will give you three minutes to answer to colleagues in total, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Madam President. It is interesting that Parliament's system of placements has since been placed by a government minister. He's making the budget debate a little more vibrant. I will try to respond as best as I can to each of my honourable Members. Mr Tsakalotos, I did start this way by invoking this economic term in my place, to show that this event of the global pandemic was extremely violent, extremely unpredictable and extremely huge in scope. He overthrowed everything, not only the plans of the Greek Government, the Greek financial staff, but all governments worldwide. That is why everything is being reviewed. And what is important is, of course, is the stirring up of the health crisis so that we can then go and deal with the economic crisis. Because when there is a sudden death literally a large part of economic activity, because it is simply that people stop moving and consuming, then shock is huge and global. The only way to get back to normality is to deal with the health crisis, to start slowly, cowardly - cowardly to return economic activity to normality, through the movement of persons, consumers worldwide and so move on. From there, as I said, I did not come to engage in the debate on the responsibility of the financial officer, but to talk about the defence and to ask all the parliamentary groups to support an increased budget for the defence because of the need, due to the situation and the fact that for the first time, at least for a long time, there has been an organised and prioritized plan to cover the country's defence needs. Mr Kegeroglu spoke about a reduction in the budget last year and that he was vindicated for it. Yeah. I told you in my speech that emergency relief from the special reserve was foreseen last year. The Ministry of Defence, because it always covers the absolute and justifies its expenditure, knew in advance that it could turn to the Special Reserve of the Ministry of Finance for its support, as was the case with an extension of the 370m euro credits to cover the needs that I explained to you in my speech. The defence industry is concerned and the efforts to get back on its feet are intensive. It is not our responsibility because we are the customers, the ones who fruit the product. Similarly, we need a lack of supply of the product from the defence industry. But the effort is multi-level and I think it brings some results and has put things on their way, if the competitive processes that will be running in defence industries in the country are successful. Already on one. But we expect the next day and how it will, in principle, organise its productive activity to bring about our interest. Mr Paphie, in an ideal world, there would be no such thing and the Armed Forces would be able to make the commission of three-story cards if the offer of three-story cards could alleviate Turkish aggression. It would be nicer and more harmonious. But unfortunately, in order for the Armed Forces to offer the deterrent element to each of the recruits, they should be strengthened in weapon systems. And that's the point of trying to go and plan a program to acquire new weapons and upgrade existing systems, those that need upgrades. That's how the world works. And so it avoids, with the powerful deterrent element of the country's Armed Forces, any plan for blood and war and other suffering. That's how it's done. Finally, I have to say this to Mr Heta. We neither celebrate nor triumph, nor lower our heads down and we cry. This is not the way a cool government operates. And I think that everything that is said in the public debate on triumphs is excessive. Europe is working in a certain way, at a slow pace. I can assure you, however, that both at European Union and NATO level - the Minister for Foreign Affairs is well aware - after the intensive and organised efforts of Greek diplomacy, Turkey is in a worse position than it was a few months ago right now. Towards everyone is in a worse position. Europe works in a concrete way and we are working to highlight our arguments so that Europe and NATO understand Turkey's real intentions, despite the interests that exist and certainly affect the overall effort. France didn't turn our backs on us, Mr. Heta. In a few days we will bring the Rafah agreement to the House. In September we agreed with the French side, in December we brought it to Parliament. Do you remember such a rapid and effective negotiation, in difficult terms? Because when you receive, among other used aircraft, the negotiation between the sides is very difficult, it has a lot of thin spots. In four months' time, we have implemented, thanks to the efforts of the staff of the OHIM, the OHIM, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, such an important agreement on armaments with the French. If they did not have good intentions to help us, to provide us with aircraft, weapons, their support for many years, would we have reached three months? When was such a contract drawn up and implemented within three months and not within three years as far as possible? I wonder. Look it up, check it out. And, of course, as far as the four wells were concerned, we did not turn our backs on any France. This issue is still open. The Navy is looking for the best option, and on the basis of the possibility of having the best boats, but also on the basis of the overall package, which has something to do with building here - and therefore the involvement of the domestic shipbuilding industry with what this implies - and of course the offer of a satisfactory naval intermediate solution, that is, ships that are ready, fighters, deterrents that will be able to offer us the best we can. This is the basis of the package and we are open to every offer and to every debate with anyone, of course also with the French, but also with others. This is a process that runs. I think the next big bet we're going to face, as far as our equipment is concerned, is to bring in the four new multi-players for our Navy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Zebbles from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, last year's debate and the debate on the 2020 budget has shown the Government's ability to manage crises, with wisdom, coolness and determination, and most importantly, without even suspending its modernisation work. If we were to seek only one word capable of describing the rich production of legislation, that is what Mrs Arveller said about the government: reform. In fact, during this period structural reforms have been carried out in society, in the state and in the economy. In particular in the latter, the reform field included tax reliefs, reductions in contributions, investment incentives, privatizations, restructuring of the labour market. And indeed, the results were impressive. The economic climate index of Greece has exceeded the average of the euro area and has seen the highest performance since the past twenty years. Unfortunately, the path of economic recovery has been violently interrupted by the health crisis. But also in the midst of a pandemic, Greece managed to achieve historically a low loan rate in the 15-year bond issue. We also saw the time of the crisis upgraded the country's worthy by international credit institutions. Even now in the great recession, international markets, foreign institutional investors, rating houses, all bet on the dynamism of the Greek economy. It was the power that kept society up with the extensive sectoral and horizontal support measures for our affected people, especially the low wages. In order to understand their importance, however, we should see them locally. EUR 56.5 million was made available to Evia, EUR 46.5 million from TPIX II and EUR 25.5 million for specific purposes for small and medium-sized enterprises and workers. Total EUR 128.5 million, in addition to payment suspensions, only for Evia. What did the EMI mean for Evia, which did not have, not a Clinic, not a clinical MAF, but an elementary one? The government completed and set up the new Chalkida Hospital, which has been cancerous for years. He served it with medical and nursing staff expected to be strengthened even more, so that this sanitary ornament with the standard clinical ICUs and with CIVID -19 is thrown into the battle against the coronary, covering needs not only of Central Greece but also of Thessaly, thanks to the solidarity and self-sufficient sacrifice of his staff. In vain in this battle we expected constructive intervention and the Officerial Response. To date, it has been subject to an invitation to tender for requests and all kinds of allowances, the well-known money tree without exceptions, even for 'unwanted' ones - some police officers, showing the extent of the contradiction. With one hand red roses against repression and the other hand vague amendments and benefits. They are not wrong even when the executives themselves are stirring up this contradiction and say that SYRIZA is identified with all but all: both the policemen and the rangers and the bees and the wolves. 'Accelerating speed', you say, is the amendment that has been withdrawn. Accelerated speed the comment of "AGE" on the tombs in Serres. Accelerated speed the statement on the dead to the government. Everything's got speed? And really, why does the acquired speed always rejoice with the worsening of the pandemic? Why is speed always taking advantage of human pain? I think it gives an explanation and the "The Authors' Newspaper" that reads: "It sounds like a lie, but it's real. SYRIZA, wanting to reward the repression, gives even more money." And he continues: “They are serious there at SYRIZA? How many do they want to drive us crazy?" And I think that's the question of the time. Are they serious there in SYRIZA when they choose such hours to make clientele policies? Are they serious when they handed over five hundred and sixty-five beds to denounce the government that more than doubled them? Are they serious when they handed over broken urban transport and are today blamed on those who reorganize them? Are they serious when they invest in populism and destruction and engage in this unprecedented spice? However, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come. At a difficult and liquid juncture, the 2021 budget draws on a course of hope. Gradually, with the backing of the pandemic, the country will return to its direction of developing competitiveness and investment with weapons. This will also contribute to the first resources of the Recovery Fund that were activated the other day. It is a fact that our country is the most beneficial among the twenty-seven countries of the European Union. So Greece, two hundred years after the regeneration, enters 2021 in a new era with a peak of education, innovation, the digital transition, the green economy. She's changing her productive model. The relaunch of major projects changes the landscape of infrastructure in the region. Already the flagship work of the Chalkida - Artakis - Fishing Budget 250m euros announced by the Prime Minister in August, is included in the country's ten most important and mature infrastructure projects. Also, with the launch of the works, the road bypasses of Vassilikos and Amarynthos Evia emerges from the peculiar isolation and enters a perspective trajectory. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude, Madam President, I would like to point out that this government at this critical time has been tested in the most difficult field. He was tested in the alcohol of the extreme crises and was not bent, did not faint, did not back off. On the contrary, the events have unfolded its stubbornness and its reformist will. And he did this because he forged relationships of truth with society and citizens. He forged links of trust with youth and creativity forces. These forces will once again be on the road to the recovery of the economy and the implementation of the budget in 2021, which we are also voting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u137	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Syrigos from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will start with a phrase. "The facts of my child, the facts", "events, my dear boy". It is the phrase by which the Prime Minister of Britain McMillan described what are the most serious problems facing a government. It's the facts, they're the ones that overthrow designs, budgets, perspectives, visions. McMillan's phrase entirely matches the current situation, not only in Greece but worldwide. Who would expect these days, when we voted in this Chamber on the 2020 budget, that our country and all of mankind would be faced with a health crisis of global dimensions, which would blow economies and budgets and leave millions dead and tens of millions of patients behind? Our country, however, unfortunately, had the special feature of having faced two major crises. Alongside the coronary, a continuous crisis was unfolding with Turkey, which started in early March 2020 and continues to date. In this time we first saw Turkey try to destabilise the Greek political system through the violent invasion of tens of thousands of immigrants and refugees in Evros and the islands and, at the same time, from July onwards to July and then to remain in the longest and most serious military crisis in Greek-Turkish relations after 1974 and the Turkish invasion. Crisis of this size require national unity and harmony, they require consensus and differentiation of party passions. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, in a series of your moves, you seem not to understand the scale of the challenges facing the country and the people. We saw it all this time of the coronary crisis. When the schools were closed, you were yelling because they're closing and they have to open. When the schools were opened, you said they had to close. The same happened with tourism, with the opening of the retail trade and the focus. We must say here that you have been misunderstood. It's not opposition to saying the opposite of what the government does. Opposition is judging and pointing out the mistakes. Opposition is, when needed, putting back and back to keep the place up. You can't fish in bluish waters. We have reached the unbelievable point in Greece's opposition to ask within one month because of the coronary, the resignation of three ministers. The health crisis, which we are facing, is intense, but there are other countries in Europe with similar sizes and similar characteristics, in which things are much more intense. I read the foreign press carefully. I have not seen any other European country where the problems are more pronounced than in Greece, calling for the resignation of the Minister of Education, the Minister of Civil Protection or the Minister of Health. I have not seen any other country demanding the placement of a Secretary of State for Health. I see the same things now happening with the European Council. The softest expression I've heard is that Greece has returned empty-handed. What I heard, mostly, is that Greece took many steps back. What's the reality? Unfortunately, you have remained in the period when you believed, you had the illusion, the illusion - so you called it - that you would get bored with the jungle and the Europeans would dance at our dance. It is clear that after four years in power, you remain committed to this period and do not understand how the European Union works. The reality is that we had Germany, which did not want to see any unfavourable development for Turkey. Its position has been that we should first get together with the new American leadership and then see how we can act together. The problem was double. It was not that we only had the strongest country in Europe toward us. Furthermore, this country was holding the presidency. Within this unfavourable framework, for our interests, the European Union condemned Turkish actions - you will tell me a rhetoric phrase - and we have also had the following positive elements: The first point is that the Commissioner responsible was invited to prepare a report on the situation of things between the European Union and Turkey in March. This means that the European Union is asking for a comprehensive view of the direction of Euro-Turkish relations. This concerns both the customs union and the pre-accession status of Turkey, which gives it many privileges. For the first time we have such an approach, to see what Europe is doing with Turkey. The second positive point is that the Commissioner himself has been instructed to table proposals for extending the sanctions regime. In this context we can see more stringent sanctions. It's still to be seen. Written proposals. A third point is that it was decided to include other persons, of course or legally, in the sanctions for the violations of the Cypriot EEZ by Turkish geodetic ships. It remains to be seen whether the Cypriot proposal would be accepted for Turkish companies to be included. Fourthly, the positive point is that the Eastern Mediterranean is now being treated uniformly by the European Union as a field of sanctions and that this distinction between the Cypriot EEZ and the Greek continental shelf is being lifted. Therefore, we did not take steps backwards, nor did we go back empty-handed. We abstained from what was agreed in October 2020 at the European Council? We've clearly abstained. The conclusions are inferior to what was decided at the relevant October Council. It is, however, a fact that the European Union operates. And you have learned it since the summer of 2015. They are small steps that require extermination negotiations to change the direction of the European ship. It sounds like we had to veto. But the veto would automatically turn the problem from Euro-Turkish to Greek-German. Sanctions are not an end in itself, so that we can afford to spend the veto while we are in a phase of unprecedented liquidity, because of the pandemic and the continuing Turkish threat. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will be voting on the budget for next year. The economic situation of Greece, Europe, the whole of the world, is similar to that of exiting from a global war. We should all put our backs on. The place needs a serious opposition. The government, the political system, Greece has only to gain from such a transformation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u139	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Skourletis from SYRIZA has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I heard Mr Syrgyrgos a moment ago and started with a phrase 'the facts, my child, the facts'. Of course, the facts are what force situations to grow, parties, spaces, but it is important to see them. For when wearing ideoleptic deforming lenses, it cannot draw the right conclusions or when, for example, its own inner contradictions cannot make him read things as they stand. I also heard Mr Pessa this morning, and I heard you in a desperate attempt, referring to the issues of the last summit, to tell us how much better things are for our country. Of course, I heard something that might have missed you, that you in 2015 know how Europe works, understand us too! Understand us too! First of all, I am pleased that you draw the right conclusions to the European Union's attitude in 2015. But when in the last three sessions you kept saying and you had set the bar high, in relation to the issue of sanctions, the Government representative cannot come today and say 'it was not our goal'. This is therefore the result of a clear strategy on your part, due to internal contradictions and contradictions in your area. And bullies and buckles. It can't be done! Clear. Do you know what it would be nice for us to adopt your attitude, a nationalist attitude, and do what you did to us when we discussed the issues of northern Macedonia? We won't. So even now you are clarifying a strategy for national issues and at least start a new start, calling for the Council of Political Heads to convene. Why don't you do it? You need it because the results are not what you would expect. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked a few questions yesterday about how you eventually understand - I see Mr Besyropoulos in the ministerial seats, it was yesterday when I had put them, and Mr Skulakakis answered me instead - the various budgetary figures. I asked you about the issues of loans if you take them as public expenditure through the repayable advance. I asked you about the parole matter. I have come to a conclusion that you must be fanatical fans of Mr. Parliaar's "Sweet alchemy" show. Except Mr. Parliaro is doing his alchemy to make it very pleasant. You adopt the logic of accounting alchemys, loyal to the tradition of creative accounting, which your space had done. You know the figures at the time of the primary deficits, the deficits before we become subject to the Memorandum regime. You have a quite great experience around them. You are now adopting accounting alchemys to change the reality of the sizes. And this is not the fault of the facts. It's the deformative lenses you see. So we now come to expect an 8% increase in tax revenue. What economy? From what business? By which natural persons? And you're saying that won't come from new taxes. Yeah, okay, it won't come from new taxes. It will come from the development that the OECD sees it as 0.9%! And the question is this: was this development of budgetary figures inevitable? Was it inevitable to have the biggest recession in the third quarter of all the other European countries? Or did your policy actually lead us to a fall? We told you: "Support, given time - because what you don't do in this tweeting, in that particular time in the economy, you find it in front of you - because negative dynamics create multiplicational phenomena. So we told you: 'Cash the labour costs of the affected enterprises, wage costs'. You refused. You've done the least possible. You've subsidised a job suspension. We told you: 'Support with unpaid advances to businesses'. You refused. Is that all what would have affected the sizes? How many less recession units would we have avoided if we had supported the available income of businesses, consumers and workers? The negative dynamics therefore work proliferationally. And today, indeed, we are in a situation which is one of the worst in Europe. Of course, your perception is reflected in Mr. Pissaridis's Bible. Every Moses wants his Bible, it seems. So what does this Bible say? It says all the forgotten, shining arguments, which were in the last decade, and restores them as a modern plan. And you tell us, when we criticise his content: "Look at see, that's a technocratic view." It's like technocratic opinions don't have a look at things! Like they're neutral! It is a view, it is a narrow-class look and it provides for the dismantling of labour relations. It provides that the International Monetary Fund and the Troika could not pass on to the first and second Memorandums. The rest of the dismantling of industrial relations is now anticipating and bringing us as a modern strategy. It also provides for privatizations. To catch some examples, how you handle things. You want to privatise all the energy networks. The strategic infrastructure of the country, which is, of course, monopolies, you want to give it to individuals, to have a monopoly position - what is this concept that provides for? - indeed, in enterprises which are profitable, efficient and which have endured! That is our different view in relation to the liberalisation of the energy market. We moved, but through a glance of ours, preserving the concept of the public interest. And keep going. You want to privatise the ELPEs. You have put the corresponding amounts in the budget. What have you done since you stopped implementing the original law in relation to the administration of the ELPEs, and have you allocated the rights of the public to the private shareholder? Damage. But you know what? For the private sector, it is one of its investments that participates in ELPEs. He doesn't care. He's got the Greek one, he's got banks that he hasn't made. He does not care about this basic, the only refinery infrastructure in the Mediterranean to operate and offer through its superiority to the Gross National Product. In the renewable energy sector, you have broken down the corresponding account. Huge deficits, huge deficits! And you're talking about green development and what you want to catch. How? By undermining the investors today? You have followed the so-called 'target model', the objective market, in electricity, which has begun in our day. The result is that for a few days, as it works, it has led to oligopolistic situations and the wholesale price in the middle trend has reached heights. Soon this will hit the bills. You've screwed up!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u141	You have to close down, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u142	I shall conclude, Madam President. I would therefore like to mention the example of the privatisation of the national insurance system. But look, ladies and gentlemen. Europe is at a critical crossroads. It cannot continue, after the pandemic has been quoted - and I say 'parenthesis' in relation to the policies followed, because it is now borrowing for the common interest - in the logic of reciprocity of debts. This cannot be a parenthesis and should go back to neoliberal orthodomy, because we will have tragic results in the field of work, society. So I would say this to you: Abandon extremist neoliberalism. Write with other voices, such as that of Italy, which raises the issue of the deletion of the pandemic's debt. That is a very specific proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Colleague, you have to close!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u144	What did Mr. Mitsotakis say at the respective summits? What are you gonna say tomorrow? These are the relentless questions put by reality itself. Because let's go from evil to worse. But the world does not have to pay for the works of your results and actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much. The Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Kerameos, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u146	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are debating has been drawn up in the midst of an unprecedented global pandemic that has reshaped the needs and priorities on a global scale, an unexpected crisis that has hit the world and education, as UNICEF figures suggest that the process of learning for more than one billion children has been affected by more than eighty eighteen countries in the world. Although the pandemic has obviously affected education in our country, reforms in education go on and investment in education as well. Despite these great difficulties, the budget for 2021 will increase the total amount spent on education by EUR 142 million, an increase of 2.5% over last year. In 2021, it is estimated that 5.6 billion euros will be spent on education compared with 5.4 billion euros in 2020. Of this nearly EUR 4.9 billion will be drawn from the ordinary state budget and EUR 710 million from the Public Investment Programme. I will present to you today the main budget figures of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs of 2021 grouped together in three components. These three elements together mark our priorities and planning for the year ahead. Component 1 : Permanent appointments. The Ministry's budget for 2021 contains an innovation, an innovation for the country's educational data in the last decade: Ten thousand five hundred permanent appointments in general primary and secondary education. We're strengthening public school with human resources. We support the learning process. We provide our teachers with stability, prospects, opportunities for professional development. It is an effort initiated by the previous government, but it did not go any further. In particular, in the major category 21, which concerns employee benefits, appropriations have been provided for the appointment of ten thousand five hundred teachers, the five thousand two hundred fifty relate to the school year 2020-2021 and the rest to the school year 2021-2022. These permanent appointments, which meet important needs of our educational system, come to add to the four thousand five hundred permanent appointments in special education and education, the appointments we have made this year, the first in the history of the country through ASP in the sensitive area of education. This year was a year with the highest staffing of our school units, as in addition to the permanent appointments to special education and education, the largest number of assistant teachers in recent years has been recruited. They exceeded fifty thousand, data and increased needs due to the pandemic. Component two: Targeted increases in significant funds of the Ministry's regular budget. The Education Ministry's budget for 2021 shows, for example, an increase in the following categories, in grants to higher education institutions for operating expenditure by almost EUR 6 million, EUR 5.780,000. Furthermore, we are now adopting an exceptional grant to our universities of EUR 16 million again on the basis of objective criteria, as was the case last year. It is worth noting, ladies and gentlemen, that in the previous government financing our universities was decided by the Minister without institutionalised objective criteria. This has changed over our days and has already changed from the extraordinary 2019 grant, which we chose to provide on the basis of objective criteria, namely the number of students active in each institution. Then we passed the law establishing the National Higher Education Authority. And there it is foreseen that most of the regular funding of our universities is allocated on the basis of objective criteria, such as the number of students active, the duration of the curriculum, the size and geographical spread of the institution, permanent and temporary staff, and therefore an important part on the basis of objective criteria. In addition, part of the grant is allocated on the basis of qualitative criteria, such as the quality of the training provided, the research activity, the extroversion and the internationalisation of our universities, the performance on these axes by the universities themselves, which is evaluated by the Independent Authority, the National Higher Education Authority. So, as we have committed ourselves, the regular financing of our universities on the basis of objective and quality criteria, always on the basis of a recommendation from the National Higher Education Authority. The budget also provides for an increase of EUR 3 million in the income support of families with children who are studying away from permanent residence. This preliminary concern is also associated with rationalisation in the system of conversions. For the first time, we have established an academic criterion for conversions, that is, the basis for importing less than two thousand hundred fifty moles. We streamlined the existing economic and social criteria, for example the examination of average income over the last three years and not just one and introduced the innovation of the second cycle of conversions with the possibility of moving to another part of the same scientific field. In the wider context of our care for the educational community in the middle of a pandemic, we have increased the housing allowance, we also cover the ticket subsidy, making the transport of learners from their residence to the home of the educational structure free of charge. The financing of the IATP is also increasing, as we continue to reform a body that is a valuable tool in the service of citizens, education, extroversion, a key tool for bringing back the so-called 'brain drain'. Our aim is to get rid of bureaucracy, suffering and unfair exclusions in the process of academic recognition of foreign qualifications. Third component: Increases in the Public Investment Programme. In 2021, there is an increase of EUR 200 million from the Public Investment Programme in relation to the 2000 PPP budget. These additional allocations of EUR 200 million have been paid for the costs of implementing our flagship actions and programmes in combination with resources from the ESRB. Indicatively, more than EUR 100 million has been provided for in the Special Equality, Secondary and Special Education and Education Agency of EUR 561 million. At the level of actions, the single type of full-time primary school, two-year pre-school education, support structures for education, support for secondary education, inclusion of vulnerable social groups and refugee groups in the educational system, apprenticeships in PAAL, TEK and IEK, support for school units, about three thousand apprentices of the institution of apprenticeship with 700 euros each to reduce the impact of the pandemic. The funding of the Specialised and Personalised Educational Support Programme is also increased for the integration of disabled and/or special educational needs pupils, for the support of schools by psychologists and social workers, for the payment of assistants of teachers and specialist and assistant staff to cover emergency needs due to coronary, for measures to equip school units and universities with electronic equipment, for projects at universities for COVID -19 and for building facilities, for projects of the special accounts of research funds such as equipment, research programmes, practical exercises, academic experience and national participation in other European programmes. The extension of the Pan-Hellenic School Network is still part of the PPC. We have secured the funding of the Pan-Hellenic School Network from the Public Investment Programme for the years 2021 and 2022, and even with an increase in budget in relation to previous years, which now allows the Pan-Hellenic School Network to have appropriately trained technical teams, while rescheduling its resources and optimising individual procedures to respond to the enormous increase in the use of distance learning services. As regards the financing of the Pan-Hellenic School Network for the enhancement and further upgrading of its digital services, the Ministry incorporated with the cooperation of the Ministry of Digital Governance a project of EUR 3.5 million for the years 2021-2023, which was finalised in 2016. With regard to the use of ESDP funds, in less than a year and a half, absorption in the Ministry of Education's actions was increased from 45%, which was for days SYRIZA, at 61.63% with a total of EUR 682 million. New measures have already been developed and implemented, increasing the proportion of integrated projects in the education sector by 38.2%. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Madam President, I would like your tolerance for a moment. The financing of new actions in the field of education, which exceed EUR 352 million, was ensured in order to achieve the maximum absorption of Community funds in the current NSRP by 2023, as well as the forward absorption of the new NSRP 2021-2027. The budget shows a slight reduction in the budget by 57 million. This is fundamentally pragmatic, because it is mainly due to the transfer of responsibilities, therefore also related funds, to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and Internal Affairs. In particular, contracts are carried to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport with transport service providers for the transport of reduced student tariffs and with the Ministry of Interior the contracts for cleaning staff in schools are carried over. Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying that we are in the middle of an unprecedented health crisis and before a macroeconomic uncertainty that continues with the consequences of pandemic and the speed of restoring economic activity. Despite these adversities, the government is stepping up its efforts, exploiting resources from the NSRP and the Recovery Mechanism, tools and synergies with the other states of the European Union, and it is expected to make EUR 30 billion available to deal with the crisis. The three components of the budget for next year are the permanent appointments, secondly, the targeted increases in the ordinary budget, thirdly, the increases in the Public Investment Programme aimed at shaping a mix of development of our educational system, of quality enlargement, of digital transformation, of social care, and of all. Our first concern at the Ministry of Education is to stand alongside every member of the educational community, especially in the middle of a pandemic, to listen to their difficulties, their problems, their ideas, their proposals, to meet their needs. Ladies and gentlemen, in a few months' time, approximately 2.2 million citizens were integrated, from kindergarten to university and Lifelong Learning, in distance education, by crushing stereotypes, plucking down, transforming education, approaching the present and its future. The project is titanium and the difficulties are many. But in this effort, we are all together. I would like to thank from the heart once again each student, every student, every student, every teacher, every parent who tries and adapts itself, which superfluously obstructs every small and every great step. We're all going to get out of this crisis united, stronger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u148	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u149	I didn't hear you, Mr. Comrade. Speak louder, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u150	Madam President, all parties mentioned earlier the bill that we have tomorrow and the hearing of the Greek-German institution. Do you not, too, share the unanimous view of all the parties that the Minister should finally accept a representative to discuss this matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u151	You can pass it on to the Minister now, Mr President. You know that the Bureau agrees. After all, it is a request that we have made. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u152	Madam Minister, there is a demand from many aspects that you finally accept what the President refused, you, I do not know - I put it in question - to come to the hearing of the bodies of the National Board of Appeal of German Debts and the Network of Testament Cities. You'll have to accept it. Today is the day for the Calavres, and I think what happened is unfair.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u153	Madam Minister, I would say that you have to agree, because all parties agree with this proposal, so I think you can accept it. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u154	Madam President, as you can see, this is the responsibility of the Bureau of the Committee on Forestry. I imagine that any request will be conveyed and dealt with by the Bureau of the Committee on Culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u155	We want yours, too. Mr Boutsikakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I think you have been behind a few months with the programmes and proposals you have to make, because you are still in 'Short Upright II'. What you do not understand there in the opposition is that we are standing because the Prime Minister of the country is Kyriakos Mitsotakis, because all those who have been deceived so long and all these months have been working nights to deal with the pandemic and above all because the Greek people have sent you there, at the headquarters of the opposition. But I don't think you can raise that weight on your shoulders either. Who can take you seriously? How can one forget the creepy comment of "AGE" about the graves, that others may need it? How can one forget the comment of AUGIS that compared northern Greece to Bergamo, the wagons that allegedly carry coronary diseases from northern Greece to Athens? These have been adopted by your own MPs, like the supposed parallel system for recording cases, as Mr Mylopoulou wrote in his post and the paid interviews, it is assumed, of the Prime Minister, as Mr Giannoulis said. I don't think you should judge the perverts yourself. There is still talk of the raid, this tragic, this unacceptable raid of shame on the ICUs of the "SOTRIA" in the midst of the battle that people give there. And there's an autogol! You, the so-called socially sensitive, have not only voted for the relief measures from the 'January' cyclone, but also voted against the reduction in contributions, so as to increase the income of workers. You have delivered a country with the largest investment gap and the highest unemployment throughout Europe, a country in a poor economic situation. You took unprecedented collective measures and made horizontal cuts in all incomes with "significant" overtaxation. You have handed over a country where illegal immigration was blooming, a country with the ESS impoverished. You come today and you are threatening the coming of the so-called "Second you wear Left". For what? That the second time it's gonna be, it says otherwise. Shame, he says, and you'll control the joints of power. What does all this mean? Are you threatening us for something? Should we be afraid of something here in the temple of democracy? Did you not understand, colleagues, exactly what democracy is and how it works? Didn't you like the city? Stop this divisive rhetoric at last. Let us now remember how the New Democracy Government faced this difficult situation. We have given financial support to the affected, the unemployed and, in general, employment, since we have prevented redundancies. We have supported vulnerable borrowers, we have created liquidity tools with the culmination of the repayable advance. We have reduced the advance payment of tax, VAT, created a new fair tax scale, abolished the solidarity levy for people with disabilities, paid birth benefits, increased tax on every child and reduced VAT on infants. For the first time in history, the public sector financed the entire private sector. Most importantly, all this will be paid out from the resources that we have secured from the Recovery Fund. And that's why? Because the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis changed the country's image abroad, it achieved the fiscal objectives and formed a modernly attractive framework for investment. This is how we gained the confidence of citizens, markets and the international environment. This is, of course, reflected in low interest rates. As a result, raising out of the EUR 12 billion markets in the midst of the pandemic is a result. I will tell you something that is whispering behind your back even by your own voters. They say: "We do not want to imagine what would have happened if the pandemic had broken out while SYRIZA was still ruling." Ladies and gentlemen, in these unprecedented circumstances the government brings a budget of a clear social character. We now provide EUR 7.5 billion to deal with the consequences of the pandemic in 2021, we are reducing insurance contributions, we are extending VAT reduction and the suspension of taxes on goods and services, we support the social fabric, citizens, workers, businesses, we care for the support of vulnerable, economically weaker strata, we lay the foundations for strong recovery. The budget is of a clear development nature. It is geared to the development of entrepreneurship to promote investment. This is reflected in the Pissaridis report, which says, among other things: "Greece needs extroversion. Investments and the growth of enterprises create jobs." I will add: Not the statement and not the SYRIZA's backward ideas. This is the road to the convergence of the Greek with the European average income. This is our objective, a realistic budget with the support of the ERC, which has already been received by seven thousand recruits and doubled by the ICMs, with the support of education - Mrs Kerameos told you just now - the recruitments we have planned and finally by strengthening the Armed Forces in all the bodies, on earth, on the sea, on the air. All this without a new tax on anyone, not on households or on businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, positive developments in medicine create optimism. We seem to be approaching the beginning of the end of the pandemic. No one knows how much longer the health crisis will last, so this budget has considerable reserves and has flexibility for all the scenarios. For all these reasons, I urge you all to vote in favour of him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, my colleague. Mrs. Merope Jufi has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate this year is taking place with our country from an unprecedented health and economic crisis. All indications show that the country's economy has entered a critical situation, but the New Democracy Government and MPs are striving to obsessively reverse reality as a booster effect to believe that they themselves are perfect and are progressing, of course, to help the lack of substantial criticism by the "good" systemic media. Ladies and gentlemen, society is frightened and struggling. The data and figures are insignificant. The Greek economy recorded a deep recession of 11.7% in the third quarter of 2020. We take the second worst position in the European Union. Of course, even though it was possible for the budget area, the government also spent the least resources on the armouring of the economy and society, just 6.7 billion, as is directly confirmed by the implementation of the budget, with the figures of 24 or 13 billion being official 'leukemia' of the financial staff. At the same time, EUROSTAT highlights the collapse of the low wages, ranking Greece in the Eurozone's last-principle, small and medium-sized enterprises are unable to cope with and the provision made by the President of the Chamber of Commerce that 50 000 companies will be closed. At the same time, debts are rising for more and more citizens. Only in October, the number of debtors increased by five hundred thousand, touching our 4.3 million fellow people, while the latest report "ERGANI" illustrates the dramatic deterioration in the labour market, describing the worst ninety months since 2013. Of course, the government, the financial staff and the Prime Minister have loaded all their responsibilities on the coronary, but they cannot explain to us, since pandemic is about the whole planet and the countries of the European Union, because we are the worst. Of course they must explain why the state budget had already been derailed since January 2020, before the pandemic and the lockdowns. In both January and February, the discrepancies were large in revenue and expenditure, leading to a deficit of EUR 1 billion. In addition to the coronary, there is no doubt that the government has serious responsibilities. It has failed in budgetary sizes, the management of the second wave of pandemic, the strengthening of the National Health System, the support of the many vulnerable social groups and education policy, where the educational community "surrounds" in telecommunications and the students are at risk of losing, despite the racing efforts, two consecutive school years, since according to ELSTAT's latest figures 22% of households have no access to the Internet from home, without taking into account how many other students do not have the proper technical equipment or quality of the internet for a reliable connection. In particular, in health and education, the draft budget for 2021 is disappointing. The government seems to be out of reality, surrendering to ideology and political obsession, indifferently or faced with public health. Bora is, it will pass, the pandemic leaves, the vaccine comes, so there is no reason for extra costs and, in particular, permanent staff in the health system, despite the instructions of the World Health Organisation for the new needs, the new inequalities and the new challenges analysed by the former Minister of Health Andreas Xanthos. The same pattern is observed in education, where the government's plan is equivalent to the major needs that have arisen at all levels of education. They're disgusting numbers, they're making announcements. The fake words, the big ones. For 2021 the budget is reduced by 1.17%, i.e. by EUR 160 million. Indicative and indicative of your policy is the reduction of spending on vocational education, training and Lifelong Learning. I would remind you that the Minister has introduced a bill to the committees to vote next week, claiming that he is seeking to upgrade this sector. On the contrary, we claim that it 'democratizes' public education and training, and the budget confirms this assessment, since the losses in this area exceed EUR 28 million. The innovative programme of the new PESA authority aimed at strengthening by supporting teaching, with psychologists and social workers, has not yet started. We also have a significant reduction in higher education. Universities cannot cope with a financially suffocating environment because their costs have been reduced since last year. This year they are reduced by 20 million euros. Thus, the exceptional grant just announced by the Minister is less than last year when the universities did not come out. Taking into account their increased needs due to the pandemic, the fact that they alone cover the amounts for the telematics platforms, institutions face considerable difficulties in the supply of materials and services if they reoperate within 2021. In addition to this, the Ministry has already established punishing conditions for the grant of UIs by universities and congresses that all together emit a risk signal for the low funding and serious staff shortages, which the Ministry refuses to replace adequately. What is the government's answer? It leaves the field free in private colleges, while it intends to establish university police, or more rightly to re-establish it, for those who remember security student. This proposal was, of course, rejected by the Presidents, rejected by the university community and by all democratic citizens. The needs of the HEIs are in a completely different direction, and the reduction of funding and the deliberate underselling are not replaced by law and fight. The government says it's increasing the Public Investment Programme. So let the Minister present us with the part of the PPP that was implemented this year, because this year he has undermined the PPP's regular budget. In the year of pandemic, tele-education, lost teaching hours, the Ministry of Education had money and chose not to spend it. That is why he failed to complete the permanent appointments. He chose to deal with three-month-old contracts, with gaps everywhere, even in special education and training, with refugees in the camps because they were not given the money to carry them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Madam President. How, then, can we believe the current promises of the New Democracy? Our view is that it is the New Democracy's intentional political act to back up, to succumb to public education, with the aim of depreciating and degrading it in favour of the private interests that brought it to power and which require an immediate vital area of profitability. We are voting against the budget and government policy because it has failed to manage the second wave of the pandemic. He failed to manage the economy. He submitted a virtual, fake, but also a challenging budget that, in the midst of a pandemic and economic crisis, reduces public health and education spending, because he insists carelessly and reassuredly to propose as a development model what has bankrupt the country, even though the pandemic has shown the limits of incompatible neoliberalism with the painful experience of the tragedy in public health.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u159	You have to finish slowly, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u160	I shall conclude, Madam President. The only hope is a different left progressive project, with fair growth, with strong and effective social state, investing in new jobs, respect for labour rights, technologies and society, with substantial policies for redistributing and reducing inequalities, with priority for the real needs of the social majority and the new generation. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much, too. The Minister has asked for the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll be very brief. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise three points. She said Ms. Juffy had a budget cut. Let us all just do mathematics: education budget 2020, EUR 5.4 billion, a budget of EUR 2021 5.6 billion. Is that a reduction or an increase? That's the first point. The second point is: Mrs Jufi said: "We are voting against the budget for education. The plan is disappointing." Therefore, the increase of 142 million euros is voted against by SYRIZA and, above all, permanent appointments to general education. We are talking about ten thousand five hundred permanent appointments, which have not been made for over ten years. SYRIZA is voting against them. Let's all record this, so we can figure out exactly what's left of each other. I would just remind you that in last year's budget for 2020 SYRIZA has chosen to vote against permanent appointments as well in special education. Four thousand five hundred permanent appointments were completed this year. I close with the following: First of all, spending on HSY is increasing. Secondly, something very important is changing, which, unfortunately, SYRIZA does not recognize. For days, SYRIZA, how was it decided what money each university would get? As the Minister considered, without objective criteria. So we have come here and said that this is not acceptable and that there should be objectively specific criteria - the number of active students, the size of the institution, the geographical spread of the institution - and qualitative criteria, namely, how a university, how much research has been done, how much extroverted. That is exactly what we voted on and we are already doing, as we committed ourselves. This, perhaps, is annoying the Civic Antipolitics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u164	Madam President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u165	No, we won't open a debate now, my colleague. Please. You can't do that. Your parliamentary representative will do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u166	He referred personally to me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u167	What can we do, my colleague? You spoke and the Minister answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u168	He did exactly the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u169	Madam Colleague, you have no say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u170	I have to answer, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u171	No, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u172	I have a right under the procedure to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u173	You don't have the floor. Please. You won't answer. Your parliamentary representative will answer. We cannot discuss the budget today in this way. I'm not giving you the floor. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Dendias, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the 2020-2021 budget takes place at an extremely difficult time. The pandemic leaves a heavy print worldwide and despite the unprecedented effort, our country pays a heavy price. More than three thousand fellow citizens, our fellow humans, our friends, our relatives, will not be with us on Christmas days. Despite the enormous grief of all of us, Greece is fighting to stand up to hospitals, workplaces and homes, while respecting the measures. We all hope that the test is approaching its end. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with the new political approach, attempts to contribute to the recovery effort. Together with the State Secretary, Mr Kostas Fragogiannis, we have incorporated into the targeting of the central agency and our diplomatic authorities, actions to promote extroversion and regional and international economic cooperation. There is a very tough effort to attract investment in a competitive environment, but it brings clear and well-known results to you. In the context of digital transformation, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs fully transforms the consular services provided. Together with the Deputy Minister Vlassi, we are introducing digital tools that are already piloting our consulates in London and New York. It is planned to extend to all our principles within the next year. It will be a new era for the services provided by the Greek consular authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the narrow core of foreign policy. In recent months, as you know, we have made agreements delimiting our maritime zones with Italy, with Egypt and also recently agreed with Albania to refer our territorial waters to twelve nautical miles and under the terms of UNCLOS the matter to the International Court of Justice in The Hague. We closed decades and reversed the Turkish account about Europe's so-called 'naked child', about what was allegedly anti-capitalist positions in Greece. The foreign policy of the Mitsotakis Government has been developed on the basis of a clear model of strategy, cycles of intermittents, which are also divided by the time-consuming axes of our foreign policy, namely the Cyprus issue and the Greek-Turkish dispute. For the European Union, which is a key cycle of activity and a time-lag, let me then refer to recent developments. With regard to our immediate neighbourhood in the Balkans, we are promoting and supporting the European perspective of the Western Balkans, on the basis of the initiative of Thessaloniki and of the relevant heresy. We are creating new opportunities and prospects with an emphasis on interconnectivity, but also on the defence sector. In the Mediterranean, in the Middle East, in the Gulf countries, I hope you will observe it, a new architecture which goes up to India. We are broadening our bilateral and tripartite relations, as well as the contractual framework in critical areas such as defence and economy, with countries such as Israel, Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Bahrain, Oman. Particular reference must be made to signing in the context of the recent visit by the Prime Minister to the United Arab Emirates of the strategic partnership and the bilateral agreement in the fields of foreign and defence policy. It is the first such agreement Greece has signed since World War II. This week I visited Jordan, formerly Iraq, and the next visits to Saudi Arabia and Bahrain are scheduled. We are soon awaiting the Indian Foreign Minister in Athens. Despite the problems of the pandemic crisis, we are creating new realities, working closely with the United States and with France for this purpose. We have created consortia on issues with Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia, which I have visited in recent months and are present at the Caucasus. As far as the United States is concerned, I must refer to the highly successful cooperation with the outgoing Foreign Minister, Mr. Mike Pompeo. You know, there is no previous history of so many foreign ministers meeting in a given time, with the crown of the renewal of the Mutual Defence Cooperation Agreement and the further upgrading of the role of Souda, as well as the entry of Alexandroupolis into the common defence planning. I want to tell you here that we have already started talks on New MDCA. I should like to make a special mention - and it is worth it - of the clear position expressed by the US Secretary of State at the last meeting of NATO Foreign Ministers. It clearly stigmatized Turkey's destabilising role in NATO and the region. There is no historical precedent for such a position of an American Minister in NATO. The newly elected President Biden's position on issues of Greek interest and the announced choices of his staff give us the right to optimise further the prospects of Greek American relations. Russia: The successful visit of Mr. Labrov to Athens was an important step towards the common goal of restarting Greek-Russian relations. I note his clear position on the self-evident, according to International Law, right for Greece to extend its territorial waters to twelve miles in the Aegean Sea. Mr. Lavrov dissolved a historical myth. With China we also look forward to the development of our already close economic relations. We are trying to take advantage of our participation in the UN in the most beneficial way, we are taking part in all initiatives to promote peace and stability in our wider region. Ladies and gentlemen, when we have been absent, as in Syria and Libya, we have paid it dearly. We are doing the same in the regional security agencies, such as NATO and the OSCE. We create with Cyprus permanent copying of the tripartite and quadripartite understandings in Nicosia. We are present, as we have a duty, in sensitive areas relating to human rights. We have completed a successful Presidency in the Council of Europe, led by the Deputy Minister, Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis. We are promoting a tightening of relations with countries that we have so far considered to be outside the range of our interest. I am referring to India, which is present in the great work of Heraklion's new airport. We see Africa clearly. We're opening an embassy in Senegal. We are broadening our presence in the sensitive region of the Sahel. We are pushing our relations with Canada. The successful visit of my Canadian counterpart in October in Athens was the first after twenty years. Our precious supporter is always the Greekism of the diaspora. In our time-consuming axes the Cyprus issue dominates. Turkey's provocative and illegal actions in the enclosed city of Famagusta and in the Cyprus Exclusive Economic Zone do not contribute to a constructive climate. Negatively, the statements by the new Turkish Cypriot leader, Mr Tartar, are also being assessed. I think we have all agreed in this Chamber that the only way to solve the Cyprus problem is to reopen negotiations on the basis of the Security Council's decisions and the full implementation of the acquis communautaire. We are working in this direction, in close cooperation and in complete agreement with the Cypriot Government. In relation to Turkey, the Mitsotakis Government has made it clear that we would like a long-term relationship of good neighbourliness, based on full respect for international law, if necessary, if Turkey itself wishes to do so, with a lively European perspective. We are always open to dialogue under international law. However, the Turkish Government has to prove in practice that it endorses the dialogue under international law, and this choice of Turkey should have a duration, not an opportunity, to be a characteristic of a policy choice, not a flag of opportunity. I would like to tell you that Greece's attitude is not dictated by any punishment. It is dictated by the constitutional obligation to defend our sovereignty and our sovereign rights and discounts on it, regardless of the minister, irrespective of the government, regardless of the attitude of other countries, regardless of the attitude of the European Union, regardless of the attitude of anyone. Not only do we now see, but also the growing share of the international community that the 21st century Turkey is changing radically. It is revived by nationalism, it is now combined with intense reformism, a neo-ethnic, intense Islamism, with a clear divergent course from Western values, such as democracy, human rights and respect for the rule of law. Turkey's destabilising presence in Syria, Libya, Iraq, the Caucasus - either by invasion or by a jihadists' travel agency - is threatening Europe as a whole and stability in the wider region. The subjugation of religious fanaticism at the heart of Europe, the work of immigration, the attempt to pervade NATO, the attempt to create a new Turkish Yalta, the threat to war against a Member State of the European Union and NATO, if it exercises its right to extend its territorial waters to twelve maritime miles, a right that forms part of the European acquis, militarisation as a method of resolving disputes, the conversion of monuments of global cultural heritage into mosques, are a major challenge for the system of values represented by the European Union, represented by the Western world. In the face of Turkish reform, the European Union took a number of decisions on Turkey at the last European Council. He rejected Turkey's tactics on the pretext of withdrawing the 'ORUC REIS'. He is now talking about the need for lasting de-escalation. It referred for the first time to sanctions in specific areas, such as trade and the economy. It referred to the prospect of extending the scope of the existing sanctions regime, a geographical extension, but also a thematic extension. He called, finally, for sanctions to be imposed on additional natural and legal persons involved in illegal drilling in the Eastern Mediterranean. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has never claimed that this is enough. The Mitsotakis Government has never claimed that we dictate to the other twenty-six Member States and they obey. There is a tough negotiation by the working parties, by the Ministerial Councils, by the European Council. If you want our opinion, we believe that there should be greater determination in taking decisions on Turkey. But we will continue to work hard, patiently, with perseverance. We explain to those who believe that Turkey should not be lost, as they say, that not taking measures is a message of encouragement to the non-pro-European, non-modernist part of Turkish society. On the other hand, taking measures is a message of encouragement to the pro-European and modernist part of Turkish society. If the current Turkish-salving policy is a success, then those in Turkey believe in the human values of peace and security, those in Turkey who believe in human rights and convergence with Europe remain united, are betrayed by Europe, their ideological homeland where Ataturk tried to bring them into line. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from bitterness and disappointment, justified or unjustified, Europe is our common home. He's beginning to realize, but he's late. He does, and sometimes he goes backwards. But Europe must face up to and realize its geopolitical responsibility. It must understand its responsibility for regional security and stability, for the security of all its citizens against external threats, for defending the rule of law and the European acquis, which is the foundation of this unique project in the history of humanity. I am not speaking only to you as Greek Foreign Minister. I am speaking to you as a dedicated citizen of Europe. The European Union was initially created to eliminate war from Europe. How can it appear that it tolerates the threat of war against members of the European family? If you want, whose armaments system is the footprint above the footprint of the defence of international law? I must point out that, while Europe is delaying, the United States seems to be more aware of their geopolitical burden on Turkey, especially in the critical armaments sector. As you know, this week, Congress approved by a large majority the bill providing for sanctions in Turkey within 30 days of the supply of the well-known S-400 system. Ladies and gentlemen, the time that comes is particularly critical. Foreign policy is not the ideal place for party controversy. The Mitsotakis Government and the Prime Minister are very serious, with the aim of creating national consensus through the continuous information of the parties and an honest exchange of views. In this way we will also go in 2020-2021, facing Turkish aggression and European hesitancy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, too, Minister. The floor has been asked for a minute by the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, Mr Denkia, I know that the Foreign Ministry has had in mind the principle of discussions within the European Council that, over the course of the autumn of this year, the issue of Turkey was a second fate for the European Council. Because in the first degree, which also appeared from his decisions, it was the recession and the financial means to deal with it. A lot of people in Greece pointed this out, with our article, with our speech in the House. Several scientists had written that it is indeed if one were to hear the Prime Minister understand that he, in the last few days, has been doing things that way. It was also known to those who know two things more about foreign policy that Libya's experience showed us that the imposition of mild sanctions or some sanctions, but not those that hurt Turkey, has little meaning for Turkish foreign policy and for President Erdogan, because in Libya he has shown that he despised these sanctions in the most clear and unequivocal way. So that's what we knew. I am asking myself a question, and that is why I am really asking you - not a rhetorically - whether or not I should also throw an opposition crown or some opposition gluttony - I really ask: why did the bar rise so much in terms of sanctions? In order for the government to pass under and the Greek people to collect it last Friday and as a defeat? Why? Because your MPs, especially those who appear in the media as transmigrants, are invited on their own, without analogy, because they have a speciality in their science - they have come up with the tone and have concluded that the 'Mitsotakis Government and the Mitsotakis Government', 'Kyriakos Mitsotakis', even if they were not transnationalists but Members of the New Democracy, which they really were. Why would the cubit get up so much? I don't understand why we all don't expect the same result? Why not know that for our country the hierarchy, at this time, even for the French, is the response to the recession? It gets a very difficult financial year, no matter what we say here in Parliament. All people who are private economy shareholders know that. Why would the cubit go up so much? This is a question mark concerning the Prime Minister, especially the Prime Minister, and as Foreign Minister you are asked to give an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u178	Madam President, I too would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u179	Please, Mr President, on the same subject for just one minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u180	Mr Dendia, you were here anyway in our previous speeches. I want to tell you that the economy, foreign policy, you know, are areas in which we all want to do well. We want our country to be financially lifted, we want to go well in the area of our foreign relations and we really have a heavy heart many times criticised or opposed with sadness, because we would really like to go better. I will not make any reference to the agreements you mentioned with Italy and Egypt, because it is a global patent to have a reduced EEZ and a reduced influence on our islands. After all, we have said so when these agreements were discussed at the National Representation. You have called on once again International Law - and you are doing well, this is the way - but you see that Turkey does not prove it in practice that it can hear International Law. I want to ask a question. Is it our feeling that we had higher expectations to create and cultivate before the long-awaited summit, or do we have the wrong impression? Because I remember, when the 'ORUC REIS' was launched in the summer of August, when the summer started, the 'ORUC REIS', we had set our hopes in December. In December, the summit came, we went with high expectations. So here I agree with the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, that we had put the bar too high and passed underneath? Because, seeing Erdogan's statements after the summit and the 'thank you' to the European Union and Mrs Merkel, I think it was clear who won and who, unfortunately, lost. So we said about December, now we are talking about March. I will repeat - and I would really like a comment from you - that we are occupied by a 'prostate syndrome' as foreign policy, we are always looking to have one to protect us from below, it is the European Union, America, International Law, that is all that we do not deny - look at - we do not say no, but we do not know whether that is enough. And one last thing about foreign policy. We had no expectation, Mr Dendia, that at a summit you would solve the Cypriot or Greek Turkish. We know where we are, we had no such expectations. We just want the denominator in every move in foreign policy to always be respected, our red lines and our national doctrine. Are these being observed? If it's up to us, let's move on. If not, maybe we should review and take it a little differently.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u182	I shall be very brief, Madam President, and thank you for the tolerance you have shown in my speech. Ladies and gentlemen, what I would like to keep from the two positions of the two Parliamentary representatives is the style and also the common understanding of the enormous difficulty of the project, the enormous difficulty that is needed to convince the twenty-six European states, in their entirety - because unanimity is required - to move towards the desired and right point, not only for Greece but for what is represented by the European structure. How I think, the party leaders, including my dear PASOK Parliamentary spokesman, know that. We have constant discussions, about once a month at least we are discussing them. So they know very well that the government and the Prime Minister had an absolute knowledge of where things were going. There was no illusion because they knew. If you ask me - I told you before - if we would like something better, of course we would like better. But we have not been surprised by the reactions we have experienced, and we have not even been surprised by the states that have expressed these reactions. We had them personalized a long time ago. All I would like to comment on is the position of Turkey. I am sorry to say that even with these conclusions, Turkey seems not to understand. I'm reading the announcement from the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Excuse me, I'll translate it to you later. It says, “We review the biased and illegal approach that has to be addressed with the EU Council Regulations of 10 December 2020, in particular on Cyprus, Eastern Mediterranean, Aegean and Regional issues.” I am translating: “We reject the biased and illegal approach adopted by the European Council on 10 December 2020.” I put it in the Minutes for you to have it. [[At this point, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Just to be informed, that is the Turkish answer. There is no expression of Turkish acceptance or even perception. And if you want, I do not say that with pleasure, I am sorry, it would have been better if Turkey understood. But that's the Turkish position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, too, Minister. We are now entering the ninth circle of speakers and speaker is the second Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Athanasios, MP of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, most international institutional actors, international economic and political journalism of prestige and international economic indicators also record that the implementation of our government policy, despite the adverse circumstances, has done so and continues to do well. For example, it was only announced last week that Greece was the first to absorb funds from the European Regional Development Fund. As soon as yesterday we received congratulations at a pan-European level, because we have already presented a plan to make use of the funds from the European Recovery Fund, while most of the countries still have not started its preparation. At the same time, the cost of borrowing our country and the upgrades of our worthy by international houses prove that, despite the current economic crisis, the fundamental sizes of our economy are in a very good condition. This shows the quality of the work of the government's financial staff. Despite the demagogy often unleashed by opposition and within the very negative framework of the global health and therefore economic crisis, all the evidence shows that the government has achieved a great deal in 2020. This has been achieved by a plan, with specific objectives and with emphasis on reforms, because the government of Mr Mitsotakis is not only content with hard work, but is moving on the basis of a coherent plan that emphasises what is added value to our country and our people. So in a series of legislation - already today for the budget is the forty-fourth second - we change attitudes of years and we give authority to the country, we abandon duplication in legislation and irresponsibility to administration. The country now operates in the contour, within normality, on a unified draft government policy. People who take into account the expertise of experts, such as the Pissaridis Committee, are visionary, planning and compiling a joint reform plan with specific milestones and measurable targets. This is what we have been seeking to do since the first day we have taken over the country's governance and are constantly trying to improve. So in a few months we have succeeded in bringing results in areas where the country was lagging behind, such as the continuous digitisation of the state and the doubling of the IFs. So we have brought much better results by reducing the tax and insurance burden on citizens and businesses and we have achieved a great deal in the midst of a global health crisis. In a number of institutional legislation we modernise the state and, in particular, the public administration. The law on the final state with bold, modern, and especially clear provisions modernises public administration from past strangles. I will not say that the relevant legislation solves all the evils of the administration. No, of course not. But the corrective actions that are deemed necessary by the staff of the Minister of State of Mr. Gerapetti are carried out. At the same time, the Ministry of Interior, under a series of legislations, contributes to modernising the public administration and already the new bill Takis Theodorikos has on the stools for how to recruit the public with pan-Hellenic examinations ensure transparency and integrity. So we can well claim to be founded in our own country on the rule of law in all its manifestations. I would like to refer a little bit to the Constitution, not in general, but to a provision that has been in the past few days which has, incidentally, been mentioned by the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Vitsas. It concerns Rule 62 on the waiver of immunity from Members' immunity. Look, ladies and gentlemen. The political world was conceived until the review that the Members of Parliament did not have the same penal treatment as the citizens, that is, we had a favourable treatment. This had to be stopped and this was done by Article 62, with only two exceptions: when the act for which the judge was being prosecuted was a consequence of the performance of his duties or of his political activity. I say this as President of the Committee on Parliament's Ethics. Therefore, we must be strict with ourselves and consistent with the citizens. We have not revised Rule 8 so that we do not apply it and the Members are not absent. Just a few words about immigration, very briefly. We have dealt with the migration crisis in the best possible way. The doctrine of SYRIZA's open borders and "the sea has no borders" by Mr. Tsipras was the reason to fill our islands with illegal immigrants. Our government, in a number of measures, and in particular the effective guarding of our borders in Evros and the Aegean Sea, as well as the speeding up of asylum procedures, have led to a great reduction in asylum seekers in the structures of our islands. They therefore have quite a lot of nerves in SYRIZA on our islands to claim that there should be no hosting structures for the identification of immigrants. On the one hand, immigrants must leave the islands and, on the other, welcome them. For this reason, the truth is that I put forward a relevant post with photos of SYRIZA and youth Members welcoming immigrants. [[At this point, the second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Charalambos Athanasios Athanasios, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A few words about Bankruptcy Law. The protection of the first residence provided by Law No.3869/2010 was abolished, ladies and gentlemen, in SYRIZA, and indeed in an act of legislation that was ratified by Law No. 4592/2019 with Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and Minister of Justice, the current director of his office, Michael Kalogerou. This provision of the SYRIZA lifts the protection of first residence for all applications under the Katseli Act submitted after 28 February 2019. So, instead of being SYRIZA's colleagues, you should explain to the public why and when the first home was protected. As regards, in particular, individual bankruptcy, the idea is both modern and absolutely philosophical because it enables the citizens who are found to be unable to respond to their accumulated debts, get rid of them and start a new start. The logic of the second chance for natural persons is found in many fair systems and is a tendency around the world precisely because it is faced with the issue of citizens' continued dependence on their previous debts. With the former regime, citizens continued to owe sums that they cannot repay after forced execution. So their property was lost, and debts to banks, suppliers, public, insurance funds remained. You say, Members of the SYRIZA, that these arrangements are made by our government because they are imposed by the European Union's demands. I'll read you something to see where you're right. I read: 'Our country is a country of Europe and the European Union. Consequently, the Greek Government’s policy is obliged to define and move in a direct manner to the conditions of such participation.’ Who says that? You, colleagues of SYRIZA. In March 2020 you issued the proposal of the SYRIZA Political Committee and made an account of your work. There are too many useful conclusions here. That's right, that's what he's saying, but stop that populism. A few words on the last issue that has been developed and I shall end, Madam President. There was a debate this morning by many of my fellow Members from the provinces. It concerns farmers and oil producers in the country. Listen to see, the EUR 126 million provided by the European Union as aid for the treatment of the koron virus, is given only to professional producers of oilseeds and not to all the owners of oilseeds who are engaged in other professional activity and have been strengthened or strengthened by other measures announced by the government, such as the employment allowance, the repayable advance and so on. The aid is intended to support those of our farmers whose main income comes from olive oil production and not to strengthen those who receive area support which are obviously far more than the main industrial producers. Watch out, this is the critical point. It would be a good thing if Mr Apostleou and Mr Arahovitis were here to confirm what I am about to say. As regards the criteria that determine the main farmer, Article 65 of L.4389/2016 by your government, colleagues of SYRIZA, which changed the applicable criteria by 2016. In particular, while the criteria were then that a person to be classified as a principal occupation had only 25% of his income to come from agricultural incomes, that is the law you do 50% and that is why this problem exists. Therefore, when the 2020 declarations on the incomes of 2019 that came from the coronary were made, the government was obliged to implement the law you had. And, of course, don't forget that the mobilisation of farmers at times also sought, that aid should be given only to professional farmers. Madam President, thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr Vice President. Mrs Malama has the floor now from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech on the 2021 budget and stand by a paradox of the text that the Treasury has put before us. At the time that we have three thousand dead from the pandemic, while in the past month over a thousand five hundred fellow humans died, while a hundred people die a day, the Treasury claims that the financial implications of the coronary would last for just a quarter in the next year, that is, after March 2021, everything will turn as magically into development. At the same time, we are a few days before Christmas with the market being closed, with the retail trade actually closed, with the focus being tightened up until further notice, and the Ministry of Finance submits a text which takes no account of it, but none of it. It presents a text of philosophical, wishing for a rapid recovery of the economy, but not realistic for what we need to wait for the new year. Health and that remains in this budget the great patient in the country. The Minister for Finance told us that, although health expenditure on the state budget does not increase, it is increasing through general government expenditure. What does that mean, so people can understand? That the government does not intend to permanently and structurally strengthen the health system, but to spend some money on the reserves and loans to provide temporary relief for a few health needs. Indeed, as the financial staff told us, this is so that the players in the international economy do not see the costs of matters relating to the social state very clearly. In practice, this means that the government does not plan for 2021 health simulations, does not plan to strengthen hospital infrastructure and health care centres, does not plan massive tests on the Greek population to get out of this disastrous quarantine at some point. You're just saying, by magic in March, this whole thing will end and we'll go out to the clearing of development. Therefore, the budget you are tabling today has no credibility and that will turn you backwards. The twin deficits are expected to bolt in 2021. Unemployment will be exacerbated rapidly, public debt will be launched, private debt will rise and red loans will rise to unprecedented heights. These are all trying to hide them under the carpet, to silence them from the public debate and to present an image of utopian which, however, is disguised daily and painful in practice. There are companies that have been closed since March and have not yet been opened. There are workers whose objects have disappeared completely and you insist on stunning a situation and presenting a different picture. At the same time you are planning the next Memorandum you want to appear as a supposed recovery plan. You brought us the release of the auctions through the new bankruptcy code. You are bringing about the degradation of the social security system. You are bringing disastrous provisions for strategic productive sectors of the economy, such as energy and the environment. You are bringing the privatisation of strategic infrastructure, such as Egnatia, and all this at a pandemic time, which everyone knows that in such situations the sale will become very wild. So, a budget for the show? And then what? A memorial at the end of the runway! As far as northern Greece is concerned - it is tested very hard with your provisions and plans - you will step up this development gap between the north and the south. Dissolve PPC in Western Macedonia! What plan, gentlemen? Development of photovoltaic panels? And who's gonna work on these? How will the energy deficit be covered? Obviously with the introduction of energy and unemployment for western Macedonia and a deficit in the country's trade balance. At the same time push Macedonia and Thrace as a whole into a development gap. You are talking about strategic investments which, however, concern the divestment of infrastructure and natural resources. You want mines, you want concessions of ports, roads, but you do not want small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. You do not want to promote cultural resources. You do not want stable, safe and sustainable tourist development. This seems to be through this budget. It also appears from the fact that you leave the sector of Macedonia - Thrace of the Ministry of Interior outside of all your design for northern Greece. You give a million euros to the State Secretary of Macedonia - Thrace for development in 2021! Do you consider that a serious attitude? You leave the most hubial, developmental factor in northern Greece without object and are you triumphing already? In this famous Pissaridis project, which you move as a gospel, you have no provision for the spatial dimension of development in northern Greece. We in our alternative plan propose a special development line for northern Greece through the Ministry of Macedonia and Thrace of EUR 200 million from the European Recovery Fund. The aim of this money is to promote and move to every county from the twelve Macedonian and Thrace to a large project of development and investment, with emphasis on culture, tourism and solely small and medium-sized enterprises. We want investments that produce wealth and which reach the family of the businessman, the worker and not the funds. We want the HORIH to do its part, which is the development and stimulus of northern Greece with its real strategic advantages, which are the environment, monuments and culture, to create jobs in small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, and to leave a genuinely social and developmental footprint so that northern Greece can escape from the trap of the recession in which you have literally thrown it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u187	Thank you too, my colleague. Now Mrs Helena Rapt has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u188	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think there has been - at least in the years of my parliamentary life - a budget with more challenges than the one we are discussing. The 2021 budget has to respond to a pandemic environment, the largest pandemic in the last 100 years that has been testing the societies, economies and health systems of all states. It is also called upon to respond to a liquidity environment, which has already led to a global recession and to make difficult estimates of the size of the damage. And as far as our country is concerned, however, it is called upon to handle additional challenges which also have economic dimensions, such as tension in the south-eastern Mediterranean, migration flows and natural disasters. So no one can argue that this is a difficult exercise. And, of course, the same difficulty exists for the budgets of all the countries of the European Union. I rush to say these things not because they are not known, but because I am surprised to hear the criticism of the Vice-Presidents and, above all, of the SYRIZA. And, indeed, I wonder whether they are critical of parliamentary practice or why they see something other than reality, the same ones who have failed in all their predictions in normality. But let us see the picture of the new budget on a few lines. The first conclusion is realism of the budget. It builds on the successes of last year's economic policy, sets targets possible, promotes growth, investment, social justice and recompense and promotes the reforms needed for the next day. Central objective: to keep the country upright, society upright, entrepreneurship upright and to be able to launch for recovery quickly and to develop shared among all. Obviously, I don't need to remind everyone that even in the middle of a pandemic foreign houses are upgrading Greece, nor do I remind everyone that for the first time since 2007, in the second half of 2019, we have developed higher than Europe's average, nor have we repeatedly received credit for the way in which the crisis is managed, nor of course that the country's borrowing costs have been reduced to historically low levels. What is only petty is that, at the time of these successes, the opposition has broken its criticism and murmured its displeasure that the government is building a country that is resistant. And how does he look like he can handle it? It's simple. What does the EUROSTAT report say to us? It tells us that Greece ranks among the countries with the lowest job losses due to the health crisis. What does the European Commission intend to do? That Greece is expected to achieve the second largest reduction in the unemployment rate in 2021 between the European Member States. It is a general view that the economic and social policies of this government have created the 'antibodies' that allow us to manage the crisis and to recover quickly. And that's sure it'll look pretty fast. How would we characterise the budget as a whole? Realistic, because it sets targets that are effective even at this juncture. Development, since it includes measures and policies that increase development horizontally throughout society. Philo-investment, because it completes investments that greed and opens the way to the new investments that the country needs. Reformist because it promotes major reforms in all sectors of the economy and society. Flexible to be able to support society and absorb the consequences of the health crisis and social law for workers, businesses and households. Time, unfortunately, does not allow me to refer to the dozens of reforms that change Greece, nor to the dozens of measures to tackle the pandemic. Besides, they know millions of Greeks benefiting, households, workers, businesses. I will say, however, that measures to address the impact of the pandemic only for 2021 amount to EUR 7.5 billion. The total amount of assistance is EUR 31 billion. This is the proof of a government that supports Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek society has long felt that it has a strong government, with its immediate reflexes, with rapid decisions, with policies that are directly implemented, a government that is next to it. For the first time, Greece has such strong economic diplomacy, which is personally exercised by the Prime Minister, which gives prestige to the country and paves the way for foreign investment in Greece. The country's budget is the proof of a government living in society, which looks at all sides at the same time: growth and investment, tax reduction, better paid jobs, strengthening our national defence, upgrading education, protection of vulnerable groups, investing in public health. With this budget and with the economic policies of the government, we have again made our partners, investors, Greeks and foreigners, rating houses and markets trust us. I am voting in favour of this budget and I ask you to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u189	Thank you too, my colleague. Mr. Beagis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u190	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam President, before I begin my speech, I should just like to say a word on the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Regional Policy of the Government, Yiannis Plackatotakis. As Head of Maritime and Island Policy, I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, if you are kind, to convey our warmest wishes for a quick return to his duties and to his family. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the year that passed left an indelible mark both in our country and in all mankind. The pandemic swept through and still scans everything in its path, leaving its mark on humanity. Our country could not be an exception. Thousands of fellow humans are giving us battle daily with death, thousands are the hospitals who are tested in intensive and hospitals, thousands are the businesses and workers who are unable to meet their daily needs. In this crisis, not only the resistance of the public health system is tested, not just the reflexes of the government are tested, it is not just the financial adequacy of the State. The man, our identity, our social life, our mental reserves are tested first and foremost. The pandemic is not just a scientific and healthal phenomenon, but a natural disaster. It is high time we accepted that pandemic will change our way of being. Now, then, we all have to start the enormous difficulty that will lead to our decision on the form that new normality will take after all that we have experienced. And this new normality - let me - can only start and end in man and his needs, redefinite our choices and priorities as a state, as a state, as an entity. Ladies and gentlemen, before I go to the budget of the economy, I would like to refer to the New Democracy Government's statement. 2020 was a year that unravelled your political figure at all levels. And I'll explain right now what I mean. So by making a historical retrogression, in March 2020, the country was faced with the pandemic crisis and in the country the so-called ‘general ban’ or ‘lockdown’ was imposed. Despite the three months of inertia, society and the economy tried to keep alive on very meteorological, asymmetrical threads and balances. In the island regions, thousands of people have faced biopolitics problems. But everyone was serious and responsible to the enemy of the pandemic, with carotidity and determination. But you, on the other hand, have acted as a government of responsibilities in the face of objective, practical, everyday problems among citizens and, above all, islands. You acted like a government of "seeing and doing", as a government of everyday life, without any care and planning to ensure the survival of citizens, without any substantial plans for the next day. Your fear and refusal to incorporate in the treatment of this pandemic the local communities themselves, the primary and secondary self-government bodies, but also all those who played a decisive role both during the first wave of the pandemic and during the period of the monuments' crisis, led you to impose universal and horizontal measures, unreasonably many times - let me say - while bypassing any geographical conditions and peculiarities, peculiarities and conditions that you could use them. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] From the rule of the New Democracy, the concept of islands is completely absent, as has always been the case with right-wing policies. There is also a lack of anything anticipated and imposed by the Constitution to safeguard, defend, peculiarity of our islands. There has been no provision during your entire administration to provide for, and at the same time to alleviate the disparities between mainland and island Greece, at work, at the health level - which we so needed - and support for local society and the economy. You have opened up tourism, without imposing minimum health standards, without the provision of rapid tests even on a wide scale, declaring that the health structures of the islands, health centres, do not have enough medical and nursing staff and do not have a large number of beds. You have not even introduced incentives for medical staff to fill the vacant posts that exist in these health structures. And where you did so - because you did so too - you did so with an amendment in the middle of the night and did so only in order to serve your party interests. But the most unfavourable thing is that you turned your back on tourism, you turned your back on the man who experienced unemployment in his line. Each Greek islander had experienced the disastrous consequences of the pandemic, the so-called "caratina of the economy" almost exclusively. Greece has experienced it in the most ugly, unfair and unequal way, where unemployment and underemployment indicators are at unthinkable heights. So what did you do? Instead of ensuring that work is strengthened in island and isolated areas, for the full support of the tourism industry, for the creation of a new tourism product with quality characteristics that we now need and which we need to ensure social cohesion, whatever liquidity aid has been disbursed, distributed by the Government horizontally to all businesses, again ignoring the condition of islandity. Ladies and gentlemen, the government through the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy must plan and develop solutions, particularly in the middle of crises. It is now obvious and evident that the logic of day-to-day management of the issues of the Ministry and of the syndicate logic you are following is no use to the country and deadlocks to the citizens. There is now a deep and deep change in policy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In the budget that we are debating today, in addition to the major imbalances between needs and expenditure, there is absolutely no overall plan for maritime and island policy. Therefore, no references to work, to the islands and nowhere to ensure social cohesion. No reason for the transport equivalent that only 2020 was in the range of EUR 122 million. No planning of a pilot shipping policy. Mr Ministers, it is our duty and duty to support islanders and island Greece. First and foremost, above all, it requires the reintroduction of the tax system and the introduction of the special VAT - and I stress, ladies and gentlemen, the whole of our islands. They need it now. It's a one-way road. For the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, a total of 140 million have been entered which is marginally sufficient to cover the corresponding barren lines, which the Minister is expected to reach in 2021 of EUR 130 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u191	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, we must show our true self in island Greece. We need a different policy, a policy that we had a duty in recent years because of the pandemic has emerged as such. We must support the island policy, each from its side. In conclusion, Mr President, I should like to thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance - and I would like to say that as a genuine expression of the democratic and progressive party, which has the honour of bringing the heritage of PASOK and of the work of its governments over the years in which they have been strengthened - and, among other things, the islands and islands policies and institutions, but also in practice, I cannot consent to a budget which does not contain any more specific financial references and forecasts for the region. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, neither the figures nor the people are prospering for you anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Biaghy. Mr Constantine Bogdanos, Member of the New Democracy in 1st Athens, has the floor. Mr. Burnus will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, what do we need the state? We need it first of all to ensure national integrity and independence, freedom of citizens and the exercise of our democratic rights. We also need it so that it responds directly, effectively to exceptional and critical circumstances, such as the ones we live in, to coordinate the joint effort where necessary and to guarantee that all citizens, without exception, will have access to the necessary for life, health and well-being of goods and services. We need the state to compose, formulate, serve, finally, the long-term - which must employ society - with responsibility, effectively, with a national plan. These three main tasks of the state, national security, crisis management and long-term planning have emerged, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in the year we are in the clearest sense and reflected in the actions undertaken by this government, but also in the forecasts of the 2021 flag budget that we are discussing today. As far as the pillars of national security are concerned, Greece has made clear in all directions its determination to defend national laws and interests dynamically. We do not forget - although we would like to do so, but we should not - that the previous government was asking the former Prime Minister whether the sea has borders and on land did the wrong thing in the face of the spiral of hundreds of thousands or millions of illegal immigrants who have passed - fortunately, not all of them - from here. And since I realise that the word 'lathronist' concerns, despite the fact that it is a very precise word, I would like to ask you very much - and I particularly address my dear colleagues and my dear colleagues on the Left - to table in the Minutes the conclusion of the 1993 parliamentary committee. The Greek Parliament of 1993 signifies - and Manolis Drettakis, then MP with the Coalition - the 1993 conclusion, where all parties of the Greek Parliament are not afraid or ashamed to refer to the term "lathonian" and "lathon immigration". This is very interesting, which we all agreed on in '93. I'll testify. It's good to look at this. At the same time, the Government of the New Democracy, which we are talking about on land and sea, defends them forcefully and within the crisis we are equiping ourselves, we are significantly strengthened. And as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, I will say that you did not vote for MDSA with the United States, the maintenance of Miraz, the upgrading of F-16, the defence agreement with Israel, which will probably also bring corvettes, heavy torpedoes. You're not voting for them. Vote for these 2.5 billions, which are so necessary to upgrade the country's armour. Now, at the health level - this extraordinary treaty, we are taking every measure to limit the spread of the virus, to strengthen the national health system. We will hand over a National Health System infinitely better than we had at the beginning of the crisis, also supporting those affected, constantly enriching the patronage of actions, listening to scientists, social groups and responding to this difficult equation. Within a few days EUR 1.5 billion has fallen on the market following the EUR 7.5 billion, which has fallen over the last few weeks financially. And with a programme of emergency support for society and the economy, which will reach EUR 24 billion for the beginning in 2021, the valuable breaths are provided to help us get out of this adventure. In the long term planning, the new reality of pandemic doesn't point us. The government is not responsible for the express commitments it has made to citizens. No new taxes in 2020, no new taxes in 2021! On the other hand, the burden of taxes and contributions from households and businesses are constantly being eliminated. Significant steps have been taken to resolve the problem of red loans, to liberate many thousands of households from this hostage. They go on, big public investment is being implemented, the digital revolution in the state, the planning for a better health system, for a better national education system. All of this - anyway - is only our minimum obligations to the heroes of this period, which are Greeks and Greeks, without any form of separatism. Ladies and gentlemen, the Opposition and especially the Dedicate - miserable, unfortunately - perhaps having something else to say, resort to known tricks, unbundling of promises, hoping that the citizens have a short memory and that they forget disastrous performance, but also all the times that has failed their commitments. The Qualified Opposition is based on the alleged argument that the crisis does not allow precise imprintation of the figures, noting that despite the crisis, the Government of New Democracy and Mr.Mitsotakis has restored the country's international credibility. However, the worst of all - and here I am going to pay very close attention to my words - is that the Critical Opposition is flirting with the use of the pandemic. It does not explain how a political force, which states that it is interested in addressing this huge, unprecedented global problem in our country, at the same time encourages synagogues and anniversary demonstrations or gatherings - in violation of the precautionary measures - in the proper formal ruling on the Golden Dawn, the anniversary of the Polytechnic insurrection, in the anniversary of Alexis Gregopoulou's murder. Sadly - and I close - for the Acoustic Opposition and for all those who are against the joint effort, but thankfully for the country and society, the vast majority of Greeks are making our cross that we currently have New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis and not - attention, not SYRIZA! - SYRIZA - ANEL. To finish, therefore, the Greeks and Greeks, partners and lenders, international bodies and organisations, large companies preparing for investment in the country, the valid foreign press, the course of the Exchange gives a very difficult vote of confidence to the government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This is because - I conclude and thank you - consistently and responsibly succeeds where the former have failed, in guaranteeing national security, in managing emergency, in designing a better future for the country and the people. Ladies and gentlemen, Sweden is at the thresholds, Germany has announced a general lockdown, England is heading to a third-party closure, Europe is horroring and is also flirting with its decomposition, unfortunately, in the face of the rising danger. We are holding, fighting vigorously and successfully on all fronts, taking care of everyone in difficult conditions and voting today in the 2021 budget, to continue with force, with ammunition, with wisdom. Why? Because that is simply our duty and this faction of duty has never retreated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr Bogdano. And we're going to SYRIZA, Mr. Ioannis Burnus, from beautiful Lesvos. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. I remember a year ago in my speech about your first budget for your government, which was described as'maritime learners', referring to the neoliberal and multiplier president of Argentina, who shared the same anti-social obsessions with you and prevented it from falling back on those days - because it fell on foot - to send Argentina back to bankruptcy and the International Monetary Fund. You had then drawn up a budget - a mirror of your neoliberal dogmatism, which provided unfavourable developments for society and the economy and reversed the positive and upward trends that you received from the SYRIZA government. At first sight, no one would say we didn't fall out. On the other hand, we have fallen out too much, because even we have not expected such a recital of incompetence, foolishness, greed for public money and ideological disrespect for public goods so quickly. We did not expect that you would show such provocative indifference for whole categories of workers, such as in culture, or that you dare even in the midst of health and economic destruction, which you, with your policy, are stepping up, working on ways to close the small and medium-sized enterprises - which you now call them "jobs" and "bottoms" - for the benefit of stores and large groups and to clear their properties for the benefit of foreign funds. You failed to manage the pandemic. We have three thousand deaths over a month, we have one of the worst deaths per population in the second wave, and we quickly upload the list of countries with total deaths, not only because you have no interest in making the slightest reinforcement of the health system, but you have not even been able to monitor the pandemic seriously to prevent the worst. Your ideas led you to choose the support of private interests instead of the National Health System. You failed to manage the economy. Our country has the worst material results in the European Union. We have the second worst performance in the recession in the third quarter of 2020. No surprise, of course! We in the last budget that we submitted when we were government had predicted both reductions in taxes and increases in expenditure. You have stubbornly failed foreign policy. You became Erdogan's laughter. You did not have the elementary adequacy to continue from where Alexis Tsipras left it at the June 2019 summit and from irresponsible and criminal proceedings go from surprise to defeat. You are already bored by the "hidden" of a Greek shelf. None of the previous Greek Government had allowed this. You have reached Greek foreign policy hopelessly and you are pretending to be taking steps forward. And I listened carefully to Mr. Treasury's position. Dialingualism again in relation to the Government Representative and the Prime Minister himself and no talk beyond a report of ideas on foreign policy on the substance of your defeat at the European Council, sanctions on natural and legal persons only for illegal activity, on illegal drilling within the Cypriot EEZ. No talk of what's going on in the Aegean! No word about the six miles from Rhodes and the four miles from Kastelorizo! No thought but a general discussion about the utilization of tools and "we will see it in March" and therefore close the eye in Turkey that until March it may be undisturbed to continue the investigations, even west of the 28th of November, which is some Greek EEZ from the Greek Egyptian Agreement. That's your balimento! The members of this government suffer from a lack of consciousness of the drama experienced by the people and lead the country to a constant crisis of social cohesion, with a rapid decline in incomes, an increase in unemployment, an increase in the 'lunkets' in businesses and a rapid increase in social inequalities. You are voting for a virtual, fake, but also a challenging budget since, in the midst of a pandemic and economic crisis, you are reducing public health expenditure and anticipating increased revenues from citizens' taxation, even though you know very well that "no slaves than they have". And in this budget it is obvious that the government's inability to present a vision and a development plan for island Greece. It may not, of course, be a weakness, but an organized degrading plan for our islands to undo any role that the government reserves to serve its policy. In Lesvos, we understand the role you reserve us, to become a storeroom for souls and smugglers for the influx of refugees. And for those who deny the role of expatriate in the degradation of our island, there you are keeping us from the brutal repression of Mr. Chrysochoidis. You have also shown us your intentions with the rejection of almost half the eligible applications for the LEADER programme concerning Lesvos, when the average acceptance for the territory was much higher. Disappear one of the few tools even some small investments in our area because it seems that Lesvos eventually and the islands of the northeastern Aegean are only offered for the Immigration and Asylum Ministry's bishops. They offer for the government to share in “loan” EUR 6.2 million in consultative services for the contracts of the new GPA, half a million for Mr Stefani's aphrodium, several million for the fictitious feeding of refugees in Moria, while another 20 million will be provided with a speedy, competitive procedure to put - says - WIFI on the structures of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum. The islands for you are therefore offered 'jobs' without any reward for islanders. You are not seeking to develop them, but instead you are working on converting the islands of the northern Aegean to islands - prisons, loyally following the story of the 'European shield', without any consensus from the inhabitants of the islands. And I heard Mr Athanasios throwing them back to SYRIZA. I would like to remind him that we delivered Lesvos with five thousand six hundred eighty-sixty refugees and migrants in Moria and, in total, under seven thousand on his island and on his government today, with zero flows due mainly to the international pandemic and hence the closure of borders, we in Lesvos of nine thousand five hundred asylum seekers, whom you have said that by March you will make a thousand five hundred - Mr Chrysochide - I think - but now you want to build camp for at least five thousand and you think that by signing Memorandums of Cooperation with the European Commission this camp will be done. You're laughed. You forget February very easily. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The government's development model bankrupt the country. However, you insist on the same model. You are now talking about the Recovery Fund that will cover the entire European Union of four hundred and fifty million people, when the United States, with a smaller population, anticipated over 2 trillion in 2020, with funds that will come slowly, which will be almost half of all loans, while planning their distribution to the 'locals' on the basis of the Pissaridis project. What will small and medium-sized people see? Thousands of louket. There is a storm of recession and unemployment, of bankruptcy and you are counting, to save yourself, in vaccines, and so far you have not even known how to price, prescribe the tests, organize a reliable system for recording and tracing to get a picture. The only hope for our people is the change of your model, fair growth with a strong and effective social state, investment in work, new jobs, respect for labour rights, technology and innovation. Only hope for our people to send the Pissaridis where they deserve them. The government of Mr Mitsotakis is already recording unprecedented universal failure and is burdened with criminal errors and omissions. We continue to fight so that the merciless, ideality and inability of Mr Mitsotakis does not cost us any more in the lives of our people, the economic survival of our people, the sovereign rights of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, too. Here, Mr Athanasios, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, I asked for the floor because this is a personal matter, not on the basis of the basic provision that the honourable Member's behaviour was inappropriate, but on the point of altering the content, in accordance with Rule 68. Mr Burnus, I said - and I do not deny it again - about the international obligations of the country which come from the three conventions, namely the Geneva Convention, the Dublin Protocol, and the Convention, the special declaration signed by the European Union with Turkey, which you have brought it, you have accepted it, and which, in paragraph 3, clearly states that those who enter the country, of course, must be identified in accordance with the Geneva Treaty, but the declaration is identified in the first entry, that is to say in the islands. You accepted it. What do you want - so far, you have been talking about open borders - not having a reception and identification centre? What's your proposal? Get out of here? Yes, sir. Go where? If it is not for anyone seeking asylum to enter international protection, tell us what must be done. What is the SYRIZA's position, anyway, to have centers there or not? You say it's a humanitarian matter. Of course it is humanitarian, and that is why we are making this reception and identification centre, which is modern, human conditions, and we need the rough camp that is in the urban fabric of the city of Mytilini to be transported next to. What's your position? Where should they go? And in any case, don't tell us that they came to the emergency events in the summer. They did. Yes, but what infrastructure did you have so that they could be absorbed? On your day alone in 2015, Mr President - only in 2015, take note - only five hundred and twenty-four thousand refugees and immigrants have passed from Mytilini. And now that SYRIZA wants to get out of here for immigration! Isn't it enough that you destroyed our islands?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u199	Of course, Mr Burnus only referred to the numbers, that was his objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u200	Mr President, please speak. He mentioned my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u201	No, we're not taking it like this now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u202	He referred to me. My name has been invoked, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u203	Then they'll have to answer, Mr. Burnus. And we have a budget, we don't have Greek-Turkish. The Minister of Tourism, Mr. Theocharis, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u204	Thank you very much, Mr President. Indeed, the speech of the previous speaker is a typical example of the criticism that the country has been listening to all this time from Opposition and does not even need an answer. Full distance from reality, these kinds of statements are the best ally of the Government and the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, when for four years every October and November we had a waiting list at the ICUs and this year in the middle of a pandemic, with the funds of the Ministry of Finance, with the planning of the Ministry of Health that the ICUs have not filled. There are limits! Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a budget after an unprecedented year, a budget of responsibility, consistency and wisdom, a budget of support for the weak, but also a relaunch of the economy, a budget of visionary realism. We come from a year when we began with the best omens - I recall that only in tourism we started in the first two months with 23% increase - all of us had to change our lines, face the unprecedented crisis, take our true self out and in front of the Greek people was faced with the government's responsibility with the populism of Anti-Population. Just imagine it was backwards. Imagine having the pandemic in 2018. The answer is given by every Greek citizen alone. Ladies and gentlemen, we are even hearing a pointless criticism, particularly in tourism. But in tourism we have achieved all the objectives we have set ourselves. Firstly, the opening up of Greek tourism. We worked together: With the infectologists for protocols. With the training agencies. With the U.N.A., the Hotel Chamber, for the certification. With the Ministry of Health for the health coverage of all destinations, especially the islands. With EVO, for a continuous test in the tourist industry. With the Political Protection and the EAFRD on border controls. With the team of data scientists and the Department of Digital Governance for forming and targeting the tests, with the unique EVA system, which more than doubled the effectiveness of our tests. With hotel owners, to have a network of isolation hotels that allowed us to open Greek tourism. All this was necessary to open up tourism. Second target. Safety, with exemplary application of the protocols to tourism, better than any other sector of the Greek economy, without a charge of the ESS in summer, without positive cases to hotel employees and without complaints or bad experiences. Third target. Enhancing the image of our country's brand, in presence everywhere in international media, with exemplary EOT campaigns, such as "Greece From Home", "Destination Greece Health First", "Endless Greece Summer", and "Greece 4: For You". Never have so many campaigns been made in such a short time. Finally, we have not forgotten the strategic objectives. We opened the cruise from the first countries, no cases, no problems. The expansion of the season, the international initiatives within the European Union and the World Tourism Organisation, were our constant efforts. We have strengthened domestic tourism with unprecedented funds - we must also thank the Minister of Finance for this decision - and for the first time with travel agencies. Ladies and gentlemen, irresponsibility has its limits. In your thoughts alone, they are your scales: and we have not prevented the recession and the pandemic has escaped us. This debate must end, because it is dangerous to the international image of the country. You didn't dare attack Greek tourism or 2012, when you swore and pre-collected. You do it now that Greek as well as world tourism go through the worst crisis in their history. The facts, however, disprove your irresponsibility. If the situation had escaped, we would not be one of the best countries in Europe. If it were the tourism for the second wave of the pandemic, then that would be in August. If it were to be tourists, it would be red in the islands and not northern Greece, unless all of Kosani went to the islands or was congratulated with tourists and returned. Funny review! If we were to be saved by the closed borders, then how did Israel with a closed border reach ten thousand cases with nine million inhabitants? In all countries, cases are linked to internal mobility. With your proposal for 700 million domestic tourism, in July we would have more than a thousand cases. In any case, against your efforts, against the country's defamation efforts, the country is being awarded. It may not fit your account and the tale you make, but these prizes exist. We are the fifth country on the world ranking in the study 'IPSOS' for brand countries. The magazine "MONOCLE" covers the Greek flag in front of the soft power and the image of our country. ‘AEGEAN’ is in the first five minutes for the safest airlines worldwide and the ‘Eleftherios Venizelos’ respectively at the most secure airports. In the international awards "World Tourism Awards" five Greek companies are the best in the world and for the first time, the Ministry of Tourism and the EOT are the best tourist operators in the world. Fortunately, you are no longer criticising the numbers, because you had 'Waterloo' with the 3 billion that we would not catch. Now we're approaching four billion, and I think we're going to get through it. With the opening of Greek tourism, this year's recession is less than 5%, along with the multiplier effects. This money is food on the plate of tourist workers and their families. We don't have the margin, the luxury of leaving them. Ladies and gentlemen, whatever we have achieved, we have great challenges ahead of us. Vaccination and rapid tests are changing the data. In the new year we will be able to welcome people vaccinated with less suffering and without procedures like quarantines and multiple tests. With fast tests we can welcome more people with more security. We are working intensively at international level for this, because all this requires international understanding. However, competition will be ruthless both in prices and in the services offered. That's why we already started. The EOT has already launched a new campaign for the first time with a creative competition and not just an implementation competition. The foreign offices are working on the co-advertising. And finally, we're going to move into advertising all year. We cannot say that we are the destination of 12 months and we cannot be advertised for 12 months. We also strengthen digital tools with the new 'Visit Greece' site from the first months of the new year and strengthen mobile application. For the first time this year, our country acquired the 'Visit Greece' on mobiles with huge success. Almost five hundred thousand people took this application. As far as markets are concerned, apart from the already known, we will be targeting high-cost travellers, as we have done this year, and that is why we have had a significant increase in average per capita expenditure this year. And of course, we will, even with difficulties, open up the most distant countries. We will continue to support domestic tourism by extending the "Tourism for All" programme and in 2021. With new initiatives, for the first time, we create the framework for regional development with the management and promotion of destinations, establishing for the first time the 'clusters' for cooperation between the private and public sectors, with a view to quality and strategy in the development process. We are also making use of the hypnotic potential of the country's thermal resources with a specialised operator to exploit them. This is an area that can produce results in tourism throughout the year. Gastronomy, well-being tourism and the new marina framework will follow. And we won't stop here. The resources of the Recovery Fund will activate specific actions for mountain, marine, gastronomic and accessible tourism. Education, codification of legislation, digitization of the Ministry's procedures will complement our initiatives. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, until the stage of the pandemic changed the whole world, with the Government of the New Democracy under Kyriakos Mitsotakis Greece had taken great steps. He had entered the tracks of growth and transformation. In less than six months, reforms had been made that investors had waited for years. In the pandemic, our country increased its prestige. The upgraded prestige of Greece is not only an abstract and symbolic concept, but is even valued in economic terms. Our country has received a privileged share of the resources for the Recovery Fund. We pulled Greece out of the anomaly of the 'black sheep'. The confidence and seriousness we have gained for our country is reflected, among other things, in the assessments of international houses. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has vision, plan and will, but also the stock of potential to do so. The vision is clearly development: development, sustainability, modernisation and digital integration, abolition of social exclusion and equality. In 2021, two hundred years since the Revolution, Greece is re-established in the global community. It is Greece in which you deserve to live, Greece in which you deserve to work, the Greece you deserve to visit, because it is based on quality, quality in products, quality in people, quality in businesses, and from mid 2019 onwards, quality in governance. It is Greece that with optimism and national self-confidence it is moving forward and is built in time and with this budget, which I invite you to vote in favour of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u205	Thank you very much, Mr Theochari. At this point and until the Step is cleared, I would like to inform you that three interventions have been requested. One is from the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Heta. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President. We hoped that during a budget debate, in a particular case, the truth, Mr Theocharis, period and year with so many unforeseen events, would have had a sense of self-criticism. It is a little inconceivable, you know, to come - not only you, but most of the ministers of government - in this Chamber in the form my country presents right now and celebrate. I would expect to hear the Minister of Tourism today do his self-criticism, say "We made two or three mistakes" and not celebrate and say "we did it perfectly"! You used the wrong algorithm, Mr. Theochari, the JAVA you're talking about. It's the wrong algorithm. We don't. It is from the Press Release of the Hellenic Association of Informatics. They said: “It is without a central administrative procedure. No full scientific work has been published, not even pre-published. No specific efficacy criterion has been applied. No guarantee exists for the effectiveness of the algorithm, no published assessment exists since its implementation in Greece in June 2020.’ What does that mean? The government has chosen an operational plan that had no scientific evaluation. Absolutely nothing! He was driving blindly. With the wrong algorithm? Instead of saying "sorry" about this, instead of saying "sorry" that you opened the border in northern Greece - in Thessaloniki I am - for the sake of "TUI"? Can't we just open up? And they went in without any control of all the Balkans and we paid for it in the next few months in northern Greece. For Christ's sake! And you don't believe us? The forecasts of the International Air Transport Association, passenger traffic has decreased by 76% in 2020, compared with 2019. We are talking about 70%, the highest of Europe's average! Two hundred and eighty-five thousand jobs are in danger. It's the International Air Transport Association, IATA. The total blow to GDP is EUR 80.4 billion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And this is where we say, Mr President, it is wrong - that is what we said in our report the other day - a country, like Greece, only supports the heavy industry, as you say, tourism. It is wrong that 20% -25% of GDP is based on tourist revenues, because with the first turn as it is now, the country is falling apart. So it is good at least not to cause the popular feeling and to have a self-criticism, to ask for any apologies in this desert from the world. We can't celebrate everything will be perfect - I wish it would go perfectly! - when only seasonal employees in tourism, all these people who work, thousands of people who are unemployed and many of them will be unemployed. But here I have given you two, three elements, Mr Theocharis, and I would like you to reply to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. Heta. Mr. Syriza has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, he wants a great deal of courage to say about the Opposition that he attacks Greek tourism when you in fact proved to be his greatest undermining. You need to answer why there were no single health protocols, depending on how to increase tourists in the country and you did so just now. Why? Why else was the protocol if you came by road, another airline, another ferry? Have you considered how much damage was done for the sake of these poor revenues in tourism for the year? Because the contracts are now being closed. Now our country is not going well to health, as you say. He's been first in death in the last month per 100 thousand people. And you come here and you say you're successful because they were well paid and the advertising campaigns had great aesthetics? These questions are relentless. Why have you not adopted a strong domestic social tourism programme, not what was available from the OAED for a few thousand, but that there are 'voucher's' for Greek families to go four, five days with a subsidy, so that it can operate a bit of small units? All this didn't even cross your mind. Great idealism, great words, all for the sight! Please, you must be more restrained when you speak in this country, after these results, about tourism!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Skourlet. The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Angeliki Adamopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u210	Thank you very much, Mr President. The celebrations and the triumph of the government and the Minister in relation to the safe opening of tourism have been disproved even by pro-government instruments, which in May said that the opening of tourism would take place without massive tests and without quarantine to tourists. Perhaps we are the only country in Europe that has opened up tourism, without really taking necessary measures, such as carrying out mass tests or giving tourists a negative test result. And you told us about the effectiveness of a algorithm, whose scientific credibility the Association of Informatics of Greece, which states that this algorithm has no scientific evidence, there is no evidence available, no scientific journal, but that at the end of the day the Greek citizens have become experimental animals of this algorithm, on the basis of which, ultimately, the tests carried out were sampling. So we come to this day and see an uncontrolled situation, an uncontrolled increase in cases and an epidemiological picture, which is even wide open, because you have been asked to publish the analytical epidemiological data of the EGE and these are not available, as the Union says. Finally, I would like to refer to the IMPs. Because you said they weren't filled, I'll tell you that only in AHEPA is complete forty-three in forty-three intensive care units, in Hippocrates twenty-five in twenty-five. And if everything goes well, why did the Hospital Doctors' Association file a press report against the Government on its criminal frustration and indifference? Let's finally stop the make news! Let this distortion stop! At last, yes, let the government assume its political responsibility. To make a self-criticism and apologise for the completely failed management of the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u211	Thank you very much, Mrs Adamopoulou. Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much, Mr President. Where they owed us, they take the ox! The opposition must also stop making this unbearable criticism. Well, we do not discuss that in the same phrase, with the same breath, you said why we opened the borders and at the same time because we have a recession in northern Greece too! But I would especially expect Mr. Skourletis, when the SYRIZA government has handed over to the state that it was delivered, when the government entered a war of global tension with these ammunition that you handed over, when, as I said in my speech every year in October and November, the SYRIZA's Iths were filled and there was a waiting list, and this year it wasn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u213	Is that why you cut the budget expenditure?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u214	Please. He didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u215	We heard you, we heard you, Mr. Skourlet. This year did not do so in the midst of this pandemic, after more than doubled by the IFs. And the complexity of the opening of the economy is such that it has never faced any government. We have done so, no matter how much you want to discredit Greek tourism, in coordination and successfully. The prizes I told you didn't come from Greece. Out from abroad, they're here. It's the image of our country. And don't think what you're doing now does not cause damage. It causes damage, but Greek tourism, the Greek economy, the image of the country stands against your attempt to defamate it. With regard to algorithm, the APR is not a scientific body. I can't judge him. It's a trade union organ. The EIA is working to have competitions - and it does - and there are jobs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u216	Aren't they scientists?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u217	Please, Mr. Katsey.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u218	They're businessmen. And they do well. This algorithm was made by university professors and scientists, and studies are available and there will be further studies in their universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u219	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u220	I shall conclude, Mr President, but it is very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u221	I get it, but we have another conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u222	It's a big defamation. It's a big story. When we started opening tourism, a question was on the lips of infectious words: Does the second wave bring it back from October to August. That was the fear, and with that fear we worked intensively to organise this opening. What Greek citizen can say that the second wave came in August? In October it came, as in every country of Europe. And there is not a single country that opened a universal test, nor a single country in Europe. Finally - and I am closing with this - if we are in a good position, I will say that our country is thirty in Europe's deaths. In a jealous position. We wouldn't want a death. Not even one! The government is not happy with its efforts and the results are not the result of the Greek Government. They are the result of the discipline of the Greek people, of their efforts to deal with this situation. We will continue to have positive results as long as the Greek people are committed to this effort. We hope in a few months with the vaccine that we do not have to continue to be in this condition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, too. Let's go back to the list and to the New Democracy, to Mrs. Catherine Papakostas - Papura from the Trikala. Here, Mrs Papakosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u224	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, it is a joint declaration and, at the same time, the acceptance of all - either clearly or in secret - that in our country the health and economic crisis and the crisis in Greek-Turkish confronted with a happy juncture. And I'm explaining. The country's governance has been entrusted to a government that defines its vision, design, cooperation and efficiency in conjunction with responsibility, which the New Democracy's paradigm has to demonstrate over time. And because in this Chamber many colleagues of the Officerial Reformation have rushed to speak of a careless Prime Minister, I am sorry to disappoint them, but the majority of the Greek people are now aware that a Prime Minister, an honest, hardworking, efficient, politician with fresh ideas and practices, a realisticist, rationalist, modernist and reformer, is finally on the table. It is the Prime Minister who does not like populism and tymbanocrimia, mammothism, who knows how to hear and disintegrate, who does not hesitate to revise pre-thinking, who takes the pulse of everyday life with his political sensory and leads our country with certainty, without old ageings, derogations and compromises, always based on the common good. All of us, therefore, on the New Democracy parade, whatever position we hold, join and follow, so that at the end of the four-year period our main objectives, primarily, have been achieved, safeguarding our national interests and the qualitative upgrading of civil society, have been achieved. With the government in mind, therefore, the highest role of supply in our country has been drafted and presented in the budget for 2021, drawn up in emergencies. As a result of the pandemic crisis, the Greek economy is estimated to fall by 10.5% of GDP for the current year. However, in 2021, its growth rate is projected to be 4.8% compared with 2020. According to the latest report of November by the Commission, Italy, Spain and Portugal for 2020, the economies of which are also largely based on tourism, are projected to shrink by 9.9%, 12.4% and 9.3% respectively, while the reduction in Greek GDP is estimated to be 9%. We note, therefore, that the economies of the rest of the European countries in the south have suffered clearly greater losses than the Greek one. Therefore, the Anti-Population Authorities that we supposedly brought the recession lack all arguments and pragmatism. Undoubtedly, the New Democracy Government has put in place a series of measures to prevent the spread of the virus and the financial support for the affected sectors of the economy, which reach 7% of GDP for 2020, when the corresponding budgetary measures in Europe on average are estimated to be only 4%. They have been taken and implemented to support the sixty-two-two-two-billion measures affected by the coronary, amounting to EUR 23,841 billion for 2020 and EUR 7,546 billion, which are expected to affect the financial result of 2021, at a total value of EUR 31,437 billion. For example, in my constituency, the Trikala Prefecture, EUR 47.4 million has been distributed through the repayable advance and special-purpose compensation to workers and businesses. This is an even greater increase, taking into account liquidity interventions, as almost eighty-six loans, amounting to 61.6 million, have already been approved through the entrepreneurship fund II and the Guarantee Fund. I should not be able to comment briefly on the measures planned for 2021 and have an impact on the financial result, such as the reduction of three percentage points in the insurance contributions of private sector employees, the suspension of a special solidarity levy, the cover of insurance contributions from the State budget and the EUR 200 in the event of the recruitment of a long-term unemployed for six months in the framework of the 100 000 new jobs programme, the reduction of VAT and the suspension of charges on various categories of goods, services and sectors affected by the pandemic until April 2021, the special purpose allowances expected to be paid next January, the cover of the salary of temporary health personnel hired in 2020 and the staff of the public transport sector, as well as the creation of a special reserve of 3 billion in order to counteract the financial consequences of the cordon in 2021 and the armament of our borders by modernising our arms programmes. Most importantly, this is a budget which does not contain a new tax burden on Greek taxpayers. Not even one! In governance SYRIZA and without a health crisis, the policies implemented are true that they bleeding Greek society. You added, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response, you and your government at the time, not one or two, but twenty-nine new taxes. You imposed new austerity measures and proceeded with pension cuts. In fact, you have recently voted against the reduction in insurance contributions, from which they benefit neither little or no less than two million workers. You did not, of course, vote for the abolition of the ENPI on the remote islands. You did not even vote for the programme for a hundred thousand new jobs. On the other hand, the Government of New Democracy, while remaining faithful to its commitments that led to the 2019 election victory, draws up the budget of 2021 with budgetary wisdom and flexibility, without leading to a fiscal derailment of the economy, as is irresponsibly recommended once again by the Civilian Opposition. The 2021 budget sets the most important one: the necessary foundations and the future development of Greece. With the resources that will be influencing from the Recovery Fund, calculated at 2.1% of GDP in 2021, we proceed with the further modernisation of the Greek state with a long-term development plan. The government's priority, according to Pissaridis, is the continuation of structural reforms and the transformation of the economy, making it attractive to investors and attracting private investment. In conclusion, the Government of New Democracy is most effective in dealing with the financial implications of the pandemic, while at the same time paying attention to ensuring public health. The administration of the vaccine, which will be made available free of charge to all citizens, as the Prime Minister has personally promised, will contribute decisively to the full restoration of economic activity and will implement the government's new development plan, based on innovation, creation, extroversion, labour, investment in the knowledge economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you. The government enjoys not only parliamentary but mainly social acceptance. By voting in favour of the budget, it puts the foundations for overcoming the crisis and creating the Greece of tomorrow, which we see as a reserve for the next generations. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude my speech with a final statement. We all understand that our country is on the right track. But I also have a reasonable question: Are you considering what the situation would be in our country, if SYRIZA were today, with its foreign policy? Personally, I can't even think about it, as I imagine every Greek citizen in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mrs. Papacosta. We will remain in our beautiful Thessaly. We'll be back in Trikala. Let's go for a walk from Volos. Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u226	Thank you very much, Mr President. You should know Magnesia is very pleased when you are presided over. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, let us at least agree on one thing, namely that the budgetary procedure is the mirror not only of the current government, but also of every government. So, in fact, these days we are discussing the concept of the New Democracy, how it understood or approached, if you like, the critical and dramatic events that have taken place this year and are still happening and what is going to happen or not to do in the new year that comes, costlylyly, binding. At a time when the management of pandemic after recurring, experimentation, amateurism, inappropriateness and ideologies has escaped from every control and from a safe country within a short period of time we have been able to measure hundreds of victims a day and have a National Health System on the verge of nervous breakdown, while we are in a year of historical recession, Mr Staikora, due to the impact of the European Central Bank's pandemic on the economy, but also to the improper failure of the government to deal with them effectively - Greece already records the deepest recession in Europe in the third quarter of 2020 - while despite the regulated debt, despite the lifting of the Stability Pact, despite the extraordinary programme of the European Central Bank, despite the existence of the 'capacity' of the EUR 37 billion security pillows of EUR 37 billion, despite the fact that Europe's message is's spending, in order to have health and economic stability', despite the fact that there are fewer millions of millions jobs, we have lost in the low incomes of less than a millions gains gains. So at the moment, ladies and gentlemen, when all these dramatic events are happening, what is the reaction of the New Democracy? How does the government react? What is its attitude, its strategy of reversing these negative and tragic data? All of this shows that the budget: 572 million less for public health, when the pressure on the ESS for hospitalisation in CIVID-19 and ICU remains unrelenting, while at the same time increasing the health care personnel affected by the virus, with a society feared and unsafe and ultimately left completely to its fate. Just 200 million more were given to reinforce hospitals and primary care, as if there were no health crisis. The total costs of dealing with the consequences of the pandemic amount to just EUR 6.7 billion, of which half are loans. While Greek workers experience the third largest reduction in income throughout Europe, while thousands of them are on a job suspension regime and it is doubtful whether they will return, the Ministry of Finance predict that only rapid stabilisation of the labour market will occur, but also a reduction in unemployment by one unit. While market operators hit you at the risk bell, as they estimate that a hundred and fifty thousand businesses will be forced to lock up by June, as 78% of their revenues have been lost, what do you think? That tax revenues will increase year by year and even spectacularly, over EUR 3 billion over this year. Unless you consider there in the financial staff that with the experiment - anecdotes of clack - away and with the focus closed, you will help thousands of local shops to make up for part of their losses, when in Greece only 15 thousand businesses have e-shop and only seven thousand are operational. I have indeed, Mr Staikoura, a huge wonder and awkward curiosity to see from what exactly the increase in tax revenue will occur in a country which records a recession of 10.5%, but also when in April 2021 the sums from the 'freeze' of tax debt will also be due, together with, of course, the new tax obligations that will have been created until then. So, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, there is always no doubt that we are living a prolonged and continuing rape of reality and truth. As if it were not the most official state-run confession of failure in the management of this double crisis - health and economic - the citizens are forced to endure the unbearable lightness of tens of statements of exorcism and outrageous alteration of reality on a daily basis by ministers and dozens of government officials. Mr. Stavura, you have your honour. You said the other day about the budget that it is a budget with vision and realism, when people are already living the reproach of losing income. Mr. Gerapetritis said that if we had more ICUs, we would also have a greater number of dead people when the number of people that are being evacuated and deceived outside intensive treatment units is increasing. Mr Kikilias said he received congratulations from doctors and nurses throughout the country, when the world of the HSY is on its limit, when the doctors and nurses of the National Health System first line are on the limit of burn - out. On the other hand, Mr. Georgiadis said that "we do not give any more money because we do not want the world to get fat", when many municipalities in the country today are organizing love marathons to help families who are now making it very difficult for the pandemic's consequences. Mr. Kontozamanis recently came to the hospital of Volos and stated explicitly that "we had a plan to deal with the pandemic in Magnesia", but this also appeared when Volos Hospital was converted into a hospital of hospitals, when even today a new pathologist, a pneumonologist, has not taken over. If the New Democracy had come to the right conclusion from this dual crisis, if you were to have an elementary awareness of how the daily lives of the citizens are shaped by the consequences of this long-term emergency, if you were to hear, Mr Stavoura and Mr Ministers, ultimately the world, these days - and more generally - we should have had a whole different conversation. We would be discussing a serious and long-term investment in public health in order to respond to new health needs and challenges. We would plan the immediate reorganisation of public health services with a decentralised dimension at last. We would reflect the budget on strengthening public health spending to 7% of GDP, as is already the case in most European countries. We would draw up a plan for fifteen thousand permanent recruitments of medical, nursing and other health personnel. We would ultimately move on to the wage upgrade of the health scientist, the health officer. So we recognise the contribution of these people in practice, not to the applause. That would be a budget in the pandemic. Now this small and medium-sized class, for which you shed tears for four years, is the biggest victim of pandemic. Where are permanent relief measures at last? Where's the development strategy? What is the support of traders, free traders? The aid to be repaid and TEPIX? Or constantly close the eye on "HONDOS CENTER", "ZARA" and "PULL AND BEAR"? You know what? Somewhere between the merciless Parnitha and the "yellowing" of Sunni we lose and we're still trying to find these six hundred non-SMEs, we've completely lost the support of the private sector and, in the end, the worst of all, we've lost the essence and, unfortunately, we've left communication. That's too bad!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Meikopoulou. As I promised you, we're going back to Trikala and New Democracy. Mr Athanasios Ljutas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u228	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 budget, as expressed by the most appropriate lips, was designed in a critical environment. The spread of the coronary created fear in Greek society, literally froze society and the economy. This reality makes the 2021 budget crucial, as it describes the way our Government will follow to heal the wounds that this unprecedented pandemic leaves in its path. More specifically, the 2021 budget is a realistic budget programme. It incorporates pandemic wounds and recognizes its unpredictable character. It proves all the support the government provided in the pandemic. It sees and distinguishes all needs as well as all social and professional groups separately. A wide range of support and compensation has been applied from the very first moment. The needs and wounds of all were identified. There has been broad and massive compensation and support. Employment has been maintained. Our project has been and is intended for the citizen to remain unprotected at no level. At the same time, it is a budget that is a good one to tackle the health crisis. The government has supported, supported and supported the National Health System, as well as the medical and nursing staff of our country, those people who give a real struggle, a battle to defend all human life, those people who deserve warm congratulations today. At the same time, the 2021 budget supports economic development. It provides for reductions in tax rates and insurance contributions. It broadens the income available and creates a good place for new employment. Our government's pro-investment strategy has been transparent since the first moment, already in July 2019 and continues in this direction. Tax reductions, the lifting of insurance restrictions, the modernisation of the state, the management of private debt are only some of the milestones of our government policy to date, a policy that has continued and continued uninterruptedly within the time of the pandemic and a policy that will continue. The 2021 budget also produces social justice. Nobody's left and he won't be left alone. Apart from the policies of reductions, taxation and the contributions that normally lead to a fair income and jobs, we have recently voted on a bill showing in practice that social sensitivity is no benefit to the Left. On the contrary, it is the practical result of our own policy. This is public expenditure, so that the weakest citizen can be supported. At the same time, the defensive expenditure forecasts reflect the responsibility of our Government for the geopolitical security of our country. They show support for the Armed Forces that have defended, defended and will continue to defend with high care any inch of Greek land. Ladies and gentlemen, a budget does not just describe the future. On the contrary, it comes and explains in the most descriptive way what it has preceded. In other words, it is coming and stating where and how the planned development can be supported. The development envisaged for next year is based on everything that we have achieved and everything that we continue to pursue. The predicted growth for 2021, after a year of unprecedented health crisis, shows that the soil has been turned and that is the absolute truth. This is an undeniable event that has led to historically low-private lending. We have gained the confidence of international markets and international entrepreneurship. As a result, there is no tax increase in the budget in 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I would like to make a special reference to the specific reconstruction plan which will also be supported by the recovery fund. I come from a prefecture, the Trikala prefecture, where we first know how great a need for economic development, for infrastructures and projects with an environmental dimension, how much we need for water for rural and livestock production, for sustainable and developmental primary sector, for strong manufacturing and craft industries, for supporting and developing tourism, as well as for strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises and innovation services. The recent theorem of "Janu" has injured and highlighted the imperative need for infrastructure construction such as dams, because the pandemic has "flamed" tourism but has "fflicted" our primary production which is the two main levers of the development of our country. Moreover, pandemic was pushing their limits and small and medium-sized enterprises. We must therefore all be charitable to the efforts of the Government and Prime Minister for the productive reconstruction of our country against a plan that supports the country, the economy and the lives of all Greeks. It's the next bet, and I'm sure we'll win it. We will win this because the country is now walking with targeting, realism and awareness of the need for a better future for all Greek women and all Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr Liuta, for keeping time. I will give the floor to Mr Constantine Zachariadis of SYRIZA, Member of the 2nd North Athens Sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, good evening. If I wanted to say just one word about this budget, I would say: you have failed. You have failed and failed every day in every crisis you are trying to manage. You failed the pandemic. From the zero cases and zero dead some days this summer, we reached the current tragedy of the reports of the "Reuters", the saturated ICUs, the uncontrolled spread of the virus in the community. You failed public health and relaxed while you knew what had happened and what was happening in other countries. You had knowledge and you were loose, careless, celebrated that you defeated the virus. So you would also beat the economic crisis and everything in the country would be fine. You failed on the financial side of the pandemic. This is where SYRIZA doesn't have to say anything. Hear in video Mr. Stavoura and Mr. Psulakakis talking about the country's finances and prospects in April, in July, September, today. The country is always worse than the worst case scenario, the country permanently dredgings in indicators and performance compared to the European average, but also in comparison with other countries that have similar problems with us. We are discussing a text that says that the economy of Greece in 2021 will grow by 4.8%. Minister, do you really believe this? If you believe it, unfortunately you're out of place and time. Unfortunately, you're either naive or dangerous. What happened to the middle class in whose name you won the election? Where does she find herself in this budget? The deception of the middle class is your great political "Waterlo". You're not listening to them. You don't feel them. You don't stand up for them. You're melting them to devour them the older ones. The country socially and economically enters dark times again, harder than the memorials. Unemployment, inequalities, social exclusion, impasses, psychological collapse make up a landscape. You have failed foreign policy as well. Mr Petsas said: "Mr Mitsotakis will not leave the Synod unless he gets anything". He has received a great diplomatic defeat, a defeat which shows that the way you handle matters, with irresponsibleness and with imprudentness, leads us to national humiliation. Should we go to the interior ministry? Throughout Europe, in many countries in the world, local government is being strengthened decisively and plays a key role in supporting society in the recovery of its pandemic and its consequences. Why is that so? Because as an institution, local government is closer to the citizen, closer to the problem. Self-government knows the peculiarities of the neighbourhood that the central government cannot know. That's what happens all over the world. What's going on in Greece? It's coming back. We have a reduction in self-government spending. That's what the CED is talking about. They call them your self-government executives. But you do not listen to anyone, nor the opposition, nor to your own self-government. They say you didn't hear them about the health measures of the pandemic in Thessaloniki. See their own statements on the devastating delays: Mr Djitzkosta, Mr Zorba, Mr Kizoglou, Mr Kaitezides. They show you about the pandemic explosion in Thessaloniki. Are you going to answer them? Are you going to answer us? There may be no money for OTAs, for education, for health, but there is for posters. There's for the state at last. There is to keep former POTAMI MP who was a member of DIMAR, who was previously a member of the SYRIZA, who, in the last elections, was a candidate with New Democracy and was not elected and is now appointed as a member of the Vice-President. That's what money and money are for. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Recitals of hypocrisy and affliction of society! You, who yelled at the posters of our government, are now nominated by doors and windows. Today, then, we have more than three thousand posters. Nowadays there were two thousand poster. Remuneration increased by 60% to 70% compared to our period, depending on the category and of course low-graduate, high-school graduation with the New Democracy, degrees, postgraduate, doctorate with SYRIZA. You represent this excellence! And then it comes Mr. Theodorikos to tell us about the APRC, to tell us about democracy and transparency in the public sector, when for eighteen months you have been appointing and recruiting by way of derogation from the APRC, without transparency, without merit, with partisanism, with clientism, with pitifulity. They've all understood you now. We are therefore voting against the 2021 budget. Because the budget is also a vote of confidence, we and more in society disapprove you. The country is already looking for progressive outlets, solutions and responses to the deadlocks created. Your time ends not because we say so, but because your behavior bears witness to it. Yellowing, personal attacks at Tsipra show a lack of plan and panic in communication management. He is the precursor of your communication escape from the unbearable everyday life that on your own account is getting worse. In your "yellow" curse you can't convince your own. Mrs Bakoyannis, in her honor - I say it and I mean it - said: "I am not commenting on such matters. It's personal. Political decisions are theirs. If he wants to go rent a house, for God's sake, I don't think he should join political confrontation, at least not from me." So a big scandal, the country house Tsipras rented. Of course, Tsipra's luxurious cottage is not half of the houses, but of the houses that the Prime Minister owns on the basis of his "substantially". But we said, the scandal is Tsipras who rents and not the two hundred and fifty square meters of Mr. Mitsotakis' swimming pools, as he has said in "outside you". [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We therefore call transparency everywhere. We are bringing an amendment to the path of repayment of Members' loans. Will you vote for it? Can you bear it, Minister, or will you still run as you were running on 1 June 2016, when the House with our own majority legislated on the incompatibility of the MPs with the separate companies? Last question: What about your party loan? When will it be repaid? Will he be repaid? Three hundred and ten million euros owes the New Democracy right now to the banks. SYRIZA owes nothing. How many cottages do we rent for 310 million euros? Who's gonna pay for all this money? So we leave you to your misery and your yellows. We will be next to society and its problems, and the world knows it, and you know it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much, Mr Zachariadis. The Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u232	I am listening to colleagues, in particular the Officerial Response, returning without presenting any personal information, with the last of my dear colleagues, and using phrases such as 'the financial staff are naive, dangerous'. I will repeat once again and I will submit additional information at some point get it from the Minutes and read it. The changes in the forecasts that have taken place at a pan-European level at a global level are constant. Do you claim, Mr. Colleague, that only the Greek Government has changed estimates since April, as you said? Have you not seen what has happened to the European Central Bank, to the European Commission, to the government in Spain, which is a party closer to you? I will submit to the Minutes a specific table which all of them said in March that Europe would be developing. Please read, please, the table and see and tell me a country that has not changed its estimates since April. Secondly, do you not like countries' assessments? Read at least the report of the Parliament's Budget Office. I do not think you should have any complaints about the Budget Office of the State of Parliament. The head was very close to you. Accordingly, in March he argued that Greece would have a growth of 2%. The report is May 2020. He argued that Greece would have a growth of 2.1%. It then said that according to scenarios, the recession in 2020 could have been from 4% to 9.5%. Do you understand how difficult it is to make assessments? Third comment: I have heard many colleagues from Officerial Response - I have also seen today interviewing the Chief of Official Response in the field of the economy - systematically invoking an OECD study and saying: "Look, the OECD claims that growth in Greece will be just 0.9%". First of all, I would remind you that you made the same mistake in April when the OECD claimed that the fall in economic activity in Greece would be 35% and changed it. I will submit to the Minutes, to assess all, what are the estimates of forty two houses today for the Greek economy, all, institutions, rating houses, Greek banks, research and study centres that exist within and outside Greece. The result of their estimates today, with the current data, is that Greece will be running at a recession of 8.9% in 2020 - we support 10.5% - and will run with growth of 4.1% 2021. The European Commission considers that Greece will run by 5%. The IMF considers that Greece will run at 5.7%. The Focus Economics Consensus considers that Greece will run by 4.5%. I have here an analysis of what SETE supports, what banks support, what everyone supports. So, of the forty-one that argues that growth will be strong in 2021, of the order of 4% to 5%, there is one, the OECD, who argues that growth in Greece will be only 0.9% and you are only talking about this study from the fordames. Why? Because you're investing in the country's destruction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u233	Thank you too, Minister. Mr Leuteris Augeakis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u234	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the 2021 budget today. We are discussing a budget that comes through the unfavourable economic conditions left by pandemic, a budget that has been tabled at a time when societies are being tested worldwide by the most serious health crisis in the last hundred years. Health systems are internationally pressed, economies are being slashed internationally. In this liquid environment, we have tabled the budget, a budget based on the successful economic policies of the last year, which sets realistic targets, which promotes reforms that are distinguished from economic efficiency and social efficiency, which is adapted to the requirements and needs created by each phase of the development of the health crisis. I will focus on two features of the budget, which will determine the country's progress in the immediate future. First feature: the budget is developmental. In this direction, in addition to the imperative budgetary measures, economic liquidity and reform initiatives, it is important to play the role of the Recovery Fund, together with other European Union programmes, as reflected in the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027. Secondly, the budget is pro-investing. It incorporates tax and insurance levies and contains initiatives to strengthen liquidity in the real economy. In particular, the current government has permanently reduced specific taxes and insurance contributions. Obviously, these reductions will apply both in 2021 and in the coming years. However, the most important thing, as has been said by the financial staff, is that we expect that, when the parenthesis of the health crisis is closed and depending on the country's financial potential and the government's priorities, some of these taxes, insurance contributions or others, their reductions will be permanentised. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the area of sport is concerned, this debate comes after eighteen months of very substantial work, a work that has had and has at its heart the development of amateur sport, the extroversion of Greek sport, the upgrading and modernisation of sports facilities for athletes and athletes, and the promotion of the values of sport and olympism in society, a work that has been done under extremely difficult conditions in which the pandemic has made us. Management of the pandemic. We would be blind if we did not realize that the sport sector was severely oppressed by the consequences of the pandemic. World championships have been stopped, international organisations that we have labored and programmed have been suspended, facilities closed. I understand the emotional pressure of all those who have so far been forced to deprive their second home, the space they are playing. Still, we didn't sit with your hands crossed. In order to provide substantial financial support for sport as a whole during the quarantine period and the first phase and the second phase, we have taken very early and immediate measures to support the sporting family. We have taken lightning care of the integration of sports clubs into the social umbrella to address the consequences of the coronary with their placing on the additional CARs for support measures and during the second lockdown. At the same time, the national sports centres supervised by the Secretariat-General of Sports went to brave financial facilities to amateur sports clubs, while we implemented projects in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and the OAED for 599 sporting positions in OTAs and legal entities governed by public law. We have also made tax concessions for sport. Tickets of sports games are now subject to a reduced VAT rate of 13% from 24% and the taxation of coaches' incomes has been similar to that of paid athletes at 22% of 45%, as regards the transfer, renewal, the solution to their contractual cooperation. In addition, we have reduced the tax rate to 22% from 45% for the amounts paid by sports anonymous companies to athletes for the signature of a contract of registration, but also for the renewal or termination of the contract of cooperation, and for the reduction of a tax of 20% from 10% on the amounts of donations to amateur sports clubs. We have given a solution to a reasonable and crucial request from many amateur sports clubs in terms of the movements of their athletes. We give the municipalities and regions the opportunity to cover costs of traveling athletes and sports teams in full cooperation with the Ministry of Interior. All of what I mentioned is of their own special importance in the breath we give to amateur sport. Nothing compared, however, to receiving money directly, because it's different to know that the state is next to you, puts back on it to help you move forward and actively supports you, rewarding you for your economy and your consistency. With this philosophy and excellent cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, we have been moving, starting from next week, to the direct financing of amateur sports clubs with the sum of EUR 12 million. Registries of sports clubs. To understand the absolute sluggishness that prevailed, each federation of our country declared us approximate fictitious numbers of its associations, which had nothing to do with reality in the majority of the sports federations. I remember very well from this moment on the Step I mentioned in last year's budget that football has about 4,500 amateur unions. I am sorry, but this information was given by the federations, because we had absolutely no primary information. In the first wave of pandemic we asked for the exact number of federations in each federation, and that is where the absolute abundance emerged. For this reason, we have accelerated the sports club register, with which we have laid rules and in terms of transparency, we are putting order in the amateur sport of our country, by recording amateur sports clubs and by promoting housekeeping, transparency and legality. In the same context, we are planning the register of coaches that will follow in the near future. Spell for everyone. Sport for all is our priority, and our policies focus on strengthening the institution. Thus, we are implementing for the period 2020-2021 six and a half thousand programmes where a thousand two hundred graduates of Physical Education are employed and participating more than a hundred and fifty thousand of our fellow citizens, a total of one and a half million euros. We have completed the new organisational framework for the implementation of sport programmes for all, by strengthening transparency, meritability, efficiency, but also, of course, the evaluation of programmes. ‘Be Active’. In the context of this 2020 programme, despite the unfavourable conditions arising from the pandemic, over seven hundred actions have been organised throughout the territory, despite the specificities of COVID -19. Fight against doping. Within this time we have made progress in the field of combating doping. In fact, we received the credit from the President of WADA Vitold Banca at a recent teleconferencing conference and thus with the a.d.87/2020 the EEC was formed, which was upgraded to an organisation, and we have already anticipated 1,3 million euros for the operation of the Agency for the year 2021. ECONOMIC AND Even the important National Sports Research Centre so far is inactive. By ministerial decision we revived it and give it a key role, and we provided emergency funding for the next year to provide services to amateur sport throughout the country. 'Chillona' programme. Last year we committed ourselves to a system that ensures dignity and transparency in the grants from the federations, reflecting data on their full activity. We did the groundbreaking evaluation system 'HILON'. For the first time this year, and from now on, grants to the supervised bodies of the Ministry of Sports have been shared with the method of merit and, of course, with measurable data and the state grant of approximately 18 million for this year, was given with absolute transparency rather than personal criteria. Sports premiere. We pay the EUR 2.7 million premium for the major successes our athletes have achieved since 2017, a premium that the previous government had to have done. I would remind you that by the end of 2019 this money should have been paid, which the SYRIZA Government had arranged for it to be composted. Infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, the picture we have seen when at the beginning of this government's term of office we visited from our smaller to the largest facilities, such as the OAS, was disappointing. Today, as you know, this picture is changing sharply. And this is thanks to a large programme of modernisation, maintenance and also energy upgrade that we are implementing in our sports infrastructures. We donated 21 million to our sports facilities to meet their needs. It is worth noting that we have achieved for the first time, 16 years after the Olympic Games, the first use of Olympic property, the closed in Liosia, while we are working and preparing other use of this kind, opening the gates of our facilities to tomorrow's athletes and champions. In summary, corresponding recovery plans have been developed for Schisto, for the OAS tennis stadiums, for the Olympic Village, for the Peace and Friendship Stage, for the Home of the Closed Style and Volley in Paienia, the Sniper of Vyron and all our sports centers throughout the country. At the same time we have managed to absorb even more programs from the EEE, while we have incorporated new major projects of a total budget of 4.8 million and have thus far paid 2.2 million to projects carried out. Our aim is, let me say, to "stick" the PPP of sport and to manage to give all citizens new, modern, accessible sports facilities. At the same time, for the "PHILADIMOS II" programme, we have approved, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, two hundred eighty-eight projects totalling 159 million, which are financed from own resources. In addition, through the programming we have done, much of what we are trying to do is claim to be financed from the resources of the Recovery Fund agreed with the Commission under the seven-year programme of the European Union. In other words, we call for part of the total of 32 billion to be made available to the country to deal with the effects of the pandemic and, more specifically, about 150 million to be directed towards rehabilitation, modernisation and, above all, energy upgrading of our sports facilities. We are working systematically, and when we have a complete picture, we will, of course, be very detailed. Paralympic Sports Center in Rafina. We are working rapidly for the first sports centre in Greece, the most modern sports centre in Europe, which is developing in collaboration with the municipality, the Region of Attica, with the Paralympic Committee and the Paralympic Association. 'PLOPOS' with the CEDEFOP. For the first time, we implemented the "POLOPAS" platform, which records every sporting facility in our country, so that we can design the next projects targeted and efficiently and prioritise the needs of each region. Until now, there have been hundreds of municipalities in our country open up and the entries are evolving at a very fast pace. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the Secretary-General.]] I played. Unprecedented work has also been done in the field of dealing with manipulated games. We set up the National Platform of Sports Integrity, a structure that operates and cooperates at national and European level, but also at global level. Since the first half of 2021, its operation will begin and the amount of 170,000 for 2021 has been predicted. It's under the McColin Convention, where about four, five years ago, you had it in your drawer, gentlemen of SYRIZA. Council of Europe. We are very happy that Greece has this half-yearly Presidency of the Council of Europe. In this context, since November, we have been holding online meetings ahead of the Sixth Council of Europe Session on Sport, the work of which will be completed with the Council of Ministers for Sports. In the context of the Greek Presidency, we are working on two key issues concerning the revision of the European Sports Charter and human rights and sport. Organizations. It is not at all a good decision to close athletic facilities and to freeze athletic events, let alone when we have set as a strategic objective the strengthening of the extroverty of Greek sport, to upgrade its prestige and, above all, to create a Greece, a country that is an attraction for new major sports events. At the moment, however, we are in a war with a very dangerous and invisible enemy who does not discriminate against his victims. So, within this framework, we have succeeded in organising with complete success and in particular the European Teen Championship Basketball, FINAL 8, the Women's Pre-critical Eurobasket, the Hudball Adolescent Mediterranean, the European Candy Championship, and the event has been postponed due to COVID -19.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u235	Finish, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u236	I shall conclude, Mr President. In fact, at the recent informal teleconferencing of the Ministers for Sport, I presented the implementation of very strict competition protocols that we have implemented for the events that I mentioned just now and which the European family has accepted with great pleasure because they have seen the result. At the same time I can tell you that we are very close to very positive news of motor sports. Recently the state committee was also appointed and in cooperation with the international and national bodies of MOTOR SPORT in Greece, we will claim and organize a race worthy of our reputation. Soon we'll have final and official news to announce. Ladies and gentlemen, you would expect this data to be recognised by all the political forces, that they would have their party buckets and sterile opposition formalities. But unfortunately, reality laughs at us. They remain in their world and we are in the course of work and consistent with Greek society. And yes, today we can talk about achievements, with which the Greek society and the productive fabric of the country stand up. We can talk about leaps in the athletic event. Everyone recognizes it, except for what interests are affected. But the recognition of today's achievements should be undeniable. It is not a matter of subjective or issue of opinion. That is why I ask you to see the facts and I urge you to vote in favour of the 2021 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u237	Mr President, I would like the floor for a minute to ask the Minister something.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u238	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u239	I, too, request the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u240	Mr. Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, has the floor for intervention in what Mr. Minister said, then Mr. Mylonakis and Mr. Skourletis will then make his speech. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u241	Mr Secretary, I did not intend to make such a reference to the budget speech, but because you said too much, I would like to ask you one. A few months ago, here, with a fuss and a conflict, a problem had arisen in the House in the field of football, which you had dealt with with with an amendment. The Prime Minister himself - not you - on a day when the House was discussing and was Mr. Tsipras and Mrs. Genemas here - were all the Chiefs here in the Chamber - said that soccer can no longer continue the very bad situation and that there will be a memorandum between Greece and UEFA and FIFA and this memorandum will be fully implemented, otherwise we should not have football. The study in question has been prepared, we have been sent and it is not being implemented. There is one issue that concerns the Prime Minister himself here, not you. The Prime Minister said this to the House. Verbatim I can mention his words and after a long time, after months, the study is being prepared and the NCA says that this is an opinion that we will see, and so on. There is a question of government prestige. Have your ministers, Mr. Gerapitris, been photographed by the UEFA, FIFA officials - I do not remember who exactly - and in practice, nothing? Please make a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you told us enough, so much that if someone who does not live in Greece listened to them, he would think that Greek sport has taken on board. But I'm telling you that you may be a fatal minister for history, because the National Football Team is not going well at all, and our rating at UEFA, after all these years, is too low. I want to ask you something. B', class III and everything else why haven't they started yet, while in all the other countries they've started? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr Mylonakis. Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like a clarification from the Minister, if he were wrong. Has he referred to SYRIZA's "PHILDIMUM" programme? Because Mr Theodorikos was supposed to have abolished it, because it was a programme 'in the air', there was no money, and now we are learning - and you did, if I am not mistaken and an interview with the RES - ICM - that he has become a big bank and that sports infrastructure is strengthened. Mr. Ministers, you decide between you and me what is going on. Why is this unconsciousness finally leading? Not knowing what's going on and mocking people. Secondly, the issue of the women's quota on the management boards in the sports area, why have you abolished it? Here is an issue that applies to everyone in the institutional formation of the state, at least in public, social structures and administrative boards. There are corresponding legislation. What's this case after all? Android? The women are second class? And the last thing I want to say is this. In fact, you're consistent on one thing. A large section, which was the simple analogue of clubs, which would have broken the sporting establishment, abolished it, because you are the worthy perpetrator of all that establishment, which has led to various scales and different interests in sport.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. Mr Ausgarian, you have the floor for a minute too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u247	Just to give the stimulus to what we have presented as a work, as a result and not as an intention to the Ministry of Sports for the period that has passed and given the floor to three colleagues from three different parties, this means that something good is doing and annoyed by the inactivity and valority they represent through their positions. But let's take things in turn, one - one. Dear Mr Skourletis, you have lost episodes of quotas. Let us know a little bit from your colleagues in the European Union to tell you - because they probably forgot to let you know - that we have congratulated on the provision that we passed on to the quota in the forthcoming elections by the federation administrations. You've lost episodes. Get in touch and I'll see you again. Secondly, as far as the issues of organisation, stagnation, all that you have described, two words are not here. We have a budget debate. I'd be happy to ask you any day you want a topical question and we'll come to the House to discuss it. Now, as regards the 'PHILADIMOS II' programme to which I referred, there has been a bridge in the 'Antonis Tritsis' programme. Is he missing you? That's too bad! Nowadays it must be you. You're an old man. All projects that had not already been assessed, evaluated and proceeded with their approval. So what's weird?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u248	I want SYRIZA to be all right!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u249	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u250	Mr. Skourletis, he heard you without interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u251	My dear fellow Member, the Greek National is not the case of the Ministry of Sport. Don't get confused. However, I too agree with you that its course is not a good one. But it is not the job of the political leadership of the Ministry of Sport to judge the course of our team, the national team. It's the work of the VDU, the federation and the choices he's making. However, the wish of all of us is to find its pace and to follow a brilliant course, which we all of course want. Mr. Loverdo, I appreciate you, but you're the third of KINAL trying to shake the waters in sport. You are, unfortunately, behind developments. You don't pull the cart, the cart draws you. I'm afraid so. I'm so sorry. For the holistic study you have asked a question. Do you want to talk about it now or talk about it when the time comes? I'd be happy to talk about it. Nevertheless, the holistic study has been delivered. It has already given Super League 1 and Super League 2 to football players, as well as to the EEA. We have spoken with all the administrations of the OLAF and there is a step forward - a very discreet step. But we have said in public - we have not hidden behind our finger - in the holistic study that, as far as the government or the state is concerned, we will apply it in full, without any discount. We agree that this holistic study is an excellent, excellent tool for upgrading the Greek football and we have called and collaborated on it discreetly, silently, without any hits, with all FIFA, UEFA, SSU, Liga 1, Liga 2, the association of footballers and referees to succeed in the next period and then the election of the new administration, to find a formula and apply to integer and other aspects. As far as we are concerned, however, we are quite clear. No powder, no discount on what refers to the very useful tool called'solistic study'. You said we had a lot to talk about. If you want, we'll discuss them one by one. For everything, we have evidence and I did not present any intentions, no wishes, but a result of work in a ministry that had been forgotten until now. It was "Ministry of Football" or "Ministry of Football Mines". Today it is a Ministry of Sports and it deals with the entire sports community. And I am very pleased that the sporting family as a whole knows and has evaluated the work that is being done. I am also pleased that the few you serve and represent in here eventually, undone by the areas and reforms in Greek sport, understand and are disturbed. For us, however, it is the great, healthy part of the sporting family. We're working for them, and we'll work with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u252	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u253	Mr. President, he didn't answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u254	No, no, Mr. Mylonaki. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u255	He didn't answer at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u256	Okay, she didn't answer. What can we do? Should we pressure him to answer? You're right. I figured she didn't answer. I'm at sports, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u257	Mr President, give me a minute to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u258	Here you go, Mr. Ausgeakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u259	As far as the championships you have asked are concerned, I would like to tell you that, in general, the events and their development, if the Treaties permit, is the responsibility of the authorities, the organisers, whether they are a litigation or federations. As far as the football events are concerned, I would like to inform you that with the FSA we signed yesterday, training at Super League 2 is already allowed. Super League 1 is progressing normally and will also slowly start the training and preparations for the restarting of the championship and this category, as long as the organizer approves it. This also applies to other institutions. They will judge whether their remaining space is capable of completing their championship or organization. In that we are clear, we have implemented it in the previous period, so that the state does not decide in absentia. The state keeps back, always with respect for the suggestions of the infectious, and on the other hand the organizers, the full picture of the program to be followed and completed, take the final decision and we support them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u260	Thank you very much, Minister. The organizers, however, are told in the press. I don't know what they say to you. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u261	Mr Ausgeakis, before I begin my speech I have a phrase. The intensity with which you gave me your answer does not cover the void on the substance of the answer because saying that it is a very interesting and useful tool and "will" is a distance...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u262	...USOK...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u263	Now I'm talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u264	Mr. Undersecretary, he didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u265	Now I'm on the phone. Not like that. I'm forbidding now. Then if you want, take the word and say what you want. I repeat, if you so wish, that the intensity of your answer does not cover its gap, because I would expect you to say that 'the timetable is this and we will proceed with it'. The Prime Minister has promised that. And now you tell me about useful tools! We know how those politicians who do not do this talk have a mistake, but they have thought of something bigger, with a promise that is not progressing in practice. And don't get excited. That's not bad. A failure is a failure. Ladies and gentlemen, as a Parliamentary representative of PASOK, the Change Movement to the Budget of 2021, I will be on two points. The first point relates to a number of issues relating to the social budget for next year and the second to the mismatch which many times finds a reason for reform, that is, reform, and the content of policies that do not correspond to the titles. EPPYY. I'm proud to say that this is a creation of my own that was done with races, with sacrifices, with the Ministry of Health for more than a month closed and me working in a car. Now everyone has realised that this public monopsone is alpha and omega in the field of health. When its operation began for 2012, we started with the financing of EEAS 1.2 billion euros. In 2013, funding became 1,1 billion, and today, ladies and gentlemen, it is 300 million, of which 170 million are planned for national vaccination by COVID -19. What would the Minister for Health say in speaking on this point exactly? My second issue, which concerns the social budget, is related to the ECA. I made a reference yesterday to Mr Brutsi and I do it with the complete documentation today. On December 31, 2019, EKKA’s outstandings were 151,496 retarded main pensions, 91,100 late subsidiary and about 41,000 late one. That's right last year! This year, major pensions 171.550, supplementary pensions 21.500 and about 60,000 delays in one-off, that is, some tens of thousands more people have been added to the list of those waiting for pension and waiting and waiting and I don't know how much longer they will wait. You didn't do well here, too. Now in the revenues of the ECA, the EEA and the OAED, given the recession with which we are entering 2021 - a problem for any government, not just for your own, we should not blame anyone and none - you predict 500 million more to be drawn in favour of these three agencies. I think that the budget here lies outside the reality. Mr. Stavura, I'm glad you're here. Because I respect your diligence very much, I looked at all the paintings you gave us yesterday. Staying in the social budget, part of which is health, and speaking about health in this respect, you have given a table in response to SYRIZA telling you that we are second from the end - I am referring to Table 1.8 - which relates to the European average of health expenditure in this tragic period. The painting can answer SYRIZA, but it doesn't respond to needs. It shows that your government is not responding to needs. The average per 100 thousand inhabitants in the European Union, which makes their state a test, is fifty-three for Greece, while the European average is eighty-six. Answering SYRIZA is a need for bipartite logic. But answering citizens' agony is another matter when you're back on average about the tests. Our President, Mrs Gennimata, has put this issue of tests in the spring of April, during the first lockdown. Why did you give us that painting? This table facilitates criticism of the government, Minister, and not you who have tabled it. As far as liquidity is concerned in the market now, your tables again. I thank you very much for tabling tables, because I have the opportunity to see exactly where things are going and to disagree or agree on numbers, namely the more stable part of a budget and a political confrontation for the economic and social states. You give from TPT II, from guarantee and the other EUR 5.3 billion on the liquidity market. Another 5.5 billion is the repayable advance. It makes us close to 11 billion. You put all 500 million of the special-purpose allowances and we go to 11.5 billion. Don't blame me. With regard to 'ERGANIS', ECU 1.9 billion is the compensation of workers. Let's just say that that's also cash that isn't. It's a state wage. It's another thing. It's not liquidity in the market. The liquidity in the market is their businesses and their economic potential. But it's a size. So I don't have to worry about it, I add it. With the 50 billion cut in turnover, which the Committee on Research of the National Bank has recorded during this period, namely in the terrible and terrible year 2020, what is happening? Behind the needs. I'm not saying to cover all the damage. It can't be done. However, do not have a claim for liquidity on the market, when the evidence is there. Secondly, from this liquidity, 97% of small and medium-sized enterprises and very small ones have not been helped. 2% belong to the small, that is 97% of the backbone of the Greek economy. The more I make a mistake, the more pleasant my position is. The more I am right, however, the more unpleasant the position of the citizens, Mr Minister, and that is what matters. Finally, I remember Mr Katrin attributes telling you here - Mr Georgiadis above all, not you - that the repayable advance must be investigated in terms of its basis and you said 'no'. But what do we see? That the fourth round of the returner has within four hundred and fifty thousand ATMs. It's good. But the three previous ones had a hundred thousand, ninety thousand and fifty thousand. We were right when we talked about more liquidity in the market. I don't have time to stay more in the numbers I've collected. We will be here today at the rest of the meeting and tomorrow and Tuesday. As long as I can try to be analyst. I come to the second part of my speech, to the mismatch of titles in a reform government, the titles of reforms in terms of policies and, on the other hand, the contents of the reforms. Firstly, something we talked about with Mr Karamanlis a few days ago here in Parliament, on his legislative initiative, is transport. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Listen, ladies and gentlemen. Please listen. You're welcome, Mr. Comrade. The public transport resulting from the state's agreement with the CBELs is per kilometre of 1.41 euros, ladies and gentlemen, OSCE in Athens 2.9 euros per kilometre and OSH in Thessaloniki 4 euros. What's that? You're a government for a year and a half. Don't tell me about SYRIZA. What SYRIZA did, we know. Let's see what you're doing, what your reform intervention is here in the world's critical and national transport sector economy. I accept a policy which says 'less state'. Part of her expresses me. However, I am more concerned with the 'less cost for the State', 'less state costs'. This is what I share with my soul. Same services at less cost. But this is an unacceptable situation here. What do you say? Secondly, the many people I have to mention are investment. How many majority Members, ladies and gentlemen, have they said today about the new investment climate? I wish that will be the case in some time, but at the moment, policies are not organising this when the pandemic is cut. Why? For example, investments in the critical energy sector, in sixteen months you have changed four to five times the investment framework. You are talking about so-called self-production, where the consumer produces his energy. For farmers this is a crucial size. Four to five times you have changed the legislative framework, i.e. legal insecurity, i.e. investment insecurity. The end of investment insecurity is to change its legal conditions in this way. At the same time, as far as the national energy and climate plan is concerned, I read in the "Recipients Newspaper" article by one of our own people, Paris Koukoulopoulos. I read: 'Fair to savings, there is no transport. In the absence of an RES development plan which makes it a unique criterion of placement the possibility of a direct connection to a power transmission network’. I mean, where we got it, that's where we're gonna do it. Plan, we don't plan. Financing the transition? None. The Poles with their fight won. We're not the ones who say the word. In budgetary matters, Minister, you are sensitive. I get it. It is your responsibility that the anxiety and sensitivity arises. The general government deficit - I have said it again - touches the 2009-2010 limits when we entered the first memorandum. Secondly, the debt of 205%, 207%, 210% of the Gross Domestic Product shows a deficit in external trade in well-being. That reminds me of something. Unfortunately, this reminds me of something. You will now tell me: 'It is the whole world, it is the whole of Europe.' That's right. That gives a degree of optimism. But the sitter and his tools after the pandemic retreat and we do not have a state. We don't have a state. To close, what does the state expenditure budget provide for in terms of payment of contributions? I said I would stay on the ground on the basis of the social budget. It provides for 92 million more, ladies and gentlemen. Civil servants have increased. The state's employees have increased by alpha or beta. It provides for EUR 92 million above in relation to October 2019. Is that a policy that is in line with your announcements of an official state? Vassilis Kegeroglu has said something nice. I repeat it because I like it. It's a perfect state we don't see. And here I want to say that since things are like this, how has less bureaucracy been produced to justify, bro, and the more 92 million? More bureaucracy has been caused, especially with the famous signature of the directors General who do not sign you, turning the files back after a couple of months to make the political decision. I therefore believe that we are right to say 'no' in the budget, because on the basis of the two criteria which I mentioned on the one hand the social budget and, on the other hand, the mismatch of speeches and reforming acts, it requires us to do so. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u267	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u268	Mr. Ignace, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u269	I will confine myself to two words that I have to answer to Mr. Loverdos because on his introduction...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u270	Easy, though. We don't have anything personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u271	Yes, Mr. Loverdos. Make suggestions elsewhere. Do them to your party MPs, who you have admittedly not found the appropriate sportsman...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u272	No dialogue to earn time. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, your role is not to intervene or to express an opinion. Your role is to coordinate the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u274	I haven't expressed an opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u275	I said it before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u276	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u277	You have already expressed an opinion on what I have said and that is not permitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u278	No, you're wrong. I do not express any opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u279	So I keep going. Mr. Loverdo, who is, after all, responsible for sport in your party? We're confused with KINAL. You don't know exactly who it is. But since you said hypocrisy, were you not the ones who were discussing the second in a row of law, which is part of the sport reform, did you read your mobile phone so that you could express a view of unconstitutionality? Indeed - I lend your words - it is not wrong to say that you have failed, then in an attempt to prove to some of your friends, who at the last minute were trying to show you the way to form a point of view. Who? You. [[Noise from the wing of the Change Movement]] Look, I'm talking to you, Mr. Loverdo. Don't look back. I'm talking to you, not your colleagues back. I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u280	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u281	I'm talking to you. So I'm continuing, Mr. Loverdo...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u282	Easy, easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u283	Mr. Loverdo, he didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u284	It's nice when you don't have anything to say, you're making a number of suggestions to your colleagues. I answer you in particular. Then you lost the ball. Unfortunately, you, with such a course, have entered a process to serve, through messages, please, various friends, saying here in the House things you cannot follow. About unconstitutionalism. I'm coming to second for the timeline. Mr. Loverdo, are you elsewhere? This is where the market, society, the championship, sport, everything goes back, because pandemic is picking, and you are asking for implementation here and now? I told you. But you probably didn't hear it, you didn't want to hear it. But this is a regular PASOK tactic and now KINAL. Others tell you, but you say, 'cause you think you're talking to another world. People understand. So I said, and I repeat for those who are following us - you understand everything you want - that the timetable for the implementation of the holistic study in terms of the state will be carried out in full, will follow in full, consistently, everything in the bill that we are now bringing. In addition, however, the EEA, which is one of the competent, lumps, PPP, FIFA, UEFA, is taking part in the implementation of the holistic study with evolution. Part of this will come with the election of the new administration of the NGO, which was transferred, due to quarantine and coronary, rather to Genaris, as it seems. That's about timeline. Mr Loverdo, you are not allowed to say it. It is identical to the course of PASOK, the party you followed and served for so many years. The "will" not be to us. We speak with effect and with work.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u285	The debate, however, concerns the budget and we have gone elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u286	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u287	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u288	I'm not going to watch the tension because I have nothing personal with you. On whether I lost the ball somewhere, you don't know "ball", you have no idea of football, of ball in general. As regards what you say, it is a 'loss of the ball', I would like to clarify one thing. The question of the constitutionality of the law I have not mentioned to you today - you keep it to me, it seems - was not judged in court. Nikos Alvizatou's opinion says too much. When the time comes to judge and if it is judged, there will be judged if you are right to tell me about 'loss of the ball'. You know what? You may not know a ball, but you must have one, in a way, consent to those who speak. We all have our rights and our mistakes. But when the Prime Minister has come here before all the political leaders and a full parliament and has said "no more lies, this will happen from now on" and when the text came, the memorandum came, you haven't done anything yet and you tell me that it's impossible to speak with "will" and "will" you, you're wrong. You are 'out of the field'. When you enter the field sometime, we'll see the action. However, because we count, remember the day of December 13, 2020. We will see when this memorandum will be applied. Mr President, I am so sorry. So, because there is COVID -19 did the House stop legislating? Did the feds stop working? With modern technology, we all work. That is not a reason for COVID -19 not to establish a text - a text is that - on its main lines, if not on everything. It must be put in place. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u289	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u290	Mr Stavros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u291	No, Mr. President. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u292	No, Mr. Ausgarian. Then the parliamentary representative will want to answer. You tell me "half a minute" and go to four minutes. I know you don't respect me. That's not what I'm worried about. I am concerned that the budget debate will proceed. We're not going to make a sports bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u293	Mr President, for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u294	Here, you have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u295	Mr. Loverdo, I repeat. The timetable is for all stakeholders. As far as we are concerned, we are absolutely consistent. In the next few weeks, the Ministry of Sport brings together a bill containing instruments and issues relating to the state. However, as far as all other stakeholders are concerned, they have gone back because of COVID -19 all their activities. One more thing. I'm a political leader of the Ministry of Sports, I'm neither a football player in Greece nor a basketball team. We are not judging whether we know how to play ball, but whether or not we are consistently serving the whole of sport and not some 'carcedaurs' who, by magic, serve and represent you, Mr Loverdo, and your party.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u296	Thank you very much, Mr Ausgeakis. Mr Stavros, the Minister of Finance, has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u297	Thank you very much, Mr President. On the part of Mr Loverdou's position, I would like to speak a little bit about the budget. He made a very serious position, with serious assessments or reflections, which employ the financial staff as well. That is why we should be very careful. We have never triumphantly triumphed from our side, but we are never in danger. Indeed, the debt will increase, the deficits will increase, there will be budgetary flexibility, but permanently Mr Skakakis and I repeat that other budgetary flexibility and other financial derailment. We also have to admit that since 2012, the debt profile has improved significantly, which is an excellent cause in the country over the years. We are satisfied with the management of the crisis, but we are not triumphant. You talked about liquidity. It is exactly what you have said. In fact, you have confirmed that only these elements I have given are twice as much as what SYRIZA is saying today that the government is giving society. It will only be possible to tell you that, in Europe, liquidity measures are not just those. For example, tax debt suspensions, tax delays, are a classic liquidity enhancement measure across Europe for entrepreneurship. For example, the non-payment of the tax advance in 2019-2 billion EUR less received the state budget - is a measure to strengthen business liquidity. Are we going to cover all the losses? Oh, no. But we do the best we can to cover the biggest part. Last comment on health issues. I submitted the updated tables yesterday. Obviously, it is not the situation that deserves to be heard, but we are not first expenditure. That's the reality. I testified the whole study. And I told you, because you have legitimately raised two concerns and yesterday in private, that, in principle, this information will be updated by all countries. And we have done expenditure from the reserve, after the date that the OECD has incorporated, which has not entered here. Therefore, they will actually be added and the amount will be raised. There is, however, an interesting element. You will allow me to mention this because your intervention was very correct. We can't see the evidence alone. We also need to assess them in relation to other indicators. One indicator that I use - and I looked into - is the cases, that is, the extent of the health crisis in each country. The number of cases per million population, so that it is not the comparison of unequal. What results from this study?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u298	The number of tests doesn't count?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u299	I told you an indicator. We can take the tests, too. If you've done the test study, do the tests. Have you done the test study? I'm telling you a study I've done. Of the sixteen countries that, according to the OECD graph, have made higher per capita health costs for coronary virus than Greece, thirteen had a higher number of cases per million population and, in fact, ten of these thirteen had more than twice the number of cases per million population compared with Greece. The only three countries that have incurred higher health costs for the coronary, although they have a lower number of cases per million, are Germany, Finland and Norway. Five countries appear to have incurred lower expenditure than Greece, although they had more cases per million population: Portugal, Austria, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Latvia. So, yes, we have to look at the facts, we have to look at them with particular attention, exchange arguments and I think that everyone's will is to help as long as we can the public health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u300	Thank you very much, Minister. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr. Spilios Lebanese has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, the "gordian bond" that Mr.Augerakis has cut off at the Ministry of Sports has annoyed many, many established interests and people and artisans that have been bleaking Greek sport for decades. And maybe that's why it creates enmity. I think, however, that the whole parliamentary group and the majority of the Greek people, who love sport, are supporting their work and that seems to be daily. This year's budget is being submitted to the most difficult and uncertain conditions. Last year the data has been violently overturned. We came up against unprecedented, almost existential issues. We have faced and are still facing a health crisis that has overthrown everyone's lives, endangering public health and leaving a deep print on the economy. I have not lost almost a minute of this debate since Friday, and I must tell you that both the Minister and the Deputy Minister and the Deputy Minister of Finance are here, they respond specifically to all the objections, all the positions of the opposition parties and their representatives. It is perhaps the first time that a government at such a difficult time comes and is placed with tables, with numbers - not by aerating - by supporting its policy at this difficult time that we all live in our country. However, we were given the opportunity at this time to reflect and review what is worthwhile and what ultimately counts at the end of the day, to reconstruct the value of human life, self-sacrifice for the fellowman and ultimately the offering of science, to rule over priorities again. Evidently, the Greek Government was forced to adjust the budget under discussion to new data, as the course of the economy depends on the development of the pandemic and in the immediate future on the circulation of the vaccine. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the facts are the ones that define developments, as British Prime Minister McMillan has said, and two good colleagues have mentioned it today and yesterday. But this adaptability, which you accuse, shows intelligence rather than weakness. And because a budget other than numbers includes values and logic, it's at least unbelievable to leave the government for this adjustment. It is at least vulgar to characterize, you of SYRIZA, the Prime Minister as a "political deceit" and you will allow me to say that it is absolutely childish to speak at the same time about "Mitsotakis vulture". You cannot understand the world - wide changes that are taking place. The government has since faced its pandemic and consequences with serious, consistent and effective consequences. There have been mistakes in this difficult process, but first of all - and I address this to my Greek colleagues who said that we are not making self-criticism - the Prime Minister recognised the whole of the ministers - and then corrected them. There can be more to be done, which we will accept and move on. Today, at the most difficult turning point, we are moving with restraint and we are optimistic about the advent of the vaccine. We are preparing for its safe mood and we are trying to isolate - and in this we call on the entire political world to help us - conspiracies and denies that frighten and confuse public opinion. In this difficult landscape we are preparing for the transition of the country to the post-COVID era, a new era for modern democratic society, where we need to conclude - and this will be done by the New Democracy Government - a new agreement on reform and progress with citizens and citizens. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is working hard, with a plan and rationality, committed to its reform vision, both outside the House and with the parliamentary work that goes on, so that no opportunity is lost, so that we can regain hope and re-enter development, social well-being and social justice. To justify and strengthen the relationship of confidence that we have built since the first time we have taken over governance with citizens, since it is honesty and consistent, modernising the state, without calculating political costs. The government is tabling a budget reflecting the moderate optimism of transitioning from the darkness of the pandemic to the light of the next day. And this transition to economic sizes is translated from the recession of about 10.5% this year to growth of about 4.8% of the year. At the same time, the government submitted Greece's recovery plan, a modern Marshall plan, which includes investment and reforms in all areas, development, digital modernisation, social cohesion and justice. The use of these 32 billion euros is a great opportunity for our country, for all of us, a great opportunity - perhaps the last - but also a great challenge to move forward in the radical reorganisation of our national economy, in the fight against poverty and inequality and in a development for all. One would expect this difficult moment for the country and the Greeks all parties to realize that this may be a last chance to prove together as a political system that we learn from the mistakes and oligopoly of the past, to ask ourselves whether such exhibitions such as Varvaressos and Marakopoulos in the 1950s, Declares and Spraus had not been left in the drawers, how different the course of society and the economy today would be. Unfortunately, all you are doing, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, all these three days, but also outside this House, is constantly turning reality into a neoliberal report, for example, by presenting the Pissaridis report as a neoliberal report and at the same time - that is the crazy - semantic ideas. This, however, your opposition strategy, in the absence of a vision, a plan and specific progressive proposals, is trying to give your false arguments an ideological alternative, constantly repeating your theory of liberal, neoliberal, abstract government choices. You see everywhere and here - and we all imagine when you're sleeping - neoliberal ghosts. But the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, is not and has never been neo-liberal. It was, is and will be the great folklore, radical and liberal party of progress and social justice. This is confirmed by our actions and our policies over time. With the shallow, symbolic characterizations and your lies you cannot convince anyone, not even those who voted for you in the last elections. You're falling into contradictions. You are exercising a post-real opposition, as you are actually turning government decisions and policies into policies at hand, so that you yourself may eventually disagree with them. Create doubles to divide. You are the party of 'anti-dumping'. You are not a party of principles and programmes, but a product of the crisis and you are always looking to find a crisis to exist, a party that has the only adhesive to want to take over the joints of power. The same tactic, unfortunately, is followed in your criticism of the National Health System. You are also turning reality here when you are talking about supposedly a deep ideological disrespect of the New Democracy into the ESS. The New Democracy believes precisely in a powerful National Health System, as well as a private medical sector that acts complementary and supportive. And we are not talking about this now, after the crisis. We've always talked about it. Let me remind you - Mr. Voutsis is here, and Mr. Voutsis can help you look at the Minutes of previous years - what Panagiotis Kanellepoulou, the great spiritual and political leader of our resignation, said in a prophetic speech from that seat there in this House in 1983. Canelopoulos said at that time: "I fully agree with the establishment of the National Health System. Let Greece keep a balance between the National Health System and the private medical initiative. Never reach extremities." That was and is our firm position for the health system. Do not forget, however, that it was also Spyros Doxiadis, this fragile Minister of the New Democracy, who, with his own plan for public health, who was unable to vote, basically laid the foundations for the historic reform of the ESS by PASOK, then, on Friday Agnes and George Gennimatas. That's the story, and it's good not to question it. Instead of splitting up the Greek people and entering an anachronistic, ideological debate on the EHS, we invite you, of course, to come with serious proposals to the debate on the reform of this National Health System, so that we can move together in areas and break the bad texts to reorder health policy, but based on scientifically documented approaches rather than simple ideologies. Because a modern, powerful and rewarding health system, beyond its obvious and self-evident utility and necessity for citizens' health, will also work for economic development by strengthening health tourism, strengthening so-called Silver Economy and attracting digital groups, a kind of workers that will become increasingly frequent in the next few years. [[At this point the First Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the criticality of the moments requires from all of them fewer words, more restraint and harder work, with the thought of all our fellow citizens being tested and with respect for those who daily risk their own life by serving the fellow man. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. I will close with something that reflects our overall perspective of policy. As characteristics were explained by Obama in his recent book released, and it is good that we all read it when a counselor after a failed performance of them in a debate said to him: "Priority, your problem is that you answer exactly what they ask you. You have to do at first that you answer and then just say your poem." Obama looked at him, as he says in his book, and he objected: "But these are Bullshits" and his counselor answering: "Just. What do you think we're doing? Isn't that what we do in politics?' We in the New Democracy, therefore, do not agree with the advisor, as others do in the Chamber. We choose the difficult path of no - Bullshits politics in Obama's language. We choose the path of truth and responsibility, because the path of truth is the only one that can inspire hope in the tired society that it so much needs, it is the only one that can give tangible solutions and inspire again trust in institutions and politics, it is the only one that can lead to the modernisation of our social and political structures, because it is the only one that will lead the country to the real clearing of social and economic transformation. We therefore call on all those who choose this very path of truth to join the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and the majority I would say to the Greek people who support this policy and to vote in favour of this budget which is a budget of seriousness, hope and development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u302	Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of the ninth cycle. Today we must also have closed the twelfth cycle of Members. I should first like to address the Ministers. There will be no tolerance beyond your speaking time. We do not have parliamentary control, nor do we have a bill debate, so that a Member of Parliament can say something, that the Minister can answer or that when the Minister speaks to all the parliamentary representatives. This is to the detriment of the Members. I have to try to speak as many colleagues as possible. I am sorry to be bad, but that was the unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents. There will be no secondary periods of office and I would ask Parliamentary Representatives not to speak immediately after each Minister, other than the Minister of Finance, because of the nature of the debate, which is the budget, in exceptional circumstances, to ask and to take, if necessary, for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u303	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Minister. So please, too. On Tuesday you know that since 13.00 the MPs are stopping. They start with a reverse time for the Chiefs to rise. I tell you that, if we do not try, at least 50 Members will not speak and that is bad. So please. We are moving on with Mr Vassiliou from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in these days when the specific restrictive measures are being applied, most of us have spent a lot of time in our constituencies, where we have experienced the consequences of pandemic firsthand. I am sure that every corner of Greece has to deal with particular problems and all of us together have to stand up to the end of the nightmare that our generation had to experience. My recent experiences with Pella, the regional unity which has been most severely hit by this second epidemiological wave, have shown me that the government's economic policy for 2021 should move on two axes: In the first half of the year and until the end of the ambitious government vaccination programme, priority should be given to protecting jobs and entrepreneurship with the emphasis on supplementing the great loss of income of many sectors. The virtually lost period of holidays for retailers and focus creates problems of business survival and therefore of jobs. We must support these two branches that have perhaps been hit more than anyone else by the consequences of the pandemic. In particular for small and medium-sized commercial enterprises, financial instruments should be activated to ensure the necessary working capital for their operation. The necessary restrictive measures still affect the primary sector, affecting crops such as vegetable products and vines. In these cases too, the loss of income must be restricted by means of some aid. In addition, tourism, the country's so-called 'heavy industry' and its largest employer, is facing the biggest blow this year in recent years. Especially in destinations such as the Pozar Baths or winters like the Voras ski resort in Pella where destinations remain inoperative, but hotels and tourist companies have not been closed and are considered to be affected, interventions with a higher impact should be considered. That is where we must intervene to limit the loss of revenue. The first objective remains the one that the New Democracy Government has set for the first time, the maintenance of jobs, so that, when the pandemic is over, the businesses have survived and the workers can return to their jobs. In this field, the Ministry of Labour in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the competent staff have shown that they meet the requirements of the times. Let me also mention the need to support seasonal workers, particularly processing and processing plants for agricultural products, which failed to complete the number of annual posts required to qualify for an unemployment subsidy. The public position of the Minister's will to reduce the number of characters from a hundred to fifty finds us fully in agreement and we await the relevant legislation immediately. The second economic policy axis of 2021 should concern the reconstruction of the Greek economy, the rapid return to growth and the coordinate position of our country in the new international economic reality. The moves of the New Democracy Government have proved its credibility and restored the confidence of international markets and European partners in the Greek economy. Our participation in the Recovery Fund and favourable borrowing conditions must be exploited in a context of fair distribution with a sound developmental figure and with targeted interventions with a high impact. At the same time, the New Democracy reform programme needs to be accelerated. Priority should be given, in my view, to modernising the country's infrastructure. As far as Pella is concerned, the opportunity to ensure the final funding for the National Road Axis Thessaloniki - Edessa should not be lost. Additional irrigation works such as the Almopian river dam which will boost the primary sector, namely the base of the Greek economy, must go ahead. Besides, investment in agricultural production in Greece can help increase the extroversion of the economy. Greek farmers must have access to flexible funding which will allow them to proceed to extensive product certification so that their products gain goodwill in the international market. The reintroduction of excise duty, so-called 'agricultural oil', is a measure that should be examined seriously by the Government as it will contribute to reducing production costs. And finally, we are going to run the modernisation of the ELGA with regard to agricultural compensation. Once again we understood how out-of-date his regulation was when it did not provide for compensation for the damage caused by the Mediterranean Cyclone 'Thalia' last August. Mr President, on a point that I have raised since this step, I will be returning to the need to give minor support to crops such as peaches and nectarines directly, as a long time has passed during which producers are recording losses on their incomes. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to make it clear that any action to relaunch the country should be fair, well-scheduled and targeted. Last year in my respective speech in the budget debate I was talking about the creation of a State guarantor of fair, healthy competition that protects workers, the environment and free economic activity. We must avoid creating state-based businesses and workers. We must avoid creating today the conditions that will bring about a new debt crisis in a few years, such as the one our generation has experienced. The government must remain faithful to the principles of the New Democracy by applying the budget we are called upon to vote on today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u306	Well done, Mr. Vasiliadis. If you were a new colleague, you were in time. Mr Miltiadis Hatzigiannakis has the floor now from SYRIZA. Then he will take the floor for the time that the Minister is entitled to, Mr. Tsiaras. Ends the ninth cycle and we enter the tenth. Mr Katsaniotis, Mrs Augeris, Mr Liupis and Mr Mulkiotis will speak and the Minister will be given the floor after that. Here, Mr. Hatzigiannakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u307	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that coming here was, like most of you, writing a speech, but here I decided not to use my papers at all and at all the speech I had prepared for the budget. Because really everything I've heard from the government ministers here made me not believe in my ears. Mr Aygeakis, I honestly had no intention of making a reference to the part of sport, but it was really like seeing a magical picture, as if we don't live in that country, that we live in another country where our sport goes a train - as we say about our teams - and our fields were not all climaxes. Yesterday I happened to be on one of the Olympic real estate - on those walks we all do - on the beach volleyball stadium and I really saw the program that the government has made to go without a stop, at an amazing rate! All the stadiums of the country are called municipal stages, whether they belong to the regions or to the state, to the Ministry of Sports, their infrastructures have actually been upgraded and are a model for all European countries - that is what you have at least transferred us here - with a public investment programme that you have not let fall into euros! The only reality you mentioned is the "PHILOPH II", which you said was "GEOFTER". It wasn't "GREATS", no "GREATS" were. You have just taken SYRIZA's program, precisely the program that had coordinated and prepared the Ministry of Interior with the Ministry of Sports, and just as the municipal works had joined, that's exactly how you implement it. You haven't even started it, but anyway, it will be implemented, the projects are integrated. Fortunately, you have taken a ready-to-eat tool, a groundbreaking tool, which Mr Theodorikos had first arranged to serve and say that there is obviously no money, that the funds have not been guaranteed, that the European Investment Bank has not guaranteed the 1.3 billion that the programme was saying. You, the 2.5 billion you say about Antonis Tritsis as you renamed it correctly - you could have told you before from the House that you have given him various names - you have guaranteed them. However, you have still not brought us the contract with the European Investment Bank to remain quiet and the mayors have in fact drawn up the projects and programmes you have prepared, in fact copying the 'PHILOS II' programme, will be drawn up and will not be at risk of financing them. Mr Levane, let's see exactly what you told us about a truth agreement. The only thing we haven't heard from New Democracy is the truth. You show things and evidence according to your will. You live in a virtual reality, away from society and unfortunately away from the problems she has. And the truth is that I can give you a point from now on: your policy is not even neoliberal, and it certainly has nothing to do with liberalism. The New Democracy has never been a liberal party and I could marginally call it neoliberal. The New Democracy over time was a party of customer relations, which only knew was to engender power and consider it its own property. It had nothing to do with neoliberalism in other states, unfortunately. Mr Stavoura, Minister, I understood that in response to the objections of colleagues in the opposition you said that you did not appreciate correctly in March and made predictions, but that is what other Eurozone countries did. At least that's what I understood. So you told us you were wrong, you just did it. The zero recession you said in March that there would be in 2020 was disguised, but Spain and some other countries did so. So now that you have brought us the bodies that guess the development that you say about 2021, you are likely to come back in three months to tell us again that the other bodies were also wrong. At least that's what I understand. I wish we were disgusting. But these are what we see reading your three texts. New Democracy colleague, who spoke before me, rightly speaking to fellow citizens in his region, spoke about support for retail trade and small entrepreneurship, which is at risk of locking up. How will this small business and retail trade be saved, which is not just in danger, but more than 50% of them will be closed? Already here, if you return to the center of Athens, many shops of health interest have been rented. He's not on parole, he's rented. We can take a walk - if you want - and obviously the whole province is the same. So the three indicative texts, the current budget that we are debating, the Pissaridis plan and this preliminary draft, whatever conclusions it can draw from the Recovery Fund, give us exactly what the figures are, give us exactly your policy. They show that what you aim to do with whatever money, they won't go to the real economy, they won't go to small entrepreneurship, which you obviously consider unnecessary. They will go to great projects, they will go to repayments for investments that cannot be made, like the Greek one. You will try to help them, give them loans, to which at the moment they are not prepared or even before the supposed investors were willing to put. And so once again we will have your own tested failure model, what went bankrupt last time in the country. Because you went bankrupt, someone else didn't go bankrupt. And finally to close with self-government, the budget is again indicative. Two hundred ten million less for 2021 and the pretext what is it? That in 2020 you gave more due to the pandemic. In other words, the mayors hear this, the CEDEFOP hears it - which, in the vast majority of them, are yours - and they creep! You have given more time for 2021, as if there were no pandemics in time - I close, Mr President, and thank you - as if we should not pay the school cleaners, which you do not cover overtime, and you have half the hours of part-time work, and as if we should not have to take the children, the students, as they have taken too many municipalities, because the final-state was not even able to provide. Obviously, we are voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u308	The Minister for Justice will now take the floor, Mr. Konstantinos Tsiaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u309	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget vote is traditionally a top parliamentary procedure, an opportunity to unfold the policies and initiatives planned for next year. However, it is also a top political process of accountability for the executive in the legislature, which, as we all recognise, is also the quintussy of the civilisation of the Parliamentary Republic. It is therefore an opportunity to highlight the coherence of the government's policies, which ultimately constitute the integrated strategy of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, according to the mandate he received from Greek citizens in July 2019. Despite the unfavourable juncture that has emerged from the pandemic in our country, as of course throughout Europe - we do not need to repeat all of what has been heard too many times by many speakers from Stepa - the government has remained committed to its reform plan. At the Ministry of Justice we fully implemented the commitments that we made, just a year ago, here, in this Chamber. In particular, we have the new framework for mediation, which is fully implemented. Approximately one fifth of the new business and civil affairs of the regular intermediation process have managed to resolve their differences outside the courtrooms, easier, faster, at less cost, while the new institutional framework has transformed the initial session from a compulsorily conscious choice for the parties involved, to a considerable extent by discharging the system of justice. At the same time, we attempted interventions, which produced tangible results in all areas of justice, at all levels. We have responded to our commitments to strengthen the spiritual potential of justice. Sixty-five new organic judicial posts in civil justice were established by Law 4869/2020. We have safeguarded the international image of the country as a rule of law. We restored the malicious character of the offense of active bribery, which had been degraded by the previous government to a mere flood and for which the GRECO and OECD international organisations were prosecuting the country, under the responsibility of the previous government. We restored security for Greek citizens, with amendments to the Criminal Code. We have produced the largest digital action programme and we are implementing the strategy for electronic justice. We are moving on to upgrade the integrated judicial management systems, both for administrative and criminal justice. We are constantly integrating new processes into the 'gov.gr' platform and expanding the interconnection of systems with citizens' services centres to improve citizens' accessibility to digital certificates. We're setting up the e-mail file for justice. Ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time, the lodging of pleadings will only be done electronically, in the ordinary administrative courts and in the Council of State, while stepping up actions to extend the electronic lodgement of pleadings to civil courts. We have established electronic performance, and together with the Ministry of Digital Policy we implement twenty-eight targeted actions that improve the daily lives of citizens. We are making substantial reforms in judicial education. We have recommended the direction of peacekeepers at the National School of Judges, which is the greatest regulation in judicial education in recent years. We proceed in the next period, in cooperation with the school's management, to reform the school's operating framework, by enriching the curriculum, by changing the introductory competition, training actions, by evaluating trainees and trainers. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the small percentage of the Ministry of Justice, of course, in terms of operating costs, in the overall state budget, the added value that justice produces for the whole economy is enormous. The existence of a rule of law, the speed of administration of justice, the consolidation of transparency rules, independence and the effectiveness of justice are key factors in attracting new investments and taking investment initiatives. The Ministry remains committed to the implementation of the necessary reforms, which ensure the speeding up of the administration of justice, without reductions in the quality of its decisions, without reductions and concessions affecting the operational and personal independence of judicial officers. We have already established the special sections in the major courts of the country, the Court of First Instance and the Court of Appeal, Athens and Thessaloniki, where the cases of energy, personal data and telecommunications will be dealt with, which have a strong development footprint for our national economy. At the same time, we have already legislated on the possibility of setting up a special office for justice statistics. We map, in this way, the true situation of Greek justice and draw up the roadmap for the necessary reforms, which will make our judicial system more effective. The next time, in fact, the procedures for the adoption of the Presidential Decree are being completed so that the new office can be officially opened up. At the same time, we move forward with the adoption of the new Code of Judiciary, which has already been announced by the Ministerial Council. We are thus making a commitment to modernising the administration of justice, and of course we are introducing new branches of judicial officers who will assist the judges. We thus release judges from bureaucratic gears in order to dedicate themselves to their judicial work. At the same time, the aim of the Ministry of Justice is, in the next year, to complete the drafting of the new Code of Justice and Judicial Officers, while gradually completing the project to amend the new Code of Civil Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Justice again, despite limited expenditure in the Public Investment Programme, claims a very large share of the resources of the Recovery Fund for the modernisation of services and for the upgrading of justice infrastructures. That is why we have tabled a comprehensive proposal to finance new, modern building infrastructures throughout the country. To upgrade existing buildings we have activated modern financial instruments, such as public partnerships with the private sector. At the same time, we are reforming the framework for the operation of the Court of Justice Fund, known to all FFOs, for the implementation of a multi-annual veterinary justice programme, which is to be found in all the districts of the territory. Ladies and gentlemen, a distinct objective of the Ministry is integrated intervention to strengthen the protection of human rights, through the action plan on human rights, the integrated strategy against racism, intolerance and hate and the functioning of the national mechanism for monitoring and evaluating an action plan on the rights of the child, and it is known that the Ministry is planning, with the help, I hope, and hope, of all the parties in this House, the reform of family law. In the same context, we are planning to reform the social structures of the Ministry of Justice, the Minors' Society and the Child's Home, as well as forensic services. Ladies and gentlemen, 2020 has been and remains a difficult year. In the new year, with all that is done, we have to be honest - and that is a lot of uncertainties. But he brings with him the optimism and confidence that comes from the scientific achievements against the pandemic with the discovery of the vaccine for COVID -19. With the commitment to targeting, with the insistence on the reform programme of the Government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, we will succeed. We'll make it by supporting our weakest fellow citizens. We will succeed by creating the conditions for the recovery and development of our national economy. We will manage by strengthening and truly supporting the rule of law. With these thoughts, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote in favour of the State Budget of 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u310	Me too, Mr. Chiara. Medicine has been torn apart. On time! We should also praise the doctors for our home a little bit. Mr Katsaniotis now has the floor and Mrs Auger.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, Mr President. Today my thought and heart is in Cape Rachi, where my family along with the rest of the Kalavrytans seventy years ago paid the price for freedom. In their memory, I would like to wish that Greece does not relive any kind of Holocaust, with responsibility for the same players. The defence of our national issues lies above all, especially at a time when the eastern dangerous enemy finds once again a wishful ear to the German Government. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an unprecedented health threat. They don't exist. No one, but nobody can safely predict not just what will happen next year, but not even next month. In this context, a budget setting priorities for the 2021 national economy is being drawn up and moves to two levels: the first is the need to stimulate and support the real economy for the first period of the new year, which we all know will be very difficult. And the second level relates to the post-COVID era, a period of hard work for a substantial reversal of the national economy, relocating national production with the full and effective use of all available resources. But, I repeat, there are certainties not only in Greece, but nowhere in the world. However, what I can surely say to the shop owner who does not open for the holidays, to the small Greek businessman who is struggling for his job, to the Greek farmer who sees his production buy at a low price is that the party that is currently in the governance of the place has proved in practice that he stood alongside him and will continue to stand as long as this evil lasts. We are here to serve the Greek citizen and especially the weak, the non-preferential. We are well aware that our responsibility is national and historical. We are well aware that the great fight we have before us is the upgrading of national production and the economy. This means not only support but regeneration of the national production, it means regeneration of the Greek company, especially of the small, regeneration of the national agricultural and livestock production, regeneration of the country's commercial and transport power, regeneration of the tourist industry, regeneration based on the use of innovation produced by Greek minds, a country that will produce and export. But it also means something else: speed and efficiency. Society and the economy cannot wait long. Any action taken specifically now must also reach the last citizen, in a direct and practical way, to improve his daily life. I have to stand up to the difficult everyday life that most Greeks face, especially after the second lockdown, and looking at them in the eyes to tell them that we are here to give all of us the battle of the prestige for the next day. However, I am thinking more about the owners of commercial stores, who have been filled with goods and closed their doors after ten years of crisis. I address them by saying that I will do anything to help them stand on their feet. And we must, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, strengthen them. Design a support programme specifically for them, for small traders who have family businesses or very few workers, the neighborhood shops, the backbone of the commercial world. Ladies and gentlemen, mistakes have certainly been made. Of course, there have been omissions. Of course, they did not all come to an end, as we expected or planned. I must repeat that we are facing an unprecedented situation. None of us have such a management experience. And those who believe they can stand up to the pandemic are deeply nightclubs. We don't have SYRIZA's attitude. His climbing power in 2015 relied on the policies of destruction and division. He's trying the same today, but he's not coming out. It will not come out because it is disgusting on the one hand, the world reality and on the other, a government which, despite the enormous problems it has been asked to face, maintains with stability and soundness the helm of the country. We, New Democracy, are the party that knows to think patriotically, because greater patriotism than mighty Greece does not exist and there is a strong Greece without national production we will never have. Ladies and gentlemen, after ten hard years of economic crisis, we have had the misfortune to hit by the pandemic. The same frustration dominates all of us. The recession, the decline in GDP, the increase in private and public debt are some figures. For us, however, behind the numbers there are always people, the Greeks who are called after their liberation to build the new productive model for the development of the country. Over the next few years, over 70 billion euros will be used by Greece. We all have to ask ourselves what is best for our country, for the future of the next generations: do we want an economy that supports the atheist-centric development or rebuild Greece by giving the region a central role? The regional model that I support should strengthen the primary sector, the regional universities, the technology that offers major regional research centres, the tourism sector. The other country in the province needs an improvement in the quality of life. Its citizens must be able to find work at their place and raise their children in a clean and stable environment. Roadworks, services, sports centres, medicine, abolition of uncontrolled land, investment in the natural environment. Now is a great opportunity for the Greek region to relive. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to vote for a budget in the belief that we are getting close to the exit of the pandemic tunnel, so we will be able to disprove it for the better. Because what we can anticipate today is not enough. It will only satisfy us if we overcome the bar that we are putting in one year from now in the next budget debate, looking into the eyes of each Greek and every Greek, with truths and not lies, with acts and not numbers, we are talking about Greece which is fighting and winning, Greece of work, production and advancement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u312	Mrs Theodora Augeris has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government that presented its economic plan for 2021, as it should, should be open to criticism of its actions in 2020, which are tragic in both the area of the management of the pandemic and the economy for the vast majority of the Greek people. You are to blame for your strong, hard and persistent criticism. But he's not a spinner. Strava Armenia, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. How could our criticism be different in the face of the size and your failure and your responsibilities? What do you expect us to give you, too, a merchandise that you have not shown or shown the willingness of national understanding to deal with the pandemic, which, on the contrary, you are taking advantage of the extraordinary treaty to pass an entirely anti-social agenda, which you have every day shown in every direction that you do not tolerate criticism, social control and accountability? We are appalled by the losses of pandemic in our country over recent years and we are equally frightened by the government's loss of any sense of responsibility for the evolution of things that seem to be surpassing the thousands of human dramas, to face as simple numbers three and a half thousand people with a name and surname who have so far lost their lives. Come to Thessaloniki, come to northern Greece to hear the lamentation, feel the pain. None of this touched the Prime Minister who came as a tourist in Thessaloniki two weeks ago. Mr. Mitsotakis did not see or hear the vibrant cry of the doctors and nurses of the hospitals of Thessaloniki, who were crowned by forces and strength. On the contrary, our Prime Minister showed his photographs from the ride in Aristotle and the crusts and a few days after his bike in Parnitha. This loss of any contact with the Mitsotakis Government with reality is horrifying and cynical. Every day, the loss of all your contacts with the narrow society is revealed. The total lack of consciousness between the government's headquarters, the prestige that is measured by other measures and weights, the obscene rendering responsibility on the part of government ministers to the people who are ill and at risk, the targeting and confiscation of entire social and professional groups and cities, such as Thessaloniki or Dramas, for example, tell us a lot about how the government understands political responsibility, but also how to practice government work, mercy of God Mitsotakis! What has been missing from the kneeling health and economics of Thessaloniki and is experiencing this tragedy today? "The lack of character", "the Thessalonians are not good" said provocatively the day before yesterday, an unspeakable Minister of Government. In fact, these Thessalonians are also the 12 patients who are hospitalized at the "Genders" Hospital, which the previous day according to press reports had no current for one hour and were looking for a solution to power supply in the ICUs, while the generators could not function because there was unavailability from the administration of the "Genders" which the "Genders" administration supposedly asked the help of the co-operating "Saint Dimitrios" hospital, which also had not been able to maintain the generators? Is that the citizens of Thessaloniki with no character? No commitment to take responsibility for criminal proceedings by the government and no apologies! Here, too, the blue Members of the region and the self-government who have left the government to distribute sentences to the citizens without putting pressure on the government in good time. I heard something smiling when they got into the bunker of responsibilities and wanted to get out of it, when things started to get hard, and the Prime Minister to blame them. But even now they have said nothing about the supposed order fiasco in Thessaloniki. The large private clinics were left out, while the requisition ended without a single COVID -19 patient in the so-called clinical clinic, while at the same time public debts were enrolled with the clinical chief, while at the same time doctors of large private clinics were established in public hospitals to make choices for non-COVID -19 patients, in order that these clean incidents would be transported and hospitalized to private clinics with uninjured and net profits for the clinical authorities, while doctors in public hospitals are forced to make choices and intuitions of patients outside the ITH, since there was no intensive bed in a public hospital or a sample. Instead of accounting for all this, the government imposes a fish silence and imposes a regime of terror for workers in public hospitals. The ones he was applauding, he now pays them with SADs, authoritarianism and persecution. I dare not think of what would have happened - and I will reverse your question here - if the pandemic had erupted in your first memorials when those neoliberal policies had left you two and a half million of our fellow citizens uninsured when even the entry into the hospital had entered a ticket. And so that we do not forget the SYRIZA government did not only fight to leave the Greek people the debt nipple, which your governments put in it, managed to resurrect the seated of your SYRIZA Memorandum, increasing by 1 billion public health expenditure by increasing health expenditure from 4.5% of GDP in 2014 to 5.1%. In the midst of a pandemic, the Mitsotakis government reduces health expenditure for 2021, the budget says so. But even this government majority is trying to twist it by adding beans with beans. With an epidemic wave that is not bent after five weeks in Lockdown, with the pressure on the ESS for hospitality in CIVID-19 and ITH to continue unrelenting, with the first-line people being exhausted and declining by the pandemic the government brings a budget that provides for reduced health expenditure of EUR 572 million. And I wonder how a government can cope with the consequences of a health crisis not only when it reduces health expenditure, but when it is convinced by the lie that it increases them? I close, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that we still have to get out of front of the pandemic. SYRIZA will not stop talking about the need for effective and generous reinforcement of the ESS, simulations of all doctors and nurses who have always given and continue to fight against the pandemic and the other diseases. All the workers indiscriminately who entered this unequal battle must remain in the public National Health System. It's minimal recognition, but also a deposit for the next day. To finally get into the list of heavy and unhealthy professions all the doctors and nurses of the ESS and to see seriously how we will manage the time until there are tangible results from vaccination, which treatments are available, which medicines can be made available. The battle against the pandemic is not given by the protected environment of media guards with double books or even three times, as the "Recipients' Newspaper" brings to the public today and is not given without supplies, without people. People with people are this battle, and that should be the message of the budget for 2021, but unfortunately it is not, because this government is nothing but human. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u314	Mr Athanasios Ljupi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, I can't go over what Mrs. Auger said. Just two things. In an intensive treatment unit without power and without the generators working, it is not possible. It's not possible for people to live in an hour. So, since it didn't happen, it didn't happen. The other one, if one wants to understand whether a disease is chosen in intensive care units, who they're gonna put, can look at ages. The day before yesterday, I looked at the ages that are hospitalized in the AHEPA units. Twenty-three to ninety-seven. When you put the ninety-seven-seven-year-old in the unit, it means you don't make a choice. The year ending, Mr President, has unfortunately kept us completely unforeseen conditions. The government was invited, a few months after authority, to manage an unprecedented threat to public health, which at the same time seriously affected all forms of social and economic life. All the measures taken by the Qualified Opposition found them to be problematic. After the low health budgets in previous years, in 2020, the spending of the Ministry of Health increased by 20%, as an ancillary staff of seven thousand health workers, and by the end of the year more than a thousand permanent recruitment of doctors will have been completed. And since we are all talking about the ICUs, which is an integral part of the battle against pandemic, let us not forget that in Greece we had a few ICUs over what we needed. With only 557 ICUs we ranked half of the European average. Today we have some 1,300 beds. Of course, it would be a great disregard if we did not recognise the decisive role played by the health staff of the country. And I'm talking from my personal experience. Every day I see the enormous efforts that doctors and nurses at Volos Hospital, and other hospitals in the country, are taking place. These are the true protagonists in our battle and we must recognise them with new permanent jobs, as we have legislated, I believe, and wages and see the issue of heavy and unhealthy, Minister. Hospital units are assisted in practice. The state budget provides for an increase in expenditure by EUR 400 million. There is a special reserve of EUR 3 billion to deal with all the consequences of the pandemic, namely the emergency needs of possible health costs. In addition, however, the Government has already launched health support and through the Recovery Fund. To stem the negative effects of the pandemic on the economy, the government supported businesses and citizens with EUR 23.9 billion in 2020, while another EUR 7.5 billion is expected to be provided in 2021. The repayable advance gave a big breath to businesses and professionals. Overall, the entrepreneurship fund and the repayable advance went to the market of EUR 10.6 billion and is expected to be added one and a half billion more by the end of the year. As a result of this measure, thousands of jobs have been saved for workers and an explosive increase in unemployment has been prevented. New, fifth in a row, back from the next month, which includes an expanded number of enterprises and professionals, is expected. In the Magnesia Prefecture, workers have already received financial support which exceeds EUR 22 million. The repayable advance benefited 9,600 enterprises, each of which received an average of EUR 8,390, while more than 6 million was granted as a special purpose compensation for businesses. A further support measure is the almost EUR 68 million granted in the form of loans through TPIX and the Guarantee Fund. Let us not forget that Magnesia was also afflicted by Janus last September. Here too, the state mechanism has responded immediately and compensation of EUR 1.61 000 has already been paid to a thousand two hundred and seventy farmers. Already 20% has been paid for the businesses affected and 2.5 million euros for local government damage to infrastructure. Despite internationally unfavourable conditions, the government remained committed to its objective and commitment to the Greek people for reforms. It is noteworthy that progress has been made this year under these conditions. The digitisation of the public sector has played a central role in this. The whole public mechanism has been transformed within a few months and adapted to the potential of technology. At the heart of the government's economic policy is to reduce unemployment and to reduce growth prospects. Despite the pressure on budget figures, no new tax is foreseen for next year. On the contrary, with a firm commitment to business and workers relief measures, we will again see reductions in tax and insurance contributions. An important and environmental dimension of the budget that supports programmes for the promotion of electricity, energy upgrading of buildings, extension of the natural gas network and the creation of photovoltaic parks in western Macedonia and Megalopolis. Despite the international economic crisis, the government has gained market confidence and this will yield positive results once the health crisis is over. In 2021 we are expected to put the recession behind us and see all the reformist and developmental efforts that have been made in 2020 to deliver. Finally, I would like to comment on what was said yesterday and today by this Coronary Drug Step. There is only prevention and vaccines that cure us from viruses. The monoclonal antibodies of REGENERON have been shown to help to improve the outcome of mild and moderate coronary infections. Because we were accused of not ordering them, they were approved by the FDA, but not yet by the Coreper. They are produced in small quantities and are also used in Greece in a few patients in the framework of studies. I mean that the medication in hospitals from Komotini to Crete and Rhodes is the same on the basis of the EGE, infectious and international practice protocols. To conclude, Mr President, I should like to say something about the hopeful message from the research financed in April on coronary diseases. Researchers with young postgraduate and postdoctoral students produced a very reliable Greek rapid test in a few months, but also monoclonal antibodies against the virus, some of them as effective as the Americans. This is the way against Brain Drain, hope for the future, another way to develop, with organisation, specific plan, know-how and hard work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u316	Good. Because I have also listened to Mrs Auger, I have heard from you who have spoken about the inclusion of doctors and nurses in the heavy and unhealthy, although a doctor, I have read the report from the committee proposing who should join the heavy and unhealthy. I think that there is an industry missing, which is the clinical physico-therapists, who are doing an excellent job. They're the ones who pick up the patient, when it's intubated, get him out of bed and send him back to the active activity. They're six hundred people all Greek, they're not a huge number. They're the ones working in hospitals. Minister, you are one of three here, take it into account. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We proceed with Mr Georgios Mulkiotis and then Minister Karamanlis. Then there are five colleagues, Mr. Dermenzopoulou, Mr. Kalamatianos, Mr. Pascalides, Mr. Papaliou, Mr. Lambropoulos and then the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Skeylakakis. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, the Change Movement, with seven proposals and amendments which it has tabled so far, refers to this issue and we fully agree with the proposal that you have made in relation to the classification of heavy and unhealthy health professions. That is right, Mr President, and thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget for 2021 takes place in the shadow of the coronary pandemic, with our country facing new challenges following the 10-year economic crisis. The causes of failure to deal with the second wave of pandemic are many. The relevant authorities have done little too late. Now we're going from an order to an extension and an extension. As far as the world of work is concerned, the picture is degrading. Hundreds of thousands of jobs have been lost. Tens of thousands of workers are on a job suspension or with only income for the unemployment benefit. Most unemployed also lack this benefit. Others work with reduced earnings. Seasonal workers in tourism and foodstuffs are in a resounding state. In the local societies and economies the representatives of traders and professionals characterise the repayable advance as a mistake that enmitys the scenery in the face of everything that comes, predicting piles of padlocks. And I'm telling you with full knowledge of the state of my prefecture, Boeotia. Shoppers are unable to pay even the electricity bills. The ski centre of Arachova is closed and other destinations are ‘dead’. Entrepreneurs destroyed in Delise in the summer have still not been compensated. The factories are down, the farmers are at God’s mercy, without any aid and welfare, and there is no serious development plan. At this critical juncture the proposal I have made from the past for Boeotia is particularly important. Firstly, a new organisation for the development of Kopaidas for the development and modernisation of the two-two thousand acres of the copeace field, with the preparation of anti-military study and the construction of modern irrigation networks, is set up. Secondly, the creation of agri-foodstuffs innovation zones. Third, the creation of a market for vegetables and an auction for Central Greece and fourth, the creation of business centres for the innovation of agri-food businesses. Now, with regard to the budget, ELSTAT, ladies and gentlemen, has announced a recession of 11.7% for the third quarter. The government self-sufficiently states that the economy can withstand and claim that the present dramatic picture will change this year, in 2021, that the country will reach 4.8% of growth from 10.5% of the recession. In fact, the government recommends a budget to the predictions, without any dynamic progressive reforms and changes, which look like a bad joke. Because it does look like a bad joke, when it provides for a surplus budget to be made available to e-ECA by EUR 418 million in 2021, at the same time that, while it promises to increase its revenue, it reduces state funding. The ECA will in fact be a deficit for 2020, despite the large public funding, while in 2021 it will be even more in deficit. The provision of revenues from debt arrangements of 1,7 billion is impossible. It does not explain how the government will be able to issue all outstanding pensions by the end of 2021, about three hundred and fifty thousand, at a cost of over 1 billion, when for one and a half years it managed to increase them by 30%. He doesn't explain why he knows that it can't succeed. It does not explain because, ladies and gentlemen, it knows about the God of farmers, that there are pensioners without a pension from 2016. The Members of the New Democracy also annoyed the government's MPs. The protests are from all over Greece, and that is why we heard - and leaked - what happened to the Ministerial Council by the Prime Minister. The best proof of why it does not explain - as you have heard - is that it provides for an increase in pension expenditure by EUR 499 million, while only EUR 734 million is required for outstanding basic pensions. These are the issues of the budget, ladies and gentlemen. It's an unfair budget. It continues the unfair distribution of tax burdens initiated by the previous government. This unfair tax allocation is further increased in 2021 by the abolition of the solidarity levy only for income derived from private economic activity, with the exception of pensioners or public sector employees. Mr President, explain to us the famous Pissaridis report. In fact, what does it offer to the already universal labour insecurity and growth of unemployment? What does this report offer for the dramatic reduction of incomes and for the pooring of broad social strata? Who's he helping? The continuing disorganization of labour relations, the de facto abolition of eight-hours, the planned mismanagement of housing law, Law 1264 and the partial or total abolition of overtime payments will help workers? You have unfortunately made your political choice "half-time, half-wage, half-wage insurance, half-life" in dogma of your governance. Ladies and gentlemen, the policy needs courage to be good and real, otherwise it is in euphoria. It is therefore urgently necessary to change the question and the New Democracy is not prepared to do so. This government, which shows itself as a financial self-defence, is the same that continues to spread the millions in the media of its own choice. It is the same that for eight months it gave private workshops consciously to speculate with the price and quality of the COVID-19 tests. It is the same thing that it has no problem steering three quarters of liquidity, which the banks potentially have, to the large companies employing 12% of the employees, while those who employ 88% of the private workers only concern one quarter of the 5 billion. They are, ladies and gentlemen, the same that reduces social costs and gradually and systematically depreciates the public social security system, the public OAED, the public social and health care system to assign it to its private clients. Mr. Secretarys, you are not insecure, as some of you are accusing you. On the contrary, you have a plan. You are serving specific interests, but you are proved obsessed and trapped in your neoliberal communication glass, in which you are with these few you serve. We, the PASOK, are with the people, we are with the many, we are with the non-preferential, because that is our choice, that is our case. We know, ladies and gentlemen, that for the sun to return, it needs a lot of work, after the "ZAPAPIA" and the squares of the indignant, when PASOK was only trying to save the country from the financial derailment and the financial deadlocks of the period 2004-2009. For all this, we have one and only option, to vote against the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u318	The Minister has the floor, Mr Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u319	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a year that has been very difficult for the whole world is coming to an end. In front of us we have the hope of the vaccines and the objective of the government, the aim of all of us is double. Firstly, to end the pandemic with the least possible losses and, secondly, to prepare for the next day. It is important at this time that we are united. We in the government, you know, don't like saying we've done everything perfectly. Errors have also been made and omissions have been pointed out. But be careful, especially the SYRIZA colleagues, this. The citizens know who is involved in the national effort and who is not. They realize who even in a global health crisis are looking for micro-party benefits. So it is good not to surrender to the populism of 2015. Do not trap the country's political life in meaningless controversy. Put aside the sterile and irrational opposition. In this difficult year, then, that ends as government, we were called upon to manage an unprecedented pandemic and at the same time to implement our program. In the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, as you know, we have problems not solved within a day. Neither works nor transport, in freefall for many years, have been corrected from one moment to the next. The reality is, therefore, that we received urban transport under dissolution, large emblematic projects that were stuck, designed and matured to zero. Despite objective adversities, we are working hard and systematicly. In infrastructure and transport the effort peaks in 2021. The first objective is to implement institutional interventions that change the data. We want better projects, we want projects that are done on time, with transparency and full respect for Greek taxpayers' money. And we do that in two ways. We are reviewing Law 4412, a law brought by the previous government, and it has made it so rough that it has had to change it one or two, but - listen, ladies and gentlemen - three hundred eighty-five times! The new law incorporates proposals for speeding up, digitising and simplifying procedures. He is in consultation and will soon be voted on. It is a flagrant reform that will speed up the country's development process. At the same time, we are ready to establish a new tool, which we had already announced as Opposition, the so-called 'innovation proposals'. With the new bill that we will bring, we transfer know-how from the private sector to the public sector, we reduce the risk for the Greek public sector and join forces with the private sector. The second objective is for infrastructure projects to enter the front line for 2021. After seventeen months of fighting to unlock major projects, to mature new ones, we now finally have an integrated plan for projects that exceed EUR 13 billion, which divide into two categories. In one, we have the big plays we found finished, we found them drugged, and we managed to unlock them. The 4 Metro line of Athens, the largest infrastructure project, a budget of 1.5 billion euros, will change Attica. We're talking about a 15-stage project that's going to start at Wade and end up in Alssos Veku. After many years of recurring, this work is in the final phase and within 2021, until the first semester, precursor work begins. Thessaloniki Metro: After incredible controversy, after four and a half years of stagnation at Venizelos Station, we gave a solution. Of course, some have again appealed to the Council of State. But they will have the responsibility of delays. Our commitment remains that the metro will be ready in 2023. Patras - Tower. If SYRIZA hadn't broken it into eight pieces to thank a contractor - canalarch as proved after a long time, today this work would be a reality. What did we do? We have achieved the Commission's change of attitude, the possibility of financing the project beyond 2023, we have incorporated it into the Olympian Road Convention and we expect the final adoption by the 'DGCOMP' so that the procedures, which have been delayed over decades, will start in 2020-2021. BOAK: SYRIZA unfortunately only went ahead in words. They just had a competition of interest. What did we do? In seventeen months we have entrusted more than ten geotechnic studies, we have reached out to engraving, and in the next quarter we submit to the Ministry of the Environment the application for environmental impact assessment. 65: The northern part begins to take place. The section that joins the Trikala, Kalambaka and Meteora with the Egnatia Road will begin to be implemented. Also, in the southern part of Lamia - Xenia the project progresses satisfactorily, since 60% is almost ready. Aktio - Ambrosia: Another multi-faceted project finally enters a realignment, with completion time in 2020-2023 and we are finally surpassing the risk of losing or returning European subsidies. Next to these projects we have the new generation of projects, railways, works for the next 15 years, environmentally friendly projects. We are planning the largest programme that has been done in the country, with an emphasis on commercial transport, connectivity to ports and the completion of the trunk of the rail network with the PATHE axis, projects that will place emphasis on an area that is competitive for the Greek economy, the logistics industry, because Greece must finally become a infrastructure hub of south-eastern Europe. We are going to the anti-military armour projects, the works of the new generation, with which we will address the problems of climate change. We have already proceeded with a plan of EUR 1.2 billion, which includes anti-military projects financed by the European Investment Bank and anti-military projects to be carried out by motorway distributors. The new upgraded regional, so-called Flyover, its PPP design proceeded to record time. Last Monday the expression of interest was completed. Attiki Road Expansions: The extension of Kymi Avenue to Athens - Lamias will be auctioned in 2020-2021 and the extension of the western regional highway to Vouliagmeni will follow and the connection to the Greek. Extension of metro line 2 to the West Attica with two new stations in the Anthoupoli - Illion section. The competition will also be opened in 2021. The new road safety intervention programme, which we have signed with the EIB, speaks of interventions in seven thousand points. At this point I should add something else. We made the interoperability of tolls, i.e. drivers using a transponder. Now next target is the kilometre charge. And we start this plan from Olympia Street. Our third major goal is urban transport in Athens and Thessaloniki. I want to make it clear, because I do not want to hide behind my finger: the situation can be improved, but citizens have every right to protest about the problems that still exist. We recognize weaknesses. However, those who have no right to speak are the ones who brought transport into this mess, those who, when they left the government, left eight hundred fifty buses in Athens, those who left two hundred thirty buses in Thessaloniki and those who, for four and a half years, did not make one intake and did not buy a new bus. But citizens don't care yesterday. They're interested in the solution. The steps that have been taken so far are not small, but are not enough for the citizens. That is why, in 2021, we will continue with the same commitment to implementing our planning. We are also listening to criticism, because we have not moved any faster. The truth is that we would like that first of all to the government. But we are doing things that are unprecedented for Greece, with as much speed and transparency as possible. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Your tolerance, Mr President, for two minutes. In seventeen months, we have done what has not been done for a decade. What did we do? Today on the streets there are two hundred additional buses of the CCTBs in total sixty lines. This is how vehicles of the OSCE are released from the regional lines in the centre. Overall, we have on average a thousand hundred more routes a day. At the same time, we do something innovative, we proceed to the competition of three hundred modern buses. Already, leasing worked successfully in Thessaloniki, where today we have reached four hundred buses. At the same time, in the middle of a fixed track, we reduce the time intervals and bring up the trains we had found in a tragic state, one third of the trains were out of operation. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that we are entering a time when the choice for major infrastructure projects, for large public projects, if you like, should serve a single objective, especially now that we have the Recovery Fund at our disposal, the upgrading of the national economy, the strengthening of the competitive aspects of the Greek economy. We should not throw money any more that does not meet specific objectives, that is to say, funds for projects that have suffered many years in micro-party purposes, but we will invest in major infrastructure projects, such as railways, to finally strengthen the logistics industry, to strengthen sectors and aspects of the economy that will help our country emerge from these last problems of the economic crisis that we have throughout Europe. In the year that ends, there has been much going on both Europe and our country. Now is the time when we will leave the worst behind and Greece will return to the path of development with projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u320	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister one question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u321	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u322	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am opposed to all of what I have heard about critical projects, for the Patras tower, which the previous government had known as the SYRIZA government had made sure to deal with, as well as with the BOAK. Other colleagues will deal with them. I would like to refer to an issue that is topical and is about pandemic and is the situation in buses, in urban buses. I would therefore like to ask you, given that it has been shown that they operate as transponders, given that the pandemic finds suitable ground through the droplets, why did you hire buses from the CBELs that have inappropriate ventilation? And all scientists have been telling you that and you haven't answered these questions for two months.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u323	You asked the question. Mr President, I have given him the floor because Mr Skourletis has a parliamentary representative. I'm not making an exception. I'm clarifying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u324	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u325	Minister, would you like to answer for a moment, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u326	I tell the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman that we are doing something that you have not done for four and a half years. We bring new buses, we hire six hundred people to OSH and SAS, and we do what is a reality, a renewal of the fleet. Do you know what you've done, Mr. Skourlet? Leaving the government, you did a gonatogram for a competition of three hundred buses, which we did not cancel, as your Chief, Mr. Tsipras, has said very wrong, but the Proceedings Authority has annulled. Who told you that the buses of the Kappa Kappa Tau do not have appropriate ventilation? They're more modern buses than these...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u327	Scientists say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u328	What scientists, Mr. Skourlet? Aren't you tired of investing and plundering the pandemic? Oh, my God, it's populism!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u329	Good. There's no need for voices.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u330	You are returning to the irrationality of 2015 and disgusting what you are doing and what you are doing, I think they are exposing you irreparably.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u331	Good. There's a difference of opinion. The Minister answered. We shall proceed with Mr Christos Dermenzopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u332	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the debate and the vote of this year's budget are taking place at a dramatic juncture not only for our country, but also worldwide. The coronary pandemic counts losses not only in the economy, but primarily in human lives. To date, three thousand six hundred twenty - five fellow citizens have lost their lives, a million six hundred thousand worldwide. In a tragic account which is not just about numbers, but about lives and families, we must be serious and responsible in the way we are doomed, but also about how some are opposed. A year ago we voted for a budget which had incorporated a large part of our election commitments, an economic programme which was triumphantly approved by the majority of the electorate, and we did so. We proceeded to a number of tax reliefs for households and businesses, HISPIA by 22%, income tax on legal persons at 24%, suspended VAT on new buildings, but proceeded to reductions in insurance contributions, since the previous government of Tsipras - Kammenos - and we must remember all this - had exaggerated the middle and productive strata of Greek society. As the Minister of Finance has said, when this misinterpretation of the health crisis is closed, we will come back to the proper budgetary policy of permanent reductions in taxes and insurance contributions. We have kept and respected our commitments. The increase in revenue we still believe results from the recovery of the economy. We have also created a development framework, attracting new investments, but also implementing a number of outstanding, opportunities with new jobs. During the year, our country was borrowed with returns that we had never seen before. And that is now due to the confidence that the markets show in the work that this government is doing here, confidence and seriousness, which at last is a Greek Government, where despite the difficult conditions prevailing worldwide, it has a plan, a plan and will continue its reform work. Ladies and gentlemen, this year's budget, yes, is being done at a time when all economies worldwide and all health systems are being tested. How many people have, in fact, believed that our country could respond forcefully to this huge test that the COVID pandemic -19 has caused us to go so directly to so many measures to support the health and economic system? At the moment we have more than a thousand thirty beds, when we received just five hundred sixty-seven, seven thousand increments in the middle of a pandemic, a thousand four hundred permanent doctors, four thousand permanent nurses who are permanent and, as we have said, we will continue to strengthen the health system as much as is necessary. There was support for workers, businesses and municipalities in the unemployed. 24 billion was given this year, but also 7.5 billion with the new year. In Evros, from the elements of "ERGANI", the financial assistance of the workers, as reflected by the suspensions, the gift of Easter, the programme of the "SSUP", amounts to 13,270,000, the repayable advance of one to four at 29,916,000, special purpose allowances of one to four,832,000. Only these measures totalling some 48 million plus 38 TPIX and we will continue. Of course, this is all about dealing with the financial implications of COVID -19. Here, Minister, you will allow me to remind you that Evros is a very special case. There is a timeless economic haemorrhage due to the proximity of two countries with the economic features that have choked domestic entrepreneurship. That is why a special programme is required for the Prefecture of Evros. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise the question I asked a little differently this time: how many are those who believe that our country could respond to this test if it were the previous government? The answer to the question knows it, we all know it, and I am sure you know it in depth too. However, the objective cannot be to be in constant controversy. Maybe that's what some do, but it's not what people need right now. Society wants, requires the state to be next to it and not turn its back on it using ideological concussions and excuses on a number of key issues. Is the management of migration a national issue? Did we finally get to agree? Sure, yeah. The world was delighted to see the government dealing with this issue, doing it self-evident in its peak, in the work of migrants from Turkey. We proceeded to cooperate with the Army-Police, to extend and repair the fence, to provide logistic equipment and to recruit new border guards. Is there a need to strengthen the National Defence? We say that for sure, yes. The sums for defence are therefore multiplied, so that, among other things, the recruitment of permanent professional soldiers and short-scheduled soldiers can proceed. Of course, that's where you give your change. The 2011 budget provides for the appointment of a significant number of teachers. And when I mention that you're giving your change, how? By falsifying the truth, trying to poison, by downgrading not only the actions of the Ministry, but also of our teachers in the over-representation that they have been doing lately. You passed like something normal that for the first time the first phase of subsistence recruitment took place earlier than other years. And, of course, we need to mention the digital leap that has become that a few countries have succeeded, but very much anti-militaryly over the last few months in our country. The whole school community conducts tele-education and is already making a significant supply of the necessary equipment to all school units in the country. Of course there have been problems, as will be the future. But let us consider where we have been for so many years and, of course, let us respect the struggle that teachers are giving. Ladies and gentlemen, now cheap criticism is enough. We're done with the upcoming ideas. Society has moved forward and overcome all those expressing them. If we have proved something through this pandemic, we are listening to society, we are interfering, we are correcting failures and we are adding elements to omissions when they happen. And we differ, gentlemen, as we believe that it is not impossible to make self-criticism for all these manipulations, to take responsibility, but also to speak the language of truth, which is recognized by the entire Greek society, but also something that may well be unfamiliating to you, gentlemen of SYRIZA. And of course, so we will continue, as there is no other way and the way we have to go is quite a big one and we have to go along with society next to us. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of the budget to go along with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u333	Good, Mr. Dermenjopole, you were just on time. Mr Dionysius Kalamatianos, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget is a debate that does not only concern the State's revenue and expenditure for 2021, it is a debate on governance policies. In studying the draft budget, one can easily see that all the neoliberal obsessions that perpetuate your governance have been incorporated into it. It results from reading the text. No help for the ESS, repatriation to education, dangerous experiments on social security, failed monumental recipes at work, analgesia for small and medium-sized enterprises, for medium-sized incomes, for middle-class, for lack of vision for our farms, young people, our new ones. This budget is the result of your policy, a failed policy, which shows errors both in the health management of the crisis and in economic, a failed policy in the backing of Turkish infraction. The country is being undermined internationally, because of your policy, without compass, without a strategy. This is reflected in the recent major diplomatic defeat of the summit with the Prime Minister's personal stamp. You failed once more. You have not managed to impose serious sanctions against Turkey on the continuing violations of international law. You raised the bar high and passed a lot under him and the demolition of the Turkish government continues. The merciless Prime Minister and government as a whole is seriously harming the Greek people. You demanded individual responsibility. But you have forgotten your responsibility. You have forgotten and you are trying to hide your collective and enormous political responsibility. You have confessed to reassuring yourself that you have fallen out on your designs. From a hundred and ninety - two victims at the end of June we arrived at a hundred a day and three and a half thousand in total. We do not need to say anything more as evidence of the dramatic situation we are experiencing. At the economic level, you have not listened to our complaints, but also to the complaints made by representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises. We told you: 'Use part of the resources available'. We have told you that we are actually strengthening labour and small and medium-sized enterprises in order to avoid a massive recession. You did not do it and now the country records continuously negative performance. You managed to have the second worst recession in the European Union, 11.7% in the third quarter of 2020 and, ultimately, more than 10% for the whole year. You have even exceeded the worst scenarios you and the Bank of Greece have set. Is it true, Minister, that you are pleased that the country is at the bottom of the economic performance of the countries of the European Union? In this economic environment, which has the stamp of your so-called state-of-the-art state, you are preparing to give the "thank you" to the popular social majority. And you do that, not with a horizon in 2021, but for the next fifty years. Your aim is to create a violent redistribution of citizens' incomes. You are equal to working rights, pensions, small and medium-sized enterprises, and obviously benefit from the great interests and economic elites you serve. Your budget is based on the conclusions of the Pissaridis report. It does not take into account the recent lessons of the pandemic, the importance of state intervention and social protection at all. The result of this report is the new Bankruptcy Code, as well as the law on speeding up its own Katselis law, two legislations that will surely lead to massive bankruptcy, the divestment of populaces and a rapid increase in homeless people. But you do something else, ladies and gentlemen of the government. You're working with the police to disorientate the civilians. You're trying to criminalize social struggles and generalize repression. You are applying a punishing, vengeful and no penitentiary policy. In the budget of the Ministry of Civil Protection, you are reducing the benefits to police officers by 25 million and you are planning nothing for their education. At the same time, you find funds to increase the wages of posted officials at the offices of the Minister, the Secretary-General and the Secretary-General. These are your options. I would also like to refer to my county, Elias, which is a typical example of the disaster your policy brings. We have already heard the Minister for Infrastructure. He stopped building the Patras - Tower motorway and canceled the contractors performing the project, a work of vital importance for the safety of the travellers and the development of my place. Now, does the Minister hope at some point in the future that the European Commission will approve its plans, where are they? The direct assignment of the project to the concession of the Olympia Road, from which you yourself had decided in 2013. These are his plans. Also, the railroad will be long delayed coming to Elias. There are other plans by the Minister for the subordination of the railroad in Patras and its passage to the Tower. Mrs. Keramos suspended the operation of the Department of Physical Education and Sport Sciences at the place that gave birth to the Olympic Games. Farmers and farmers are desperate, as they cannot make their production available, they are already indebted and will not be able to grow next year. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, how much the media monopoly on the Peca list allows citizens to be given real information. Our country is in a deep crisis, not only health, economic and social, but a crisis of the rule of law and democracy. This, unfortunately, is increasingly deceiving and, unfortunately, is deceiving our political system. The budget you are bringing to the vote is a "fuss" that will shut down. It is a budget that is resilient, which hopes for a rapid increase in private investment and tax revenue. Such predictions are made in a country that is rapidly leading it to a new economic ruin. You said the same thing in 2012-2014 and you abstained too much from your goals, you never caught them. We invite you, even now, at the last minute, to listen to us and to change strategy and targeting. We believe that another policy is feasible and necessary. We believe in another practice that will focus on people and their needs. We want fair, sustainable, green growth, which will support medium- and small entrepreneurship, strengthening the income and rights of workers, more and better paid jobs, strengthening the social state, reorganising public administration to be more effective, investing in new technologies and innovation. And we can do it if you don't put us in memorials and in their 'chains' again, as you have done in the past. Our proposals, our programme give us hope, optimism, a prospect of a democratic progressive and social alliance, which will again become majority. We are voting against the budget and we invite you to listen at last to the workers, small and medium-sized enterprises, farmers, the unemployed, our young people and our young people, who are desperate. Listen to society and get out of your communication isolation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u335	The debate will now be taken by Mr Ioannis Paschalides, the colleague of the New Democracy. There are two others, Mr. Papaliou from SYRIZA and Mr. Lambropoulos from New Democracy, and then the Deputy Minister will go up in Step. Mr. Passalides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget this year is currently fully adapted to the financial situations of the new reality created by the COVID pandemic -19. Indeed, as the Minister for Finance has also stressed, Mr Stakoura, who is due to many congratulations, both to him and to the entire financial staff for the endless struggle they have been giving for many months, this is a budget that has been realistic, developmental, flexible and fair. With the most important aim of achieving this great test, with as few social and economic implications as possible, this budget includes a number of measures which will mark the recovery next year. In particular, the recovery for 2021 will be based on measures to reduce the tax and insurance burden and to encourage the creation of new jobs by reducing the insurance contributions of employers and employees in the private sector by three units, as well as the abolition of the solidarity contribution for private sector employees, incomes, professionals and farmers. In addition, a new tax scale will be applied for freelance professionals, leading to a reduction of at least EUR 1,300 for the vast majority of self-employed, and an extension of the payment deadline for each tax and insurance debt for those affected by the coronary until the end of April, and the payment to two years is a clear example of the social nature of this budget. The extension of the application of a reduced rate of VAT to tourism, focusing, transport, spectacle by the end of April, at a total cost of EUR 150 million, will certainly be beneficial. It is noted that only the total amount of measures to address the financial impact of the pandemic is estimated to reach a total of EUR 31.4 billion, of which EUR 23.9 billion is for 2020 and the remaining EUR 7.5 billion in 2021. They are extensive measures, but at the same time prudent, which will facilitate recovery for next year. In addition, the 2021 budget is kept for security reasons the special reserve set up in 2020 for COVID -19 to be able to meet needs that can be created by both health and economic aspects of the pandemic in the first few months of 2021. As mentioned above, this year's budget is directly influenced by the macroeconomic developments of the year we are going through, which are not only healthal, but are about addressing additional challenges faced by Hellenism and our country, resulting from geopolitical tensions, from flows of immigrants and from natural disasters such as 'Janus', but also from the earthquake in Samos. The truth is that this year the government took brave measures, not only to normalise the effects of the health crisis by strengthening the affected natural and legal persons, but also to support health with additional costs of equipment and infrastructure and recruitment in the National Health System, but at the same time the Armed Forces were also strengthened by increasing costs, natural variations in armaments systems. Let us not forget, however, the most important element that should characterise a budget and that is its developmental character. And indeed, under such unfavourable circumstances, this budget includes a number of compelling budgetary measures and measures to strengthen the liquidity of the economy. In order to make optimum use of the Development Fund's resources a comprehensive and coherent national strategic development plan focuses on supporting entrepreneurship, attracting private investment, promoting innovation, green development, digital transformation involving the public and private sectors, as well as regional support. At this point I would like to remind you that last month, in the middle of a pandemic, and while the shadow of the uncertainty about the evolution of the battle with the coronary is eroding over Europe, the hardest evaluation house "MODY'S", gave a vote of confidence to the Greek economy by upgrading Greece's wealth by one tier. Of course we don't dream. We're realists. We are well aware that the next few months are particularly critical. Already expected 2021 real GDP growth from 7.5% has been reduced by 4.8%, and the forecast for the recession has been adjusted upwards to 10.5% this year. However, I firmly believe that as long as Mr Mitsotakis holds the steering wheel of our country, this skeptical will also be overcome. Greece trusts him, Europe trusts him. The whole planet has bowed to the effectiveness of the Mitsotakis Government, which has moved with clear stepping, based on reliable knowledge of scientists. A little more patience and faith and the relaunching of our economy, at a rapid pace now, are very close. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u337	Let me inform you, so that colleagues and people don't wait unjustly, we'll go by 00:00 tonight. We made a clipboard calculation and we will stop before the speaker with a number of 145 that Mr. In other words, the last speaker for today is Mr Charalambos Mamoulakis. Tomorrow we start at 9: 30 and on Tuesday we start at 9: 00. I would also like to thank Mr Avdela, who agreed to go up to Helmet for the second time from 10: 30 to 12 at night to move on. Mr Georgios Papaliou, Member of the SYRIZA, will now have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u338	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the environment in which the 2021 budget is being discussed is determined by specific parameters, other objective, pandemic outcomes and other results of policies pursued by the Government of the New Democracy. Mostly of them. The specific parameters are: The emergence of the COVID pandemic -19, the consequent health crisis and the further deterioration of the pandemic in its second phase, the government's manifested inaction and the implementation of irresponsible, irresponsible, ideological, in short, I would say ruthless political management. These include the provision of limited resources to deal with the pandemic which rank the country second by the end of the European Union. The third parameter is the exacerbation of the economic crisis, with the return to negative growth rates already in the last quarter of 2019 and the first quarter of 2020, i.e. before the emergence of the pandemic. The recession was 11.7% in the second quarter of 2020 - our first country in Europe - and 10.5% in the whole of 2020. The planned budget growth is 4.8% of GDP for 2021, while the OECD predicts a growth of 0.9%. Of course, and 4.8% is far from the V-type development announced by the Prime Minister. However, this development provided for in the budget is based on long assumptions, the exploitation of resources from the Recovery Fund and the recovery of the labour market, despite the fact that unemployment is also anticipated. Other parameters are the reduction of economic activity, which results in the reduction of the incomes of large social groups, the promotion of class monopolies and the plan, I would say total restructuring of the economy, the large and strong in all areas of the public sphere, without any aid due to a pandemic for 2021 for employees in tourism, seasonal workers, free traders, scientists, long-term unemployed, culture, farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises, employees. These class unilateral policies consist of speeding up the adoption of counter-reform measures in the areas of health, education and the social state, at the expense of the large social majority and in favour of great and strong interests. These policies seek to further promote elasticity, deregulation of labour relations, essentially to abolish labour law, to distribute funds to representatives of large and strong private interests from the surplus created by the SYRIZA Government, to 'cushion', to suspend the Stability Pact and to expect resources from the Recovery Fund, in addition, to divest public enterprises, even natural monopolies, to assign important functions of the State to the private sector and to specific private interests, to the operation of the financial system in such a way as to self-sufficiently accumulate large profits and to favour the financing of large and strong business groups at the expense of small and medium-sized enterprises, self-employed, free professionals, scientists, farmers who do not have access to the banking system. Another aspect is the restructuring of ownership by abolishing the protection of the first residence and the introduction of the new bankruptcy code aimed at proprietaryising the assets of the lower and middle social classes by banks and funds. The budget leads to constant austerity policies, to the maintenance of unemployment at high rates. It should be noted here that the maintenance of unemployment at high rates strengthens the subordination of wage earners to capital. Finally, it leads to the work of justice for the service of large business groups and, of course, to other policies throughout the public sphere. These policies, including the government's failed management of the health crisis, are also reflected in the budget in 2021, despite the efforts of the government and the systemic media, or rather misleading, to enlighten the image by concealing and distorting events and aspects of policy being pursued always for the benefit of the government. In fact, these prejudge further deterioration of the situation, further accumulation of debts by households and businesses, and the exacerbation of social and regional disparities since the beginning in 2021 is more adverse. Therefore, what is needed is radical change of course, by changing the productive model, a change aimed at socially just productive reconstruction, development based on the comparative advantages of the country and the individual regions, strengthening stable employment, fair distribution of wealth and ecological protection, changing the productive model that promotes central and regional planning through the hierarchy of needs and objectives and economic instruments available and based on a new social contract of work, small and medium-sized productive entrepreneurship, culture and the new generation. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has been the blow, the pretext for strengthening and completing the promotion of New Democracy's neoliberal policies, the draft for the full restructuring of the economy in favour of capital in all areas of the public sphere, which, I repeat, are also reflected in the budget in 2021. In this context, the 2021 budget is not a budget for the COVID -19, but a budget for the economic pandemic, regression and further poverty of the middle and lower strata of Greek society, as well as the broadening of social and regional disparities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u339	Thank you. Mr Ioannis Lambropoulos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the budget debate is under unprecedented circumstances this year. Humanity, governments, citizens fight with pandemic for health and life, economies and health systems, even wealthy countries, across the globe go beyond their limits and are engulfed. Humanity, together with our country, is going through the greatest crisis after World War II. Who could imagine that health systems such as Switzerland, Italy, France, the United States of America and many others would collapse? Greece, apart from health care, has to manage the economic crisis that has arisen. And as if not all of this were enough, for several months now, it has been facing Turkey's daily threats, as well as the pressure of migration flows on its borders. Never before had a government ever been called upon to manage such a multi-level crisis. For this reason, gentlemen, you should be more restrained and more careful in your reasons, when even before you ruled and did not build intensive treatment units, you did not hire doctors and nurses, you did not equip our Armed Forces and left them without spare parts. The Greek people have knowledge and memory. It is no coincidence that in all polls the difference between the two major parties has doubled against you from the election. You have no political reason, no arguments and no positions. That's why you're screaming and the more people don't listen to you, the more you shout. Despite our limited powers, because of your own omissions, we have faced pandemic more effectively and better than most of the advanced countries, and we continue to fight daily with the second wave that is most severely affecting all the nations of the world. It is a pity to place the problem as hard and irresponsible as there is only here, overlooking what is happening today in Italy, France, Germany, Switzerland, the United States of America, which reached the three hundred thousand dead, Great Britain. It has given the Ministry of Finance, with great wisdom, what our economic potential - up to now more than EUR 25 billion - has allowed us to support the citizens, the weak, the professionals, the unemployed, our farmers and businesses, when you irresponsibly plundered and irresponsibly asked to give everything from the outset. At the same time, we are moving forward with reforms in the economy, we are not imposing new ones, but we are reducing taxes and insurance contributions, we are supporting production and gaining the confidence of investors and markets, we are modernising public administration and the state mechanism, and we are creating the conditions for attracting investors. It is no coincidence that our country is now borrowing at zero or even negative rates. In this 'victim' of the global health and economic crisis, the strategy for Greece's accession to the European Union by the late Constantine Karamanlis is the one that kept us and keeps us standing. And in the coming years it will give us over EUR 70 billion for the recovery of our economy, the execution of small and large projects throughout Greece, which of course should include the completion of this important axis, the western axis from Kalamata to Patras. In these difficult months the government determinedly, wisely and diplomaticly faced the challenges of imperialist Turkey. Our Armed Forces with professionalism and faith in our history have stood up to guards of our borders and have protected our national laws. Our country's agreements with Italy and Egypt on maritime zones and the upgrading of our relations with Israel, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and other allied countries show Greece as a strong factor of peace and security in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean and the Balkans. Greece regained its prestige. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Mitsotakis Government is increasing its military spending by 2 billion euros and implementing a new support programme for the Armed Forces and upgrading their armed systems, sending out the message of a strong army and a strong deterrent. Ladies and gentlemen, the days we live are difficult and the problems of great and unpredictable. In the uncertainty that prevails around the world, hope is science and vaccines. Until normality comes again, our economy must stand, businessmen, professionals, workers to keep their jobs. We are entering a very difficult period for health, the economy and our national issues. In this second wave of pandemic that scans, freezes and closes everything, all of us, parties and citizens must remain united.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u341	Come on, Mr. Lambropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u342	I shall conclude, Mr President. The decay opposition doesn't lead anywhere. Value and profit for our people are the positive opposition with proposals, with ideas that contribute to better policies. Only in this way will we address the consequences of the pandemic, but also the challenges on our national issues. Not to be divided by the little ones, to be united by the big ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u343	As I had said before, the Deputy Minister, Mr. Skylakakis, will now go to Stepma, with your permission, please. Under the Rules of Procedure it has 15 minutes as Deputy Minister of the Ministry responsible. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget this year is a difficult debate. It is being watched by our fellow citizens while in the country there is still the fear of pandemic with tens of thousands of our people getting sick and thousands being lost. Many have been locked in their homes for months because they belong to vulnerable groups. Many people find themselves in financial difficulty, because they cannot work and we are all with limitations of our freedom and concern about the future. So the least we owe them, the least we owe our fellow citizens, is to speak frankly and to tell the truth. The management of the public finances that affect the income of each Greek and each Greek is a matter that requires both thought and responsibility. We are living the biggest global crisis since World War II that hit the country after three memorials and after a decade of almost deinvestment and migration of our young children to the outside. We have a very large public debt, which has a good time structure, but it requires, not to go back to the difficult years of the last decade, to have credibility in relations with the European institutions and to maintain the confidence of the markets from which we lend billions of euros each year and we will continue to lend in the future. At the same time, there are huge needs of the economy and society, which absolutely must also be met with a reduction in public revenue, which is largely inevitable due to the limitation of movements and the banning of a large number of economic activities due to the pandemic. With the special responsibility for budgetary policy within the budget staff, I must confess to this House that responsibility is very heavy, too heavy at this time. We have to walk on a stretched rope. On the one hand, we must help those in need, effectively support the National Health System, keep business and jobs alive and, on the other, not lead public finances to derailment and think about society itself tomorrow, in the future, when we are summoned to pay back what we are lending today. This self-evident phrase that today's borrowings have to be paid out by tomorrow's tax revenue has strangely caused a great turbulence. I've heard a lot of and read in the newspaper of the Police Corps party one of the original guides, we'd say, of SYRIZA, who wrote that it's extreme neoliberal policy, misanthropic and antisocial, that extraordinary expenses should be regarded as loan. So, ladies and gentlemen of Officers, is the cost today not a deficit? Isn't the deficit creating a debt? The debt tomorrow won't we pay for it? What are we gonna pay for it with? With a mama from heaven? In the rivers instead of water, will it start flowing honey and milk? Are we going to plant a leafy tree that will grow like Jack's beans, that is, to the sky? Is it a miserable person to tell your fellow citizens the truth and a philanthropist to tell the world stories? I did, to tell you the truth, a serious attempt to quantify SYRIZA's proposals. In April, Mr Tsipras came and proposed 14 billion financial measures for the first phase and additional suspensions that were at least 4 billion more. Then SYRIZA came and for June - September told us to spend another 13.4 billion to be precise, and 3.5 billion inhibitions. Then it came back in November and proposed another 9 billion without quantifying everything, because in November it did not fully quantified. The sum is more than EUR 40 billion, when we have the highest share of GDP in Europe without putting more EUR 12 billion on guarantees and the additional cash cost of liquidity programmes. If we had followed this policy, what would happen to public finances? Cash assets other than the amount of ESM, they would not exist for a sample, the markets would swing our handkerchief, the spread would go to heaven, and the European Central Bank instead of giving us room by 2022 - as announced a few days ago - would have settled in the General Accounting Office where the three European institutions would have camped and taken the keys to the fund again, as they did in 2015. To understand how unrealistic they are, the average financial response to the European Union for the whole of 2020, with elements of the European Commission in October, was at 4% of GDP and the maximum, then, together with the tax suspensions, was 6.6%, and you proposed that we spend over 20% by September, four to five times, that is, above the average. The reality of course is that if you were a government and went out with such a project - in life as we know it, not in the fantasy of the opposition - the European Central Bank, before you did well - to spend this money, would stop or minimise the markets in Greek bonds, and you, in trying to avoid the upcoming memorandum, would support the second and third phases of the crisis, causing an unprecedented, permanent economic and social damage, even greater than the one caused in 2015 by your policies. Conclusion: The structural problem of the opposition remains, unfortunately, irreparable populism, extra-real promises, such as the famous Thessaloniki program, to make fun of the world voting for us, and then numerous damages, to try to convince him that a fraud was a delusion, and then completely to the "Hotel California" of the memorandums. Unfortunately for the country, the opposition today has another feature, which for me is a bigger and more difficult problem than populism. Because populism, when you're in the government, it's hard to keep going because the reality comes in. But the other cause, the weakness for ideological obsession or even collective mistreats to understand how a modern economy works, you don't get over it. For years as a government, you refused to confuse that the country has the biggest investment gap in Europe. You spoke with controversy, almost hatred, about the so-called "markets" and then repudiated why interest rates were at 4%, despite the fact that there was a 37 billion-dollar pillow. You still don't understand why our government just came in, they dropped the interest rates from 4% to 1% before the pandemic crisis came before the quantum relaxation program. You went out to talk about the Pissaridis report and all you had to say is that you will do 'anti-Pissaridis'. We will do, it says, the return from what the Pissaridis report says and in fact all you suggest is exactly what it rejected eighteen months ago, and in a deafening manner, the Greek people, together with an enemy for what the government proposes. Even in reafforestation you say no. I read the other day in "AGE" that it is a lot of acres and we need to refresh less than Mr. Hatzidakis says. I think I am one of the few to read "SYNEI" with such consistency.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u345	That's good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u346	I will finish my references to the opposition with the attacks and charges, which I must say to you that they were impeccable and inaccurate, which I have heard about sub-financing, is supposed to be the social sector. Since the figures are not lying, I will present the budget figures in relation to the last budget implemented by SYRIZA in 2018. Expenditure by Ministry: Health, in 2018, 3.8 billion, while in 2021, without COVID, 4.1 billion. Education, 5.4 billion in 2018 compared with 5.6 billion in 2021. Social expenditure, pensions, 28.7 billion in 2018, 29.2 billion in 2021. Social welfare, OPEKA spending, in 2018 was 1.3 billion, in 2019 they entered the budget 3.2 billion, in 2021 we have 4.2 billion social expenditure. Unemployment and work, OAED expenditure, 2.4 billion in 2018, 2.6 billion in 2021. You say a lot about social policy, but in the end our budget has more social expenditure in all areas. I'm going to take a break here for health expenses. We recognise and understand the difficulties that are global. I was just watching a news from Stockholm, where Sweden's head of health professionals said that the situation in the Swedish system is tragic, that it is not enough for workers, and that 99% of the coverage of the IMIs in Stockholm, Sweden, in one of the most powerful health systems on the planet is 99%. We in the COVID reserve - 19, you know, we have set up 3 billion and everything that the health system needs, as we have done - and the relevant ministers know very well - during 2021, we are committed - and the Minister of Finance said so, Mr Stagioras, I repeat - that everything that the COVID system needs -19 will be there, from the COVID reserve -19. We have done the same today, the EUR 786 million, may be a little more at the end of the 2020 budget to meet the needs of the health system. At the same time, from the beginning of next year, at our risk, we will start doing projects, which we believe will be included in the Recovery Fund by the middle of the year, when we have completed the Fund's procedures. I am now leaving the opposition, which I had to answer, to come, for the few minutes I have left, to the prospects opened in the country for the future, which is what is really of interest to the Greek people. What is the fundamental problem of the economy today? If I sum up all the reports by the international organisations, all the views of the serious scientists, the answer is one word: efficiency, that is, our ability to organise a system, so that we can bring with the same resources greater effect. To say it simply and daily, our Greeks' money and effort to catch a place. The Greek state and the Greek economy suffer from a proverbial lack of efficiency. In our private economy, our main problem is the inability of a large number of our businesses to be globally competitive, to invest in machinery and technology, to invest in improving their employees' skills and to give incentives, that is, better wages, to bring about better results. Also, our businessmen are hard to cooperate with each other. Our businesses in all sizes are the smaller ones in Europe, all, all, small, medium-sized, large, are much smaller than Europe's average. So, the great ability and creativity of our people don't get any place, because we don't work together. It was said by the Portuguese folklore that years ago: "We were always patriots, but we didn't change the balls." In the state, indifference about the result, the delay in the adoption of technology, our inability to measure properly is also similar. When it became the tragedy of Mandra, I discovered - and I wrote it then - that the Civil Protection was communicating with fax in times of crisis, in 2017, by fax! In the care system AMCA was given to seasonal foreign workers - and quite rightly as long as they work in the country - but no one thought to inactivate it when they leave the country, when they stop working here. Result? We pay unbelievably money to people who live and work abroad and cross the border every once in a while to get medicine and care, at the expense of the Greek taxpayer, because once before three, four or five years passed a season in Greece. In education, PISA, the well-known organization, the OECD, is coming out with the international skill-sharing competition, and Greece is from the lower countries, it is also from Turkey and the results of 2018 are worse than in 2015. For years, these results have been indifferent. Why? What did these results count? Not expenditure, but the result of expenditure. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] And go to health. We spend billions on medicines, and there is still no common supply system or a common storage system, so that we know how much medicine we have in the ESS. I'm telling you, General Accounting Officer. We don't know how many and what drugs we have in our hospitals. There is no common system for knowing it. The key, therefore, to change the country - and I shall end, Mr President, thank you for your tolerance - and to get out of the trap of successive crises and underdevelopment is not only to put money into the economy and state structures. Money was secured without a precedent. They are the 32 billion of the Recovery Fund won by the Prime Minister and the government from Europe. The key, in order for the country to succeed in clearing and living hope again, is to make use of this money efficiently, with organisation, introducing modern technologies and mobilising multiple private resources for every euro public money, creating hundreds of thousands of well-paid jobs new, attracting to our home country colossal worlds, to bring about activities, investments and money. Efficiency, the word disliked by populists around the world, is what will change our future. This is the fundamental change proposed by this government for Greece. Our homeland, we Greeks have enormous potential, natural environment, geographical location, history, individual abilities, education, infrastructure, correct alliances. What we need to make them reality are not nice words. It is to become an economy and a society that is more effective. That's our bet, that's the bet of this government. I understand that it is very difficult to talk about this in the dark days that we have lost people, who experience limitations, who are going through hard times, and who are fighting an insidious enemy. But the war will be over. The next day will come and Greece will find its way again. This is bound and guaranteed by the Government of Mr Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u347	Thank you. Mr. Skourletis has asked for the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Dogmaker, I'm glad you read "AGE". I recommend that you also make electronic subscriptions. It's cheaper. From there, however, you know, there is a saying "three of oil, three vinegar, three and the oil". What you mentioned here in relation to SYRIZA's proposals shows that you really don't understand anything. Because the proposals in the 'We stay upright I' programme and 'We stay upright II' programme at the specific moments that have taken place were precisely because you did not do that. They're not prosthetics. The 14 billion to which you referred are not prosthetics. We proposed the second time the specific figures, precisely because you had not done what you had to do in the right time, so that, when they were not in time, we could get worse in the case of the recession. Of course, I understand why you do not share that logic. Because it is obvious that you have chosen to treat pandemic as an opportunity to restructure the market for scaveling, so that people can get out and stay strong and few. This is reflected everywhere, in all your reports, in your book references, in what is contained in the Pissaridis project. Of course, you're going to tell me: is there no debt issue? There's a debt issue. And here you have to place yourself. Will you support the Italian Government's proposal to delete the pandemic's debt? It's something very specific. Will you join with the most extreme forces today in Europe, who want to return to neoliberal orthodomy, or will we all look, if we want to have a sustainable, fair, stable exit from this unprecedented crisis, change strategies in the field of Europe? You can't avoid that. So don't be urinaries of the most extreme neoliberals. In any case, you spoke about the fall in interest rates. You also admitted that this was largely due to the programme of quantitative relaxation. But don't forget the fact that you were able to and borrowed cheaply and there was a divergence in interest rates due to the political restructuring of the debt made by the SYRIZA government. Read the latest reports of the International Monetary Fund. They also recognise that in the medium term Greek debt is sustainable. You don't do it, I guess. You know who got us out of the memoirs. You put us in.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u349	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u350	You'll talk next, Minister. Mr Mylonakis has also asked for the floor from the Greek Solution. Here, Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u351	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, no one disputes that you are one of the leading economists, of course, of a theory of hard neoliberal policy in the economy, as you often say things by their name. You said a few days ago that every time we give a bonus, it turns into taxes to the Greek people. Previously, we heard from the Minister that the debt will increase, the deficits will grow. At the moment, the country is being driven into a financial derailment. Can you tell us how far this financial derailment will arrive? Be careful, the European Union will at some point cease to be flexible and will ask for the bill, that is to say, a budgetary adjustment to our country. Are you ready for that day? And the last question is this. We are fed up, Minister, to hear that we will win the bets. Our homeland in 2010 was in much better condition than it is today. Are we gonna win this bet? Are you sure? We need an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u352	Thank you. [[At this point the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Theodoros Skeylakakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u353	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I will reply first to Mr Skourletis and then to Mr Mylonakis. First of all, I will respond to what Mr Skourletis said, that the money is not summed up. Strangely enough, however, in the first phase, we were only told of a measure of 8.5 billion by May. And then they came and said that June - September will be 13.4 billion plus the suspensions. And then they came back in November and said other about the third wave. So, the one wave and the second wave and the third wave would you do everything with the November measures or the May measures? Apparently, they're summed up. And yet, you never told us that they don't add up. You've never done real quantification. You've never been open and honest. Now on the issue of interest rates, he was kind enough for the Minister of Finance to operate a few plans that he himself was ready to testify, but I think it is a better time. Here are the publications of Greek bonds. Recent publications have started. March 2019, 3.90%. Wasn't there the pillow, Mr. Skourlet in March 2019? It was a whole pillow, dick! Why 3.90%? October 2019 1.50%, June 1.56%, September 1.19%. As you can see, our publications were before and during the pandemic under half of the previous editions. And I'll testify to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u354	The international interest rates?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u355	International interest rates had no corresponding change of 200-300 basis points. Have a picture of how to move. Finally, what you say about the debt, I am afraid, once again, you are 'Burofakis'. In relation to Mr Mylonakis and financial derailment. No, there will be no budget derailment, because Europe will be milder the next day, and our policy is sound and wise, so that we can go to a much faster rate of growth, which will prevent budget derailment. But wisdom and soundness are necessary and must be maintained for as long as this crisis holds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u356	Thank you. We continue with my colleague, SYRIZA, Panagiotis Skourikos for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u357	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the 2021 budget and we must vote for it or vote against it. We need to see what has happened and find out what it proposes for the future. After a year and a half from New Democracy, we can say that we are on a competent point, it is a sufficient time to measure the facts of the government. The numbers, the studies, life itself, the everyday life, what do they tell us? Did the government succeed? Let us see some points: First, in the great challenge of managing the pandemic, the dead from November, in other words within a month, are over three thousand. It is the government that from the elections in July 2019 to March 2020, which showed up the pandemic, did not open a single MF bed. With the budget that this government has put forward, it is clear that its intention, even today, does not strengthen public health structures. Secondly, the management of the economy: we are the last in the European Union's recession. of the third quarter 11.7%. Thirdly, according to EUROSTAT as regards the income of citizens in the European Union, Greece has had the second largest reduction in income in the low wages and the third largest reduction in all workers within the European Union. Fourthly, as far as the debts of the citizens are concerned, 2,5 billion are the new debts, taxes, insurance funds, etc., plus 1.5 billion of those which have been frozen. Fifth, zero support everywhere is recorded in the budget. National Health System zero, sciences zero, culture zero, tourism zero. Along with these, the fall in business turnover, the policy of not supporting incomes, liquidity, etc. reveals to us a state that has done the least, which could, spending on its citizens, showing the Government of New Democracy as the government with the least interest in its citizens. However, expenditure on political leadership increased by 80%. From 1.4 million to 2.5 million. Approximately four thousand people retired at the Maximos Mansion, with reduced qualifications. He arrives in the high school vacancy, when on SYRIZA 90% had to have a certificate for a higher education institution. Even the ones you hired, you hired them with increased wages. The government has appointed, the government has increased the remuneration. Can we talk about culture? I see the Minister who came and spoke yesterday about improving infrastructure and services. I imagine in "services" this article of the bill that we voted on last week, according to which an object, some objects, our archaeological wealth, the cultural wealth of this place to move abroad for fifty years, will be able to borrow for fifty years. She was magnanimous, because she started out for a hundred years, and she went down to fifty. He spoke of support for contemporary artistic creation. This is for us the people of the profession, cold joke. Unless it means the hostages, because we did support them. It calms down the works that SYRIZA handed over and I talk about the Hellenic Museum of Contemporary Art, AKROPOL etc.. I know that I will receive answers where the government will again admire itself and congratulate itself. We're used to it. He also talked about support in the middle of a pandemic. That's a disgrace. The government's worst performance here is detected. He faced the space with a total ignorance of his peculiarities, with the incredible depreciation of human resources and the absence of any interest. We are in vain trying to raise awareness of the government. Does anyone think that we are feeling well when we are obliged to reveal that in Athens and Thessaloniki there are now aggregations for the people of culture? We're talking about our peers, our colleagues. Do you think we like to tell them that they're fed on a pile? We ask that the government take seriously decent people, sensitive creators and great professionals. We're asking him to stop pretending he's doing something for them. We all know it, and they feel it every day. That's why they're against the government, that's why they're asking. The government's aid is limited to a few. Under the conditions set by these few take little and some never get it. It's just the announcements left. What does the budget provide for? In the field of culture where according to ELSTAT the turnover has fallen by 95%, a 15% budget is budgeted. Well done! Every day's life for the large number of citizens is difficult. In the eastern Attica where I live in the middle of a pandemic, health structures operate fully subordinated. Hospital in East Attica doesn't exist. It was a success of the government of SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras who had agreed with the Cypriot government to build a hospital the Cypriot government in East Attica and appoint it to the state. According to what the Undersecretary of Health told me at one last question, it will never be this hospital, because he said it costs too much. Doctors of health centers have moved to CIVID -19 reference hospitals because the government refuses to hire nurses and medical staff. We have a big problem with transport in Eastern Attica, while the professionals and the people of the primary sector have been irreparably affected by the consequences of the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, have the government succeeded or not? The figures - I conclude, Mr President - say that this government has been tried and failed. He needs another, progressive state, another progressive plan. We'll remember the nice words, the election announcements, the perfect dreams, and if we have anything left of all this sad reality, it'll be the careless cyclist of Parnitha, who makes orthopaedics in the downhill. Obviously, we are voting against the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u358	Thank you. Mr Philipos Loading from New Democracy has the floor. Next is Mr. Haritsis, Mr. Delis and Mr. Kontozamanis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u359	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the great American historian and philosopher Will Duran had once written in the History of Culture that the "Health of the Nations is much more important than the Rich of the Nations". So at the present time, its revulsion is more timely than ever. Especially in view of this unprecedented health threat that has tested humanity in the last century. A crisis, affecting both the health and the well-being of our society. So the 2021 budget is focused on aid policies and the economy and business as well as households, while at the same time listening to and calculating the scientists' science and opinion on the protection of human existence. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of a battle. We therefore have a duty to stand, but also to plan methodically and targetedly the next day, a day that we seek to restore the development of the national economy and the prosperity of the Greek society. In our country, the majority of its citizens show confidence in science, but also in the value of education. It shows faith in coexistence and convergence of ideas and objectives, in the tolerance of the different, but which leads to constructive dialogue. It has the values of the West. It seeks the advance through work, progress, responsibility. These values are represented by the current government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis and the current budget is also proof of all this. Contrary to all this, ladies and gentlemen of the Great Opposition, in the years of your government's term of office, you have ignored and misleaded this majority in a variety of ways. We, in the liberal party, recognise that in important, critical circumstances the state can play a role that the private sector cannot perform, but that does not mean that we believe in the big state. We are only motivated by the defence of public national interests, without demonising entrepreneurship and extroversion, which are components of growth and prosperity. Our policies are political responsibility. Unfortunately, in Greece of Postpopulation, the policies pursued were not as liberal and progressive as they should be. But progress in a state is above all the defence of dignity, which is a prerequisite for freedom. This budget is a proposal and dignity and freedom. It is a budget that forms part of a wider and long-term strategy, along with the proposal to make use of the European Union Reconstruction Fund and the National Pissaridis Plan for the development of the Greek economy. This budget is investment-friendly, Greek and foreign, which will help to recover the next day. It has a social person and a fine, with fewer taxes and less insurance contributions, with an emphasis on increasing productivity, with practical and effective protection of labour, with the necessary weight to strengthen social cohesion, a concept of multi-used, I would say, which at the present time is the most demanding and betting of the Greek state. Incidentally, therefore, the Greek Government has been standing next to society all this time. For example, in the case of the Cyclades Prefecture, this year, aid amounting to more than EUR 464 million was granted from a variety of financial sources. The measures taken by the Government for shipping and Greek seafarers were of decisive importance. There are many important contributions made in general, especially at the level of the island policy. While respecting the time for other Members to speak, I shall briefly refer to some of these measures. In particular, these measures protected as far as possible the health of the inhabitants of the islands. They ensured the uninterrupted maritime connection of the islands with mainland Greece. They supported shipping, maritime and business as well as workers in this sector. However, it is certain that other measures will follow, particularly in areas with local and geographical characteristics, such as islands. Of course, the conditions for the horizontal implementation of an island clause in our legislation, regulations and administrative decisions are now ripe. On this point, I would like to make an appeal from the Step of the House, Mr President, to the head of the Ministry of Health regarding the primary vaccination against the coronary and Greek seafarers, who work daily under adverse conditions and give so much to the Greek economy and society. Ladies and gentlemen, our Government with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, with this realistic, developmental, pro-investment, reformist, flexible and socially fair budget, proves that we are going to Greece a lot ahead. For all these reasons, I am voting in favour of the budget and I invite you to do the same. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u360	Thank you for your time. Mr. Alexis Haritsis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget - and every budget - is both an account and a plan for the future. So our country has obviously had a very difficult time in a decade with the crisis. What we are experiencing today is even beyond the most pessimistic imagination. You will of course tell me that the whole planet is in an unprecedented state. No objections. But it is not the consequences of the crisis that are the same for all countries, it is not the consequences of the crisis that are the same for all citizens. Because even in these suffocating conditions, in particular, I would say in these suffocating conditions, political choices are of enormous importance. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government, have chosen to go back to half a few months' suspension of commitments and new borrowings for businesses which are already in debt to the neck, to leave entire branches, very critical, such as tourism, focusing, retailing, culture without any substantial support, completely exposed to the crisis. In our opinion, this is not your option accidentally. It is precisely abrupt of neoliberal ideas, in which you are trapped, without following what is happening around you, as if the logic of the "invisible hand" of the market that would be a cure for all economic diseases has not failed fully the logical slimming of the public space, the reasonable depreciation of social infrastructures. Because at the moment in Europe and internationally, very important shifts have taken place. And these concern not only left-wing or radical circles, but even systemic. It is now accepted by more and more that state intervention in the economy is essential to tackle the crisis, that support for basic social infrastructure, primarily in health and education and in the welfare state, is essential for social cohesion and necessary conditions for any development debate and that ad hoc assistance for specific demands of great interest cannot be recommended. Central planning, development planning, long-term shielding of the economy and society is needed. That is what the international organizations are now demanding. I would remind you that the OECD and the Commission, in their recent joint report on health in Europe, point out that European health systems and especially those in which austerity has been imposed, have become extremely vulnerable to crisis management, with unpleasant results for the health, economy and public confidence in governments and ask - the OECD and the Commission, I repeat - a significant upgrade of these systems. You are unfortunately absent from this international debate and are presenting the new text as something, the Pissaridis report, which is like having been written two decades ago, as if its authors do not know what has happened in our country, but also internationally, through this ten-year crisis, but also what is happening today. It is just a report that ritually repeats yesterday's propositions, privatisation as a lever for growth, flexibility of the labour market to boost competitiveness, redistribution to the detriment of many and few. No surprise! This is the government's recipe as early as July 2019. She used to throw us in the crisis a decade ago. Today, what are the results of this policy? At the bottom of Europe in terms of income losses, at the bottom of Europe in terms of recession, according to EUROSTAT's official figures. The worst thing, however, is that this is not only about what you have done up to now, but even more about what you are planning for tomorrow. That's why I first talked about ideoscopy. Because the 2021 budget shows precisely why, while you are forecasting for the first time a two-digit recession for 2020 and a much smaller growth for 2021, you are basically admitting that the outrage of the reality that you have attempted over the past few months has been lame and false, essentially what the budget contains for 2021, you continue in the very same recipe as if nothing were happening. Reduced social costs, stable public investment and increased tax revenue are foreseen. There is no provision for support for small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed persons. But, well, do you expect that, when the lockdown is finally lifted, it's all going to be a watch for the small and medium-sized ones? Is it possible, with the loss of even the Christmas season, in which, according to the operators themselves, they normally make 25% with 30% of their annual turnover? But you will allow me, especially at this juncture, not to focus as much on numbers as we do on other occasions. Because I think it is not a formal budget debate that we are doing today. We must not forget that these days we are discussing, while a whole society has exceeded its limits, the limits of health, with almost a hundred dead every day, the limits of economic, business and despair workers not knowing what dawnes them, but also the limits of the mentalities of a society looking from somewhere to catch, but not by reference to the future to overcome the dire present, as you do. Why, of course, should the vaccine be defined, that the vaccinations should go ahead, but until then what do we do? How does this society survive? It is a good thing that, when they come, the funds from the Recovery Fund, what the European Union of course is activated - I am opening a parable, precisely why it is escaping from these ideas that you are even invoking - but until then how will business live? How will the workers keep their jobs? And of course, when these funds come, how will they be exploited? Will society see them or will they go back to a few deep pockets? We believe - and we believe that from the outset - that there is another way of supporting society in these very difficult conditions, making use of the finite, of course, but extremely important, unprecedented, unprecedented, over the last few years' possibilities, from the pan-European lifting of budgetary restrictions, from the 'cushion' of security created by SYRIZA for these very cases, for such crises and which, of course, you have also taken note of from the unprecedented liquidity injection provided by the European Central Bank and which allows the state to borrow cheaply. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Your tolerance for a minute, Mr President. We have tabled specific, costly proposals at the very first moment, which go exactly in the direction of those applied in most European countries which, if they had been implemented in front of us, as we requested, would have offered social relief, reduced the recession, saved public finances and created minimum conditions for development. Why, what have you finally achieved today? And the GDP will also turn off public finances to derail and the recovery to slow down, and of course the economic climate to dismantle. We have insisted on the last few weeks. We have tabled new proposals for the payment of the Christmas gift by the state, for the emergency income for the households affected, especially for the period of December, which, especially in these circumstances, after the extension of Lockdown, become even more time-consuming. You rejected them too. And all right, we're not listening, we're the Opposition. The cry of anxiety of the representatives of the producer organisations, do you not hear it? Those who find a click away from extinction don't you hear them? I have here yesterday's announcements. Athens Chamber of Commerce: "Additional measures to support small and medium-sized entrepreneurship are more than necessary". HSY: ‘The resistance of the already affected by the ten-year crisis of small and medium-sized commercial enterprises has reached its limits’. EBEA: ‘Government of bankruptcy’. GWEI: 'The survival of thousands of small and medium-sized commercial enterprises is left to their fate without the announcement of a substantial measure of support from the government'. I'll testify to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u362	Please close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u363	I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. We call on you, even now, to move on to a brave programme of support for small and medium-sized enterprises, to cover salaries, to support households, to increase the health budget, to strengthen the Public Investment Programme, which will also serve as a guide for private investment, and to regulate the private debt which is being launched again in recent months. At the moment society is waiting for answers from all of us and above all from the government. These answers, of course, do not say they are easy. Ready recipes don't exist in the tectonic developments that we live in. However, we are convinced that the SYRIZA programme to support society today, as a condition of survival now, but also for the necessary transformations tomorrow, a programme of social reforms and radical changes, can take us out of today's deadlock and give us a new real prospect of social prosperity and collective security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Delis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u365	And while everything was going well, the coronary suddenly showed up and the thing went wrong! That's what the government says from morning to night. But in close proximity to SYRIZA, who's giving this all a variant, saying, apart from the coronary, it's the government's fault. Conclusion? For both of them everything was going well, for the government by spring 2020 and for SYRIZA by 2019. Now, how well it was all going to your senses, the people's families have known and lived it for years. You have taken care of all of you, in recent years as governors, to lose half of their purchasing power, either with the axe in the bills and wages, or with the carpets of taxes. But why are you loading everything on the coronary? But because you want to hide the main cause of the crisis, the billions that don't find a profitable way out, so that the people don't see that this crisis, like the previous one, is a capitalist crisis and therefore you can make it easier, with these hypocritical 'all together's, to charge him the burdens of this crisis. And while the New Democracy has already started this anti-popular project, SYRIZA blames it for lack of plan and a lack of, he says, empathy. As if the New Democracy lost its classic orientation, and poor do not know, it no longer feels what it is doing! We're talking about great opposition, tough and substantial! But the budget that we are debating also has a five-fold class seal in favour of capital and a class-to-track empathy: 3.5 billion more revenues from taxes. We're not increasing taxes, they say the New Democracy MPs! So if you raised them, how long would they go? The 2.5 billion of these indirect taxes are paid by many every day. Although within the pandemic, 572 million less for public health. I mean, imagine we weren't in a pandemic. As far as education is concerned? Every year and less: EUR 30 million less for the year than was given this year. From 2009 until today we have been at minus 2 billion. Who's covering this reduction? Who else? People's families, who are diluted by the shortcomings of state education. But months, children, parents and teachers are suffering. We are already in the second month of the second school closure and telecommunications, although less, still has problems. To keep the system from beating again, of course, if a family happens to have children both in high school and in high school. And it is not very small houses, which - apart from tele-education - have also become parents' intensive teleworking facilities. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Of course not. Thousands are children, and with the Ministry's own figures, which have neither the means nor the support for it, because the state simply did not guarantee them. Known are the images - you saw them all - with students taking a lesson in the pavement of their exit or in the village's cafeteria, to get a WIFI signal. As for the tabs that he says he sent the Ministry to schools through sponsorships, they don't even really get to the minimum to meet the needs. But from all that came out a great truth, that no tele-education can replace the live lesson, that no digital class will ever be able to give this wealth of cognitive, emotional, social, that is given by the real school class. But was this second school closure fatal and inevitable? Did you get rid of all the actions you could and have to do so that this shutdown doesn't take place? Not again, no! No additional measures were taken for the safe, regular operation of schools, and even when students were mobilizing by asking for measures, you were welcome by chemical and productions. Can anyone, of course, say here: Wait, here we have a general quarantine, closed everything, the schools would stay open? We remind you that high school and high school closed a week before the general lockdown, despite what the government said would be the last to close. Do you want to see what's going on abroad? Sure. Schools have not been closed everywhere in the countries that go through the second wave of pandemic, but also in our country, let us not forget that special education schools are still open even today, but they have not even been given the extra protection measures that these schools need. But the day before yesterday you actually put the "cream on the cake"! The Ministry of Education, therefore, as if nothing were happening, as if it were normally done, normally sent a circular for the score, says, of the first quarter! It'd be funny if it wasn't diseductive. Listen once to the teachers. It's for the best of the kids. If we go to the universities that they never actually opened, that's where you didn't do and do absolutely nothing. Or maybe you do. You're giving money, you're giving money. But only to intensify the repression within them. This is your priority, not your lessons. You give 30 million infrastructurals, it says, security at universities and for bravos, while you're kicking out students from their homes. Like education and culture. His budget rate has been completely symbolic for years: 0.04% for culture! And you say that you will also finance the new ACROPOL organization and the financial losses of all the supervised bodies of the Ministry of Culture. And what about the civilization workers? Hundreds of thousands are according to the Ministry and half of them have not received any benefits at all, as thousands of small professionals and small businessmen with or without the CAR have not seen. And, really, what will those artists - who are a majority - who did not succeed in 2020 - and how can they do it? - to gather twenty-five just equivalents required for the unemployment benefit? What about them? Their own one-way, we say, is neither fatalism nor waiting. It's their organization and class struggle with the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u366	Thank you. Mr Kontozamanis has the floor now, followed by Mr Karasmanis. Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u367	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the Ministry of Health the 2020 report has a positive mark on the governance of the National Health System and in particular on its financial management. I would remind you that when we took over the Ministry's leadership, we were faced with a huge amount of unpunished expenses in hospitals due to the previous government's tactics to carry expenditure from year to year. We have legislated and invoiced unregulated costs, increasing hospital budgets by EUR 67 million. We have reduced the dues, we have recorded the costs of refugees' hospitalisation. We have reclaimed and received 12.1 million euros. We have legislated on the effective accounting support of hospitals. We have legislated on redistributing budget appropriations between hospitals to ensure flexibility in decision-making and the optimum use of available resources. We have made it possible to clear clawback with investments in clinical studies, research and development costs and productive costs in the field of medicine, giving incentives for health investment. We have strengthened hospital budgets with more credit. The original budget of the National Health System Hospitals in 2020 was set at EUR 1,753 billion, when the corresponding amount of 2019 was 1,619. In terms of the health ministry's budget for 2021, compared with 2020 alone, an increase of EUR 397.6 million is foreseen and for hospitals an increase of EUR 172 million is foreseen. In any case, additional appropriations necessary for the management of the koruna will be provided in the same way as in 2020. These credits, among other things, will also cover the cost of vaccines for the coronary, which will be free for the citizens and we will be ready to start vaccination once the vaccine is available. I would point out that in 2020 during the pandemic, all the necessary resources were made available, human, material and economic, in order to tackle the pandemic: more than seven thousand recruits of ancillary personnel. Renewal of all fixed-term contracts up to and including 30 October 2021. Publication of three notices of a total of four hundred and twenty-three permanent posts of medical staff and a thousand two hundred permanent posts of nine other staff. Establishment of two thousand two hundred fifty-five positions of qualified emergency and intensive nursing and nursing public health. Recommendation of five hundred doctors' posts in intensive treatment units and a thousand nursing posts. Adequacy of personal protective equipment. Free diagnostic checks for the coronary. Overdose of beds in intensive care units. Adequacy of medication. Ensure access to the coronary vaccine via the common European supply. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2021 we are stepping up our efforts to move forward with the necessary changes in the health sector. We make sure that every euro that is spent produces the highest possible value for people who need health services. We continue our interventions in order to provide high-value services that contribute to the efficient use of resources and ensure the quality of services and universal access of the population. A few months ago we set up the Health Services Assurance Agency, which aims to help health service providers provide safe, efficient and high quality health services with a focus on the citizen and his needs and contribute to their continuous improvement. In addition, the PPPY will make a decisive contribution to strategic health planning for the reorganisation and upgrading of health services with a view to equal access and universal coverage of the population. In addition, the Ministry of Health will participate in a modern transnational OECD programme, ‘PaRIS’, which aims to develop a common core of self-reporting indicators and on this basis explore, inter alia, patients' experiences from receiving health services and self-reporting results from healthcare. Through this programme and the PPPY, the country will finally be able to compare its performance to those of other countries, identify good practices and recognise scope for immediate improvement. Broader health reforms, which we are moving on, are the strengthening and development of an integrated primary health care network, the creation of post-acute hospitalisation structures for the continuation of post-acute hospitalisation, the provision of rehabilitation and relief services, the development of integrated health care units, such as oncological centres and effective functional connection with different health subsystems, the organisation and coordination of health care after the exit of the patient from the hospital, namely integrated care networks, extension and optimal use of home care and telemedicine and digital transformation in the health sector. Also, in order to achieve the efficient use of available resources, in 2021 we will develop satellite health bills that analyse the population health level by age group and leaf combined with health expenditure, starting with the three main categories of disease, such as cardiovascular diseases, neoplasms and endocrine metabolic disorders. In addition, we are developing a model of planning and planning to meet the needs of the health system in human resources and to provide incentives to health professionals for serving health establishments in island Greece and in fertile, remote and problematic areas. In order to ensure the access of all citizens to any necessary pharmaceutical technology, we are developing an action plan to identify uncovered medical needs, we are legislating on developing a horizon scanning system for medicinal products and technologies with potentially important therapeutic value and an impact assessment in the budget, developing the methodology for assessing the value of technology by using real clinical data, supporting European cooperation for joint negotiations and joint evaluations, implementing new types of compensation payment agreements, such as risk-sharing agreements, extending electronic prescription to hospitals, extending our participation in European networks, developing cancer-sharing actions and moving forward to the introduction of preferred treatments in therapeutic protocols after negotiation. In conclusion, I would like to highlight the positive effect on the health sector, which will have funding for actions and projects from the Recovery Fund of more than EUR 3 billion in terms of digital health transformation, investment, modernisation of infrastructure and the creation of a safety and social cohesion network. Ladies and gentlemen, we know very well that it is the only chance to finally build a modern health system. With a compass of public and social interest, we are moving forward so that all of our fellow citizens can have equal access to a modern, public, lawful and effective health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u368	Mr President, until the Step is cleared, I would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u369	Please, do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u370	Minister, I would expect you to have the sensitivity to comment on what has been seen today in publicity about the parallel system of reporting cases. You have not given convincing answers, and this, as you know, has led to the entry into the single system of decayed data at a very critical time when the state must organise its strategy towards the pandemic. You didn't feel that need. Second, is there any chance that the tests could be prescribed? Because the tests, even the vaccine should come, at the same time, there should be a time when we can do them. It won't be eliminated immediately. Vaccination will not take place at the same time as everyone. So we'll have a parallel time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u371	Thank you. The cleaning's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u372	And the last thing I wanted to say is, from July 2019 until March 2020, you didn't make a single IF. Is this related to your perception of public-private partnerships in health that is your vision and has led you to abandon the public health system? Is there any conclusion that you can draw from today's pandemic that to make the public good of health accessible, does it want a strong public system and abandon your ideas?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u374	Please, Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u375	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u376	Thank you. I'll be very brief. Mr Skourletis, we have also said so many times in the context of parliamentary control. One is the system used by the country, one is the number announced every day. There's no double system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u377	It's an announcement. Are there others in the back?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u378	Double books only lasted Mr. Paulakis when he was a mayor. As far as intensive care units are concerned, you did not tell us after the beginning of the pandemic how much was done in the health system. You admit that we almost doubled beds in intensive care units in public hospitals. Only three hundred beds took place in public hospitals from July to today, and at how short a time, after cases have occurred in the past two months, we have managed and operated intensive treatment units without leaving one of our fellow citizens out of an intensive care unit. See what's going on in other countries. One country is carrying out incidents to another. In Greece we've made it and we'll make it by the end. And finally, as far as the test is concerned, we've said it and we'll say it again. The test is free of charge for anyone who meets the criteria to do it so far not only the test, but also everything that the Greek citizen needs as far as the coronary pandemic is concerned has not paid a single euro from his pocket. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u379	Let's move on with Mr. Georgios Karasmani from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u380	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this year's budget has been drawn up, debated, but the main one will be applied in unprecedented conditions for our homeland, where what prevails is a generalized uncertainty about the course and development of the pandemic and its effects on health, economic and social levels. Of course, the overthrows that have brought to our daily lives the year that goes away cannot be reversed in a short time. There's a lot of work waiting for us. However, this government within a year and a half has just been tested, judged, justified and ready to face any consequences of the pandemic. It guarantees her work to date with hundreds of forty bills that brought in shallow areas and gave tangible solutions to problems and chronic illnesses, succeeding in in the first half of the year inspiring a new climate of confidence and raising up the economic climate index. I can hear the colleagues from the Staff Regulations criticising us of public health expenditure. The truth is that the funds in 2014 were 4,75 billion, they shrinked to 3,849 billion in 2018 and today is 4.829 billion. As proof, I shall refer to Pella. All the money that the two Yannits and Edessa hospitals needed for equipment and health personnel was given. That's why they withstand pressure with a hundred COVID hospitalization beds -19 in every hospital. Of course, it is not the hours to explain. It's time for them. Now, for all of us, it's time for the big responsibility. Our doctors and nursing staff have been thrown at night with sacrifices and self-determination in a real war. And that is what we must support them because it is important to deal with this nightmare. In this national effort we must all contribute with wisdom, unity and solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, our government with this year's budget, like the previous one, does not impose any tax or increase insurance contributions. On the contrary, it reduces them and inhibits them, such as, for example, the solidarity levy, which the previous government has five times doubled from 2.2% to 10%, and doubled the tax advance. On the contrary, we reduced the first tax rate from 22% to 9%, which the previous government increased from 13% to 22% to 45%. It gives an extended allowance for heating oil and, in fact, for settlements of up to two and a half thousand inhabitants, for firewood and to the pelt, unlike the previous government, which literally cut it, increasing excise duty by 22% and depleting VAT from 14% to 24%. It also abolished the reimbursement of excise duties on farmers. Enterprises and employees supported by the special-purpose allowance, with the repayable advance, with TPIX, etc. Pella, for example, received a total of 70 million. However, problems arise, such as in Loutra Posars, but also in the mountains of Agios Athanasios, which this year is not working. I am sure that the Ministry's leadership will support, as it has so far been effectively supported, these businesses and workers. Also, they must be supported by clothing, footwear, cafés, etc., that is, micromass and retailers, for whom the festive turnover was the last hope of endurance and even survival. The vast majority of them have no potential for electronic sales. In particular, as far as clothing and clothing shops are concerned, the Greeks want to see and try what they buy. I am sure that a solution will also be found for them, as was the case for workers in the seasonal business, with the reduction of the labels from 100 to 50. A solution will also be found for workers who have a pension reduced to sixty-three years with four and a half thousand marks, but over the last five years they have to be a hundred alcohols. There is a problem here, especially for seasonal workers. I have tabled an amendment to Mr Brutsis, and we have agreed that after the pandemic we will talk, to see what can be done and what solution we will give. I think the 3 billion-dollar programme, which the Prime Minister announced, is very important and ambitious. It will give more than a hundred and fifty thousand households the opportunity to upgrade their homes for a better quality of life, by reducing their costs. At the same time, it will create many jobs, supporting the domestic production of construction, etc., which, together with the suspension of VAT on new buildings, will support the hundreds of jobs in the sector. Of course, it will be a huge injection of liquidity into the market and the economy in general. Since we are talking about infrastructure and development, I believe that 2021 will be crucial for the construction of the Halkidone-Giannitson - Edessa and the Almopian dam, which is of enormous importance for Pella and for the entire Macedonian region. These are projects which the previous government has not only done nothing but has, on the contrary, devalued and put them in "naphthalene". The year that leaves us a deposit. It is the primary sector, which, in the midst of the pandemic, endured when other branches "flooded" and made the need for investment support and strengthening our agricultural production and those directly or indirectly active in it. In this context, damage from this year's spring glacier should be recognised by the ELGA, and the exclusion of the affected due to temporary statements should be lifted, due to the chaos with the first lockdown. I have pointed it out many times. Immediately proceed with the appeal from the hails. To implement the ELGA regulation, which categorically provides for compensation for damage caused by untimely rainfall to peach producers affected by excessive rain in August, for which I have already submitted a great deal of undeniable evidence. Also, to compensate for greenhouse and outdoor crops, as well as grape producers, table and wine-growing. It's a matter of survival. It is also a commitment of the Ministry's leadership, which has been sensitive throughout this period and has supported with targeted compensation for the primary sector, with budget resources and resources from the Rural Development Programme, which has been unlocked after the dawn of the past four and a half years, given the support of the Prime Minister, who has for the first time for the first time since 2010 strengthened the ELGA with 70 million and not only. Thank you for the tolerance of time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, too. Mr. Moraite has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Mr President. The budget that the government brings is the 'large' of the economy and society. It is a budget equivalent to your policies, loyal to the neoliberal economy, which you know very well and all it knows to do is suck the public fund, which is firmly geared to the dismantling of the welfare state, a social deregulation tool and, of course, unlike the reality that Greeks and Greeks are experiencing today. You put the country on a great adventure without end in the middle of a pandemic. You are bringing the country into an unprecedented deadlock and the time we measure daily losses in human lives, you are still managing your vulgar failure, unfortunately, with communal terraces, communal impressions, "strikes under the waist" and dirty games against your opponents. A few months ago you applauded the people of the 'first line', defeated the pandemic - and I remind you - from Santorini with festive figures, you were not prepared for anything and, of course, you were on holiday. On the "shocks" of the already cracked economy, which you led to the recession before the pandemic comes - I know it bothers you, but we will repeat it - share crumbs among the many, coarsely carved their best friends' money, made a framework of opaque assignments for the work to go ahead, arranged for the loans of your powerful friends, voted for a bankruptcy law abortion, so that the violent redistribution of wealth by concise procedures can go ahead. You also left the country's health and health care system on the "autopiel pilot", workers exposed to the elasticisation of work and self-regulated wages, freelance professionals in poverty and benefits. You have made the small and medium-sized enterprises a stake in your financial instruments, because you knew very well that small and medium-sized enterprises did not go through or even pass out of the banks now. You turned every commercial business, the neighborhood shopping store, every small and medium-sized enterprise, into a laboratory of your designs. We've been listening for two months when you opened the stores and when you closed them and finally clicked them off. I mean, just so we know why we're talking. You put them in the same bucket of large-scale orders, purchases and couriers to close those who have withstanded the crisis. It is clear that your policy is with the big chains, with the colossians, who don't need the click away. The traders, however, the small and medium-sized enterprises, you worked on them, you cheated on them, and you consciously did so. I come to the farmers and rural businesses. They're exposed to the huge mess of undisposed products and low degrading prices of agricultural products and you've been watching them from a distance. No measures, no initiatives before the second wave of the pandemic to strengthen them. Of course, I come to the sport movement, to sport. I have listened very carefully today to the State Secretary responsible and I have waited sincerely, even at the moment, and since all this has happened in this very fragile area, to make his self-criticism at some point. On the contrary, he came and told us that everything works a clock. It presented to us a series of projects that had begun on SYRIZA. He told us he was next to clubs and sports. However, the situation he described had nothing to do with the grim reality of Greek sport. I'm sorry to say it, but the State Secretary lives in a parallel universe. He also asked the unions to provide financial assistance today and said that next week the 12 million, which he has been wearing for six months, will be given. If that's possible! One thousand ninety-seven unions out of five and a half thousand will take that money. The Undersecretary of Sports, but it follows intrigue tricks and games to be able to manipulate antiquities in the federations. He's been housewives through the register and the register is currently using it as a tool and on it with "commodities" of the last minute to determine the future of sports federations. The sport movement is trying to turn it into a party champ. And that is the difference in culture and perception of sport. You see him as a product. We are with the real and healthy forces of sport, who fight on the stadiums every day. Sportsmen, coaches and trainers fight their own battle, and the factors of their misfortune are trying to keep the unions upright at this juncture. I am sure that all of these will not follow you in the plan that you have put forward. It is well known to everyone that since last March sport has downloaded rolls. We have locks in the clubs, we have unpaid athletes, coaches, trainers. There's a grim reality. And of course, the last element is the 2021 budget that, if you like, is the identity of where you lead the field mathematically. You lead him to a further depreciation. A few months ago you told us that your decisions were political. After all, then, the daily briefings of scientists have stopped and I would like to remind you. When you called on tourists to visit the safest country in Europe, the country the reference hospitals did not even have antiseptics at the time. You advertised the successful Greek model of management of the pandemic, while citizens stacked on buses like sardines. You opened schools with overnumbered classes and no health protocols. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I'll be done. And when you saw the dark, you proposed again the experts, and today you are hiding behind the scientists' suggestions, as Mr Aeggeakis did on the ground. And I'm asking a question. If that's not political opportunism, then what is it? You're, of course, a master of the kind. The same way you betrayed the middle class, which is your great Waterloe, so you emptyed the superpatriots of lentils. You have succeeded in making the Turkish challenge a dangerous normality. Nine months you are doing the sanctions in Turkey, and you have only received cancellations from Europeans. You failed! You became Erdogan's laughter. But your defeat, I'm sorry to say it, is defeat for the country. And of course, we don't see you changing course. You continue in this failed model, with the known materials, serving the post-practice capital in the country, a state-owned businessman and, of course, your ten - twenty - known businessmen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u383	Please, Mr. Colleague, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u384	I shall conclude, Mr President. Against this model, it's us! We choose to stand by the forces of production, the innovators, who dare, who stand up to this crisis, and that is our great difference! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u385	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u386	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u387	I would like to give an answer to this House, because I have heard - the truth is the first time in this Chamber, while I have been here many days ago - the claim that the recession began - it says - before the pandemic. It seems that the honourable Member does not follow the statistical office's announcements - nor do his new companions talk to SYRIZA very much who have understood what has happened and do not repeat it - which says that in the first quarter we had a 0.4% growth, despite the fact that we were fifteen days in Lockdown.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u388	The last quarter of 2019?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u389	This means that the first quarter, which was before the recession, we had growth, which means that what you say is something that has absolutely nothing to do with it. You can repeat it. You are also presenting yourself with the party to which you belong now. I would advise you to read more “SYNE” as I do, so that you can see the line now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u390	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u391	It's nothing personal, Mr. Moraite. If every Member responds to what the Minister says, we will never finish. We continue with Mr. Georgios Vlato from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 budget was drawn up at the expense of the most serious health crisis, the worst yearly global recession since the end of World War II. Everyone agrees that we are going through a period of uncertainty as the consequences from the pandemic have not yet been addressed, and there are many uncertain factors. The most important thing is how short and effective the vaccination will be to allow us to return gradually to normality. However, despite the unprecedented difficulties, our country enjoys the confidence of partners and markets, which is reflected in the interest rates of Greek bonds. In the midst of a pandemic our economy has been upgraded and the country attracts investment. In 2021, the budget predicts that we will have growth by the end of the pandemic and budgetary figures will be improved. An important role is played by European funds, which the country has ensured in the July 2020 negotiations and will begin to enter under the Recovery Fund. In addition to Community resources, the permanent reductions in taxes implemented by the Government will contribute, with the most significant reduction in income tax on natural persons, the reduction of HPAI, the reduction of tax advance payments, the reduction of three percentage points in insurance contributions from 1 year to year and some. The budget that we are debating is a development budget. At the same time, however, social law is also right, since in 2021 the benefits for support for vulnerable social groups are increased by EUR 600 million. A guide to the transition of the Greek economy from the deep recession this year to the growth of 2021, is the brave support measures of EUR 31.4 billion taken by the Government to support households and businesses affected, along with the dynamics that the Greek economy had already developed before the economic storm broke out. However, I will not repeat, ladies and gentlemen, the figures which all of our rapporteurs, ministers and other colleagues have mentioned these days in the Chamber, because it simply makes no sense for confrontation in this field, with the opposition even invoking the blackest, the most unpleasant, the most disastrous, the most melancholic of our lives. It is true that we are living in a difficult situation, not just us, but the whole of Europe, the whole world. Greece has been above all health and human life since the first moment of the pandemic. It was a government choice, not self-evident, if we see what happened in other countries. It was another choice showing the social face of our party. Consider what we would have heard, ladies and gentlemen, if the choice were in reverse. Like any crisis, however, the current pandemic is most affected by the weakest, most sensitive economies. Unless you think, ladies and gentlemen, that you have inherited a strong economy once again inherited the famous pillow. The pillow, however, I have to tell you that it doesn't do miracles and when you open it, it will end before well - well understand it. The "ready" in the long term never saved any households and no economy. The secret is elsewhere, to support our country's productive forces in order to increase wealth for the benefit of society. In this period we have supported and supported as much as we can the people who need it as well as the economy, without forgetting that the end of this crisis is not yet visible, so we have to keep our strengths and hold our strengths in order not to feel our fellow citizens at this difficult time, as long as they last, that they are alone. Faced with this gigantic effort to tackle the unprecedented crisis that is constantly emerging and new data, the opposition and, in particular, the Civic Anti-Civilisation is fighting politically and when it is on two boats. It chooses what we usually say: 'And healthy and rich'. And who wouldn't want to. He's becoming a veteran of evil, and when he's not confirmed, it's all obviously forgotten. You remember that at the beginning of the summer he said: 'What about watering tourism?' And when tourism opened up, as it opened, with weaknesses and problems, if you wish, then she again remembered the development of the pandemic. In the meantime, because this is the main one, he had proposed nothing. No remedial action, no other policy. In other words, he expects the evolution of events to take place at the corner and he is with anyone who ultimately has a problem. We have reached the point where you are asking for responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, because there are dead and intact. As if this is only the case in Greece. Instead of supporting all of us in our efforts to protect ourselves from illness, you are seeking hope in private clinics and intensive hospitals by hiding the truth that a large number of statistically significant percentage will be found in this position. That is why all the measurements show that the citizens expect nothing from you, because they simply do not believe that you would manage the crisis better. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close by saying that our country and we are all having a difficult time. Residents, acquaintances, friends, fellow citizens leave our lives every day. We must not become a habit of death and the worst one should not invest politically in death. It's time for understanding, it's time to be responsible, it's time to lower tone, there's no need for voices. Let us all see if we can do better by proposing everything that is useful to testify and offer at this time. Instead of fighting for the sizes of this year's budget and their evolution, let us hope that things will not make it difficult and that a revision of the budget is needed. And hopefully soon the light will appear with the new year that will change for the better of our lives. Until then, let's hold on to forces, helping all those who have a greater need to find us the next day together. The numbers are of their own value. This year, however, is the year of hope for the lives of all of us. This budget is the best thing that could be done and that the government can bring this difficult time for it and we support it and we are voting in favour of it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u393	Thank you. Mr. Georgios Francisdis now has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u394	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing a time of uncertainty and insecurity. No one knows when the end of the restrictive measures will mean, but also the end of the coronary pandemic worldwide. Although the magnitude of the effects of the health crisis and the residual functioning of the economy cannot be accurately assessed, the fact is that the Greek reality is being deleted bleak: reduction of incomes, businesses that suffocate financially, increase unemployment, auctions, a national health system that fights heroic and helpless, schools closed, a society that experiences abnormal situations. In this context, the 2021 budget seems uncertain and uncertain. Not by chance came up after three revisions to the hand, confirming the initial criticism of the Change for hypersensitivity and incorporation. It is inappropriate, because it is based on fine assumptions, such as an increase in tax revenue by EUR 3.57 billion, that is, 8.1%. Really, where do you calculate and from whom to collect taxes, Minister? From the households in debt and pressure? The companies that remain closed and do not have substantial help? The unprotected unemployed who have no income from anywhere? It is also socially unfair, since it maintains the unequal proportion of indirect and direct taxes and is indifferent to the unequal distribution of incomes. It mirrors the conservative person of the New Democracy Government who is unable to make structural changes and implement policies as required by the Treaties. There is no social sensitivity, since social expenditure is reduced by EUR 1.7 billion for the insurance funds and by EUR 1 billion for the OAED. The ESS bears the burden of the health crisis, and yet it is, in fact, underfunded. For the first time, a strong package of European and national resources is available, but the government does not have a coherent development plan that will alleviate the problems of the recession, support the enterprise and work and aim at the productive and development of the Greek economy. As far as tourism is concerned, the government has turned him from an opportunity to a threat, opening the borders without security, with regressive and problematic communication. Liquidity remains the biggest problem for tourist businesses and support measures for businesses and workers are insufficient. Hotels did not close by government order on 7 November and stayed out of government support measures. However, although typically open, their activity has been eliminated as a result of the curfew. Hotels of mountain tumors are currently in an extremely poor position. Jobs in the industry are gradually falling and the risk of being left behind is visible. A similar problem is, of course, faced with the tourist agencies, the agencies which have also not been closed on a state-owned basis, but have no aid. Seasonal workers in food and tourism remain unprotected. It is eighty-five thousand without income and without the possibility of claiming unemployment subsidies. Tourist companies that traded with THOMAS COOK were not exempted from the obligation to pay the unrealised VAT on tariffs. Our important proposals, such as the brave domestic tourism programme and the reduction of VAT rate in accommodation and catering at 6%, were not heard. In addition, the recent Pissaridis report attaches little importance to the critical tourism sector, which needs a ten-year strategic plan to enhance the quality of services, strengthen basic infrastructure, digitise services, upgrade human resources education and training, in order to gain skills, useful in the post-crisis labour market, focus on protecting and highlighting the natural and cultural environment and adapting the tourist model to modern reality. However, the budget also ignores the Greek region, since it does not contribute to the normalization of the imbalances. Its neglect was revealed with tension during the pandemic crisis. The shortcomings in the regional hospitals of the ESH, for example, the hospitals of northern Greece are very large and, unfortunately, the consequences are tragic. In my region of the Kilkis Prefecture, where about 40% of the hospital beds are COVID, building facilities are 1936 and subscribing to medical staff for the treatment of a coronary is most serious. All the doctors' critical specialities are missing. Of course, it is the only hospital in the 4th RCD that has no MFF and ITH beds. So the creation of ICUs and the reinforcement of the hospital with appropriate staff are what should have been done yesterday. Also, the building of the new Kilkis nursing home, an important project for the local community, launched in 2006 and implemented 80% of the work, remains stable, although the Deputy Minister of Labour was committed to Parliament during my current question in October 2019 on its immediate completion, since there is funding. The 2017 RCF payments were selectively paid in the county, but not in Kilkis, while the relevant Minister left an unanswered question in the House. This separation is made by the government in many areas of agricultural production. The aid for COVID -19 was excluded for wine growers, the main professiond farmers on arable crops such as cereals, cotton, olive growers of the Halkidiki type cultivated in northern Greece. The sheep and goat farmers were strengthened by the degrading amount of EUR 3.8 per animal, and those cattle were completely excluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u395	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u396	I'm done. Instead of reintroducing the excise oil tax to farmers, there was an increase in oil by 3 to 4 minutes, raising the costs to farmers, farmers, while in the improvement plans there was no absorption in 2020. Gentlemen of the government, our country has survived difficult situations in recent years. But the pandemic tends to become our Waterloe. The times require social sensitivity and innovative policies that unfortunately the budget does not have, and that is why I am voting against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u397	Thank you. Mr. Loverdos has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u398	Mr President, I take the floor for something unusual, but I am really shocked and very sad. One of our people died, Lefteris Katsikarelis. He was the secretary of our party's organization for years. Behind our successes he always stood. He was defeated by the brute after a month's battle. I don't know what to say, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u399	The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Dimitris Kouvelas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u400	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Thessaloniki Parliament, I can assure you that Thessaloniki and the wider region are within its limits, but it is withstand. And it can withstand the health system because it renders the plan drawn up by the relevant ministries, health regions and all those responsible for dealing with the pandemic. I would like to take the opportunity and thank once again the city's sanitary staff for their difficult struggle with the invisible enemy. We owe them a lot, and I'm sure at the end we'll all win. This year's budget and our government's economic policy under discussion are not only decisive for the year 2021, it is perhaps crucial for the next decade. So the budget under discussion, apart from figures and forecasts, is above all planning, a real road map that includes design for the post-COVID era. We are discussing the second budget of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis in the midst of a global dramatic treaty, which leads the planet to the biggest economic crisis and not just to meet after World War II. The budget, however, of 2021, is also a pretext for making use of the recovery fund's funds of 32 billion that our country is entitled to following the successful negotiation of the Prime Minister at the summits and the recent final agreement. The government has made difficult decisions since the first day of the pandemic with two goals. So on the one hand, we have set the goal of safeguarding public health on the other hand, while at the same time supporting and saving the economy. If we add the immigration policy, the crisis in this area and the constant challenges of our neighbour, which force our Armed Forces to be on lasting standby, we perhaps have the most difficult equation that a Greek Prime Minister has to solve. Let us not forget that the loss of GDP due to the recession can be replaced. But the loss of our fellow people because of the pandemic is not made up. That is why there was a conscious choice and unnecessarily negotiated by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and our Government to promote the protection of the life and health of citizens. And we continue to do so consistently, plan and effectiveness in your conviction, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, who are coming to invoke even numbers of victims from the pandemic, to prove that the government - supposedly - did not take care to shield the health system in the summer that passed us, and if the second wave of pandemic is world-wide, and let 800 million more than the health budget for the past five hundred sixty ICUs have been allocated, and today we have more than a thousand two hundred and let there have been over seven thousand health recruitments in the past few months. And if not all of this, as you tell us, think about the shortcomings in the health system when we took over 15 months ago, after five years of SYRIZA governance. But we didn't leave the economy in her luck. In addition to the full effect of the tax reductions, which we adopted last summer, in the months of the health crisis, there have been interventions that will reach EUR 32 billion at the beginning of next year through sixty-two categories of measures to assist businesses, professionals, workers and the unemployed. The aim is not to lose a single job. And we're going well, according to the official evidence from the Commission. Money has been made transparently, with certainty, from real resources available, keeping fuel for the tanks of the budget under discussion. That will, moreover, mean planning and prediction. You know, in Thessaloniki there are too many professions running around the hundreds of catering businesses, with thousands of workers in these businesses and ultimately too many families that are supported by this activity. Recently, the data that will not allow the operation of these enterprises has come to light soon. Accordingly, the city’s hotels were found in very low axes. This year no school trips were made. There were no conferences and exhibitions in the city. This year's Thessaloniki International Exhibition did not take place. The summer season for the city of Thessaloniki was essentially like it never existed. Of course, the commercial world is obviously being tested and the city’s approximately two thousand taxi. Can you imagine there was no provision, but also the possibility of additional support for all these enterprises from the financial staff? That is exactly what the next year's budget is doing. It continues targeted, exploited and any available European tool, to support the real economy, without any new tax, with money that is largely subsidisation and low borrowing. At the same time, the budget makes no discounts on the non-negotiable choice of the Mitsotakis Government, namely to show social solidarity and to support our weakest fellow citizens. This increases by 600 million allowances to support vulnerable social groups and, as has been adequately analysed, social policy and welfare. Greece has been unable to afford financial derailment, which some have proposed for nine months, by supporting the doctrine of "God all of them". I hear stereotypes from SYRIZA's colleagues criticise the Prime Minister and Ministers for admiring themselves. I would suggest that you, ladies and gentlemen of the Staff Regulations, make a little self-criticism. And if you don't, people do. They judge you, and firmly prefer the New Democracy government and the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, to all the measurements that are made. A similar trust is enjoyed by the government and internationally. And, of course, we all have been an example of the success of the pandemic in the world last spring.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u401	Last year!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u402	This year, a few months ago. Ladies and gentlemen, the most impressive thing, however, is that the government insists on implementing its programme statements and commitments, despite the pandemic. The Prime Minister did not stop repeating that reforms continue because we promised Greek citizens. Thus the 2021 budget is based mainly on the successful economic policies of the last year and a half. It also aims to take advantage of the opportunities that have come to the pandemic and fortunately the government has not left and will not let go lost. We found five hundred digital services available for the citizen, and in a few days we will enjoy a thousand two hundred, many of them in application of our mobile phone. The implementation of the fourth generation technology park "Thess INTEC" is progressing in Thessaloniki. While the investment-friendly environment that we created led the well-known "PFIZER" to announce, a few days ago, the creation of a second digital centre for technology and innovation, which will raise new jobs in six hundred, very soon, in the first phase. These positions are 'brain gain', ladies and gentlemen. The experience of students from teleworking, as well as teleworking, will have useful practical applications in everyday life and in the future, a daily life we expect on a basis that will become much better for all of us after the vaccinations began. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Finally, Mr President, the new budget safeguards and strengthens public health. It also supports the economy, despite reduced revenues. He sets realistic targets. It continues to promote the reforms and will, of course, be adapted to the needs and demands of the pandemic. The need for a successful implementation of the budget of course leaves no room for reassurance, but the guards are aware. We'll all make it together. We owe it to the citizens, we owe it to the new generation. I urge you to vote in favour of the budget for the year 2021. Thank you very much, and I wish you all a happy Christmas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u403	Thank you very much, Mr. Kouvella, too. You have been informed that we will go to Mrs Karamanlis, and now I will give the floor to Mr Theodoro Livanio, the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u404	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when last year's Parliament approved the 2020 budget, we were all waiting for a different year. Unfortunately, pandemic changed everything. The whole world, every country on the planet, found itself in an unprecedented circumcision. GDP, in almost every country, has retreated and fortunately economic indicators have gone further back hierarchically than the protection of public health. That is exactly what the government has done. There was never a dilemma: health or economy. For nine months, in coordination, it has managed an unprecedented health crisis, with more than doubled intensive treatment units, with practical financial support for those affected, with the brave emergency funding of the municipalities and regions. Let me focus on support for self-government. Within 2020, the Ministry of Interior supported the municipalities and regions of the country since the beginning of the crisis, before the financial consequences of the pandemic emerge. From March to May 2020 86 million was provided for supplies of material, workers' protection and other costs, 2.5 million for the health protection of Roma, 1.5 million euros for food needs for stray animals, within three months and only in municipalities. Similarly, the regions, at the same time, received EUR 15 million. And before the second wave of pandemic begins, at least sharply, in October 40 million, based on the actual losses of the municipalities as recorded in the Observatory until 31 July. And you know what? If nothing else, we had a fair solution. The financial burden on the municipalities is neither horizontal nor economically equivalent. Another loss of revenue has a small mountain municipality and another loss of revenue has a municipality that has a strong tourist element. Another loss of revenue has a municipality that is based and has a lot of catering shops and another municipality which does not receive much money, for example, from the end of the misappropriation. Thus, in October, 40m euros were given on the basis of a specific algorithm, to cover the needs and revenue losses due to the coronary. Also in November, one month later, a new extraordinary funding of EUR 50 million was approved to the municipalities of the country and in the next few days, and yet before the end of the year, another one, emergency funding, which will be shared half a month across all municipalities and half on the basis of the actual losses that have been recorded in the Economic Automation Observatory. The amount is estimated at around 75 to 80m euros. Also, tomorrow and the next few days, the regions are exceptionally strengthened and with the sum of EUR 10 million. This, ladies and gentlemen, is called practical support for self-government. And that's not all. In cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, whose leadership I am truly grateful, the municipalities were given over EUR 100 million for the repayment of outstanding liabilities, over EUR 80 million for the repayment of final judicial decisions, an overall amount within the municipalities for 2020 of approximately EUR 400 million in exceptional aid. It was cash and directly available to the municipalities. As a soul said: "These are money coming to the edge" for the benefit of local communities and for the purpose of alleviating the pandemic-affected enterprises and economic consequences. And be sure all of you are about one thing, that as long as the pandemic continues, the government will be close to self-government. Needless to say, from July 2019 the government took over and within 2020, it moved directly, effectively, to a series of natural disasters that hit Greece, from Halkidiki, Thassos, Samos, Thessaly, Hersonissos, Evia to Litochoro. For the first time, self-government saw the government really beside it at these critical times, with works and not with words. Within a year, too, an additional year of the affinity of self-government has been completed, as well as of the elected and citizens, the possibility of the property being settled so that the information that exists in the municipality is compatible with the real surface of the property. Moreover, by means of a digital platform of more than sixty million square metres, sixty square kilometres have been identified and the respective fees from the municipalities will be collected. Some 120 euros a year from now on will be the annual revenue of the municipalities. And it will be voted before the end of the year the arrangement for the up to a hundred twenty instalments of repayment of the obligations of the citizens and businesses to the municipalities of the country, so that through a new single digital platform we can, in the midst of the pandemic, facilitate the debtors for all their debts to the municipalities, in order to facilitate the debtors, but also increase the revenues of the municipalities, which are many years and decades outstanding. But, unfortunately, I have seen in particular from the point of view of Officerial Response that it must not speak with its officials in self-government, nor be in contact with its own self-government and collective bodies. For many times you do not even respect self-interest in self-government, and I would say that we see that often even in your parliamentary control. You often talk and ask things that are inside the core of self-government and you try with charming, with beautiful phrases, with some popular cries to make impressions. Anything that goes ahead of self-government finds you across the street. I can't explain it. You cannot probably understand that for this government mayors and district rulers are all equal to us regardless of party origin. To close, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u405	You're telling us that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u406	Of course we tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u407	Ask me. You're talking to anyone?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u408	Mr. Skourlet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u409	Of course, we're talking. Because, Mr. Skourletis, with all due respect...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u410	Mr. Undersecretary, don't have a dialogue. Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u411	Mr. Undersecretary...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u412	Mr. Skourlet, please. This is no time for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u413	Finally, Mr President, in the next few weeks we will discuss with self-government a leading incision, which will be two incisions. At one level there is a redistribution of responsibilities between central government, region and municipality, so that we can give self-government the necessary tools and at last make a clear division of responsibilities between all the actors in the state. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Just a minute, Mr President, I shall conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u414	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u415	You know, we believe that better knowledge of local problems is made by local and regional authorities and that will be reflected in the new law. And all municipalities, whether it is Gaydos, whether it is Athens, or Agathonisi, or Thessaloniki, will have the same tools at their disposal to promote the interests of their place, and with practical support for the human resources and the application of new technologies. And finally, the second level is the new single code of self-government. Some five hundred amendments have been made since 2006. We are talking about a new model of governance, a new system of supervision, so that in the autumn of 2021 all the monitoring services of the municipalities and regions will be fully and fully operated under an independent and meritly selected legal supervisor. It ends the political influence in the control of the lawfulness of decisions, the whole process is accelerated so that it is not a brake but an ally of transparency. We will recommend a new framework of financial management with transparency and accountability, new institutions of participatory process, such as digital budget consultation and the local electronic referendum. A two-month special local authority audit meeting is being set up and proposed by municipal councillors, a new way of organising the municipality and legal persons, and, of course, a new electoral system, so that the person who wins the elections can exercise - and be judged by the citizens - what was elected for. I'd like us all to be allies on this path. I fear that this will not be the case, because we are talking about a genuine progressive reform in the sense of real rather than the dissolution of self-government, it seems that you have recently begun and insisted on a reasonable opposition of the piss, bicycle or open graves. But you know, from 2012 to 2020, a political century has taken place and now we are all well acquainted with each other. It goes without saying that the path of the changes that the country needs is still long and sometimes upside down. In this context, however, the government has shown that it is doing it and can do it. That is why I call on the Members to vote in favour of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u416	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u417	Mr President, I would like the floor to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u418	You have him, Mr. Skourlet. The way you yelled, I got scared.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u419	Minister, you said that you planned exceptional aid to the municipalities by acknowledging that everyone does not have the same needs, but according to their characteristics, if they are mountainous, if they are rural, if they are urban, they have different needs. So why did you not adopt this proper analysis while we gave it to you at the 'CLISTEN' plate, which you have not adopted? So why don't you make a specialization, a categorisation of the municipalities, based on their exact characteristics? Other needs are a municipality, when it has a JHA, and other urban cities, when it serves these needs. You didn't do that thing. Secondly, for the E9 we, by legislating the law, gave the municipalities the opportunity to get into the data and to record the real squares. You did very well to build this platform and at the moment the municipalities have seen the real material in relation to the fees they have to collect. And the last one. This contract of the new programme that replaced the "PHILOPO", the "TRITE", will we ever see it? Because you have abolished the most successful programme that has been in self-government over the last few decades, which has just strengthened without party glasses, without party criteria, precisely recognising the autonomy of local societies, you said that it was in the air and still spent the year and we have not seen the new contract. That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u420	Thank you very much. Here, Mr Levanie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u421	As far as the CAP is concerned, I, first of all, have talked about the exceptional financing of the municipalities, which was done on the basis of losses due to the coronary. Indeed - and I said it publicly, when the law changed - the model you proposed to 'CLISTEN' was in the right direction. There was one problem: there was no evidence. There are no kilometres of the rural road construction officially and recorded. There were no local unemployment rates in each municipality. So I said that we will look at them, look for them, model them and, in collaboration with the CEDEFOP, a model will come, which, if you like, and a pathogenous decades in the allocation of the CFP. That's what we all agree on. And we're in constant dialogue. You know, I had the pleasure of attending ten CEDEFOP conferences, where I heard the majority of the country's mayors. We know the problems and we will see through dialogue everything it takes to correct an injustice, which is particularly affecting the province's municipalities. That's right, you said it, and so do we. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u422	Thank you, too. The speaker of SYRIZA, Alexandros Flabouraris, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u423	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the 2021 budget in the middle of a health crisis and the second wave of the pandemic is under way. This pandemic, however, also internationally highlighted the need for a strong social state with improved state structures in health, education, social security and social welfare. You, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, cannot withstand this finding, because it is in complete contrast with the core of your ideological formation. That's why your government, a right-wing government with extreme right outbursts sometimes, consciously promotes its policy just as it had planned before the pandemic, against society and its needs. Not only because it is incompetent - we strongly have such samples - but because it does not want to escape from its course, ideology with the few against the many who are society. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have failed to manage and deal with the second wave of the pandemic, and so there are thousands of cases and diseases in homes and hospitals, with hundreds of people permeated every day and unfortunately, with many of our fellow people leaving. This bad course was not inevitable, but you did not hear what we proposed from the first moment and from the whole of the opposition. You did not hear the workers and scientists on the front line of battle, not because you didn't know, but why you didn't want to. You did not want to upgrade the National Health System with strong primary health care, with enhanced infrastructure in public hospitals, but above all, with recruitment of permanent health staff who, in particular now, with this crisis, proved to be how necessary it was. You should prescribe the test in order to do much more, but in the scientific way that gives reliable results. You got mixed up with double parallel recording systems. You did not want to impose private health participation in the strategic crisis management planning, not only because you do not have such a strategic planning, but because you retreat to the wishes of the private-sector owners. Gentlemen of the government. all of this should have dealt with the six months that you had before the second wave began. And now don't invest all your politics in coming a vaccine, which we'd better come and we all do. Even now you must move on to these interventions to support the agonizing effort made by everyone and all who serve the public health system. Ladies and gentlemen, you have failed the economy as well. For one and a half years your ideological agenda has been being implemented in full. And the bankruptcy code has passed through a pandemic. And the Hercules plan you are implementing to banks and labour rights, you have adapted to the BSE requirements. And your chosen friends are financed in secret, and the Pissaridis project that unravels public functions and public property promotes it. Even the archaeological treasures you exiled. Even every environmental emblem you disappear. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, with the measures you are taking not only, you do not protect small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, but the general direction of the government, which leads to the closure and destruction of thousands of businesses and part of them being absorbed by the large Greek and foreign funds in our country, is being implemented. Moreover, 4.5% provided for in the development budget, while the OECD only provides 0.9%, you hope it will come in 2021. In my opinion, it is difficult to rely on the saving of the world, which is not at all certain, on private investment that is not given, on the tax revenue you hope will also come from the evacuation of household consumption. At the same time you keep the Public Investment Programme at very low levels. Your choices so far for the economy are true molds and are developed in the same way, with what you have led the country to bankruptcy and society in despair. These results, however you are trying to make them, are also reflected in the indicators that place us in European Union positions. The budget that you bring to us today fully confirms all of this, namely that the disastrous management of the health and economic crisis so far is inextricably linked to neoliberal choices found at the core of the ideological grouping. It is clear that 2021 continues as in 2020 with zero costs for infrastructure in the ESS, for tourism workers, with the non-support of seasonal workers, with zero aid for freelance professionals and various others. Your insistence on the management of social inequalities in favour of the few and against the many, we are sure that it will have even more disastrous consequences for the country and society. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this right-wing policy, there is another project, in the opposite direction, that at its heart puts human needs above profits, which expresses a new development model with fair and inclusive growth, with social orientation, with provision for regional development and ensuring environmental equilibrium, with the protection of workers, the increase in wages, support for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, the strengthening of public infrastructures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This is a model that can guarantee the reduction of inequalities, and that is what SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance proposes to the people and calls it into public dialogue to improve and complete it. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to omit a reference to the diplomatic defeat suffered by our country, the first responsibility of Mr Mitsotakis, which is very costly. The responsible must accept it and seek to strengthen our role in the European Union. Finally, to be informed about the past, but also the future: the country has not been bankrupt by us. You went bankrupt. Many of you sat on the same governmental benches. History didn't start in January 2015. In 2015, the attempt to get her homeland and her people out of the bottom, to pull out the neck of the noose you wore us. In the summer of 2019 this effort was interrupted. But the citizens now suffering, the democratic, the progressive citizens, the young people, those who were deceived will stop returning and soon the effort that was interrupted in 2019 will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Mr. Flambury. Imathiotis Mr Anastasios Bartzokas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u425	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Ministers, the debate on the budget coincides with the end of the year and allows us or better to impose, I would say, an account of the year that goes away. This year, if anything, was marked by much pain and still accompanied by great mourning. Because we are all mourning ourselves for the lives that have been lost because of the pandemic, and this is, unfortunately, a very heavy tax. It may be that 2020 has been stigmatized by the coronary and human losses, but we are giving it this battle of old and heroic. And from this battle our heroes, who, instead of armor, wear aprons and uniforms, are over microscopes, cash machines and computers with microphones. All of these, to all of them, doctors, nurses, drivers and administrative staff of our hospitals, to employees who carry out courier and product distributions, to the employees of supermarkets and first-time trading shops, to the security bodies of the country, to our accountants, who work at night to support the Greek business, teachers, teachers and scientists, but above all to the entrepreneurs of the country, who need other support from the state, a support that they will have. Enterprises, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, are provided for as long as necessary by the budget. Thank you, therefore, all and thank you for the greatness of the human offer and for the back you have put into the difficult. The state owes you. It would be a mistake to believe that this year, the year marked by the pandemic, did not have many important victories and even on many levels. We have regained our credibility and expelled from us the shame of the beggar and the pariah of Europe, the one that SYRIZA has condemned us with its "proud" negotiation. We won Evros with the bravery that the Security Corps showed once again. We also succeeded in the level of diplomacy, because we have achieved significant transnational agreements that will significantly strengthen the security and economy of our country. We fought the division in our country and laid strong foundations to get out of the crisis. And all these victories, together with the fact that we managed to bring the country back to development, which was only temporarily interrupted by the pandemic that we are experiencing today, will be capitalizing and strengthening the year that comes. Because even from this crisis we, all together, will get out stronger. Last year our Prime Minister, in his speech on the 2020 budget, said he did not contain any surprises or fireworks. So this year. This year's budget does not hide any surprises, no unpleasant surprises, because no unpleasant surprise is hidden for the Greek citizen's wallet. Because this year's budget of 2021 contains no new taxes. Even with the allegedly bad situation in which the government's budgets have reached, as many tax payments have been suspended, and the State has spent large sums on supporting labour and households, the account will not be paid by the Greek taxpayer. Even within this unfavourable context, taxation is falling, insurance contributions are reduced by three percentage points, and this means a profit for both entrepreneurship and the worker. The contribution of solidarity to the private sector is suspended, with a view to achieving the definitive abolition of the tax. We have also abolished the ENPIA in the remote islands and we are seeking to further reduce the property tax for both households and businesses across the territory. To be fair, however, the 2021 budget also contains a surprise about the Civic Opposition. The budget, then, this year's budget, of the year coming, is EUR 600 million increased in relation to 2020 for the strengthening of the OPECA, that is to say, to support the most vulnerable groups in Greek society. We have said since the beginning of the crisis that no one will remain outside the umbrella of government protection and we mean it. And finally, the Civic Opposition, in addition to the moral advantage that it has no longer proved, does not even have the "monopoly of the heart", as the great Valerie Ziscar d'Esten said. The budget for 2021, in addition to its social dimension, is also a developmental one, because both the short-term annual horizon and the long-term one will lead our country to the final exit from the dawn and prosperity for every Greek citizen. To close, I want to say two words about my place, Imathia. We know that in the next few years our country will be faced with the great bet of growth. Resources from the European Recovery Fund and from the multiannual financial plan will enter our country and be channelled to productive forces aimed at a stronger Greece. Imathia, as well as central Macedonia as a whole, raised a greater burden in the years of the economic crisis than it was and paid for with greater unemployment and a greater fall in the income of the citizens. All my meetings with the actors and local authorities express the strong will to run large-scale development projects that will help to move Imathia and Central Macedonia to the orbit of the developed region. At the same time, however, the resources are not available. So I call on the government to be worthy of our expectations and to guarantee that Imathia, not just will not stay out of this bet, but she will be a protagonist. So with the thought that our way in 2021 will be difficult, but at the end of this difficult road dawnes a better day, I am voting in favour of the 2021 budget, which will be our compass all along this route, with the certainty that we will get out of this battle victorious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u426	Thank you, Mr Bartzokas, for keeping time. Let's go back to SYRIZA and the Member of State, Mr. Vassilis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u427	Thank you, Mr President. I will start with a phrase by Victor Hugo, which says: 'The crisis is overcoming, not cutting the funds of education and culture, but doubling them'. Members of the European governments should be required to read a passionate speech by Victor Uggo in the Constitutional Assembly. It sounded on November 10, 1848, but it's like it was written yesterday. Many of the objections of the famous French writer are unexpectedly topical. In the light of the Ministers' proposal, then, to cut funding for culture, Ugo shows with great conviction that this is a harmful and totally ineffective option: "I, gentlemen, consider the cuts proposed in the special budget for science, letters and arts to be negative for two reasons. They are insignificant in economic terms and harmful in all other respects. This is so obvious that I am embarrassed to expose to the Assembly, in the House of Parliament of the time, 'the result of a rough calculation I have made. What would you think, gentlemen, of a private person, who had an income of a thousand five hundred francs at that time, of course, "has spent every year in his civilisation the absolutely modest amount of five francs and who, one day, decided to make a five-tens economy? A ridiculous economy for the state, but it turns out to be deadly for life of libraries, museums, national archives, tributes, schools and so many other important institutions." And among these, Ugo says the College de France, the Museum of National History, the Paleography School and many cultural centres, for which France should be proud. With a single signature, in those budgets, the cuts would end up humiliating the nation as a whole and at the same time, the poor families of artists and poets, visualists, theater directors, would stay without any support. A famous artist works his whole life without thinking he will get rich and die, leaves in his country a lot of glory, with the only treaty to give his widow and children some bread. The biggest mistake, however, is that expenditure cuts are being applied at the wrong time, when the country, on the contrary, would need to strengthen cultural activities and public education. And what time do you choose? This is, in my opinion, the serious political mistake that I referred to at the outset. What time do you choose to challenge all the institutions by just one act? At a time when the institutions are more necessary than ever, when instead of restricting them, should we broaden and develop them? Just when the crisis is tightening up a nation, it is necessary to double the amounts that are aimed at the knowledge and education of young people, so that society does not fall down on the burden of immortality. What is the great danger of the current situation? 'Insurance', once again belongs to Ugoh,'more than poverty itself'. And it's at a time like this, at a time when you're thinking of attacking, mutilating, stripping all those institutions that have the particular goal of chasing, fighting, destroying immortality. For Uggo, it is not just the prediction of lighting up the city, because the night can wrap up the moral world. If we're thinking exclusively of material life, who's gonna be interested in turning the torches for the brains? It also says "I wish with warmth, passion, bread for the worker, bread for the worker, who is my brother. Along with the bread of life, I want the bread of thought that is also the bread of life. I want to multiply the bread of the spirit, such as the bread of the body." It is public health's duty to turn the man away from the misery of beneficialism and to discipline him in love for selflessness and beauty. We must exalt the spirit of man, turn it to God, to conscience, to the fine, right and true, to selflessness and to what is important. It is an objective that, in order to become a reality, requires choices contrary to what Mr Mitsotakis' final government and the Ministers for Education and Culture have adopted. And I finish again with Ugo, which says "we should multiply the schools, the seats, the libraries, the museums, the theatres, the bookshops" and not leave them closed, like now. "We should multiply the areas of study for young children, the places of reading for the big, all the organisations, all the institutions in which people are concerned, form, gather, learn something where they become better. In a word, we should allow the light to enter everywhere in the people's spirit, because it is because of the darkness we are losing, as we are now. Ugo criticises a short-sighted and mystical political class, which, in the belief that it saves money, is moving forward in the country's cultural dissolution, killing all forms of excellence. You made an unpleasant mistake. You thought you made money savings, while you made an economy in the development of the education and culture of this glorious country, which established them both in the 5th century before Christ.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u428	Thank you very much. The Messinio, Mr. Pericles Mandas, from New Democracy, is next. Get Mr. Drizzas ready. Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u429	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek state was invited in 2020 to face a national test. In terms of fiscal policy, what we are experiencing is one of the greatest challenges in the modern history of the place. In this difficult and unfavourable economic framework we managed in 2020 to find the resources and support the private economy with EUR 24 billion, so that citizens and households can stand on their feet. We managed to return 1,5 billion euros to our retired fellow citizens, i.e. our parents and grandparents, to those who "backed" in the years of the memoranda and supported the cohesion of the Greek family. We have managed and supported their aid by main-professional farmers, the people of production and the countryside who have seen their products remain unfit. With these assumptions, which I believe we cannot dispute, we are called upon to ratify the budget in 2021, which may not be as ambitious as we would like, but is a budget that is wisely, responsibly and realisticly intended to heal and deal with as effectively as the problems that leave us through this unprecedented trial are. However, because we are accountable to the Greek people for any action or action, we have to inform him of what it has to expect and how much the budget that we will be voting on in a few days will affect their lives in 2021. The budget provides for measures to support the real economy of EUR 7.5 billion, which, if we add EUR 24 billion to 2020, will total more than EUR 31.5 billion. The effectiveness, as it has been shown, of the repayable advance is expanding and will extend as much as is necessary to support the small and medium-sized enterprises in our country. And here, Minister, we must focus on the great problem created by the universal closure of shops at holidays. The repayable advance, staff suspensions and the rent reduction measure will cover the operational costs of the undertakings. However, goods, which are left unintentionally, will be the nest in the neck of hundreds of thousands of small traders. We must bravely deal with this problem. I'm afraid the consequences of the commercial sector will be disastrous. I ask you to take advantage of all the opportunities you have and show a practical interest and with the sensitivity you see, to find an additional support measure for these businesses. The budget also provides for measures to reduce the tax and insurance burden of workers and businesses, as well as measures to encourage the creation of new jobs. In other words, it interferes with the core of the people affected by our pandemic of fellow citizens. How does that work? It achieves this by reducing the insurance contributions by three units, where if we add 0.9% that we voted in July, a total reduction is made of 3.9%. It is an important relief for workers and employers, which will contribute positively to increasing employment, increasing the wages of workers and reducing the operating costs of businesses, which, of course, the SYRIZA did not vote for. It still achieves that by abolishing the special solidarity levy, which comes from private economic activity, a tax imposed on the substance in the memorandum era, which is extremely exhaustive for the private economy. It is still able to recruit without insurance contributions for six months, with the aim of creating 100 000 new jobs. It is a measure that will contribute effectively to increasing employment and reducing unemployment, which SYRIZA has not voted for. But above all, this budget does not provide for any new tax for 2021. On the other hand, it further extends the reduced rate of VAT to categories and branches affected by the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget provides for EUR 2.5 billion for strengthening our country's Armed Forces. And I wonder: is there anyone who disagrees with the need to modernise our weapons systems at the current juncture? Is there anyone who disagrees with the strengthening of the Greek Armed Forces? Probably SYRIZA, because his MPs objected to the committee responsible. This year's budget also provides for a 3 billion euro pillow for the National Health System, money that can be channelled into infrastructure, health personnel or any need that arises within 2021, covering the needs of our country's medical and nursing staff, to whom we are all grateful for the great work they do daily in hospitals throughout the country. Ladies and gentlemen, I come from Messinia, a special and unique area. The main pillars of my region are tourism and the agricultural sector. In the tourism sector, the major investment in recent years, culminating in the implementation of the vision of the late Captain Vassilis Konstantakopoulou, has placed us on the global tourist map. I believe that we have as a state to follow this development and to complete the infrastructure needed. The Kalamata - Pylos - Methoni road axis has been launched and we must put the second Tsakona - Good Water axis to the West Messinia and Western Greece with the rest of the motorway network. As far as the airport of Kalamata is concerned, we need to run the concession procedure so that the necessary investments can be made for its development. In the primary sector, olive oil, which is the flagship of our products, despite all the pressures it has had in recent years, is a difficult season, but not a catastrophic one. The aid provided by the Ministry of Rural Development has been beneficial for the main-professional farmers, but many farmers of special status have been excluded from the aid. It is an issue that the Ministry needs to rethink and give a solution. The large irrigation works that our county needs could perhaps join the Recovery Fund. Finally, we are still awaiting funding for the restructuring of the Pacts and the integration of the affected Trifyria greenhouses into support programmes. This year's budget, ladies and gentlemen, finally has a strong ideological and political dimension, because it aims to develop the private economy, invests in the environment, equips our country in defence, strengthens our national sovereignty, improves our national health system, strengthens employment, employment and vulnerable social groups, with incentives, but also rules, policies and practices that dominate almost all over the world and fortunately, with the Government of New Democracy dominates our country as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u430	Thank you very much, Mr Manda, for keeping time. Pireotis has the floor, Mr. Theodores Dritsas, from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u431	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel very little, because a few minutes ago, after New Democracy's colleague broke through, Vassilis Vassilis Vassilis and at the same time I feel a great euphoria and satisfaction because this leading servant of art, culture and letters belongs to and gives his battle - and at this time at 23.00 hours in the evening - through the ranks of the Radical Left Coalition - a Progressive Alliance, giving a lesson not only to Parliament, but also to the country's political world about the prospect and attitude of people at these difficult times. At the same time, however, I also feel an outrage when it evolves from yesterday, the day before yesterday, this sad intervention of the address of a historical newspaper to censor and finally force a leading independent journalist to resign, Mrs Elena Akrita, because she dared in her column every week rather than in a letter she sent as a reader, to express her opinion. The periods are critical. We know very well what pandemic means, what the threat of war tensions means, what the economic crisis means, but when democracy and civilisation are so severely affected here, the ghosts, ladies and gentlemen, are getting out, and we must rise up and rise. It is not possible for Mr Marinakis, Mr Papachristos and anyone else to offend the Greek democracy and the tradition of this place in such a way. And it cannot stay in the edge of any party and any newspaper and no social, political and human conscience. And it has nothing to do with the fact that Mrs Helena Akrita's text judged misery against the President of SYRIZA, Alexis Tsipras. She's over that. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a duty, because I have this responsibility for the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, the responsibility for defence, to speak mainly about it. I would ask you, Mr President, to have your tolerance because this is a crucial issue and all the parties in this period, in this year's budget, must stand as much as possible with great responsibility in these matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u432	For a minute, two minutes, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u433	I heard the Minister, Mr. Psulakakis, when he spoke and honestly I tell you I was moved. His word had been charged when he said that the responsibility raised by government ministers and I felt to communicate with it is very heavy. And at the same time, after the second word, he disappointed me. Here, aggression about how much SYRIZA's responsibilities are for all of this. Ladies and gentlemen, the government fails its own objectives. It doesn't fail to eliminate the coronary and he doesn't understand anything. It reminds me of this unfortunate guy in an old creepy joke, falling from the inch of a giant skyscraper and when he had arrived on the fifty-fourth floor he said to himself: "At this point we are going well." That's what this government reminds me of. And that's why it's SYRIZA, who from the first moment and a week, ten days before the Mitsotakis Government in February, we at the party's political secretariat meeting in Koumoundourou, with a recommendation from Alexis Tsipras, said we "stop everything" and recommended to the Youth Office, which was ready in the next few days to make its international conference make a decision not to do so, to cancel it. And indeed the young comrades met, understood social responsibility and did so, one week before the lockdown took place. Leave Paul and the Blonde who immediately went to the Minister of Health and said to him "at your disposal all our experience and knowledge." We don't want a single man to be lost if he can be saved. We are all in favour of it. Solidarity and solidarity networks are already developed on the side of SYRIZA throughout Greece, in all branches, in all clubs, everywhere, especially for the coronary. And I'm going right to the issues of the Armed Forces. Again, Mr Skakakis rightly said that the issue - for another reason he said it - is not the money, but whether they get a place, what efficiency they have, how they serve the purpose. In this defence, a thousand per cent is valid, because the needs of the defence are huge and endless and international competition are so acute and continuous that give rise to new ones. Leave the armour diplomacy. Leave the pressures on huge bands and states to sell weapons. Leave it or the other one. But this is already a huge issue, and just as SYRIZA has stood up to the historic path of all the parties towards the issue of armaments and defence armaments in the country - and I will explain to you what I mean - we have seen again with arbitrary imprisonment Mr. Lebanese, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, this morning to call on the Parliamentary Representative, Euklidis Tsakalotos, to see an interrogation officer from the royal consortium and to say to him: 'You will vote for the equipment or not?', as if these are whipping issues, are cheap policy issues. If it is possible to talk about such important issues. Listen. The left was never and will never be either a warship nor a nationalist, but it is precisely that it will defend its love for peace and progress in the country in one world and it will constantly seek not to hate the homelands of others, but to try to resolve all issues without war, only when they come to conquer our country and precisely by breaking all these nationalisms and the competitions that are now happening, too. That is why, since 2014, in our programming declarations and in visits twice Alexis Tsipras, then, before taking over a government, the Ministry of National Defence and then military leadership said to them - and so far was the continuous line - that within the context of the budgetary crisis we put priority and backs and that is why we will endeavour at all costs to modernise the weapons systems, to maintain, to supply the necessary ammunition, to take care of the fuel, to take care of the spare parts, to upgrade the existing weapon system, which was still in operation, not because it is not good systems, but because all governments - and the New Democracy and the PASOK - have never dared to ask for any supply contract to be accompanied by the contract itself and by provision for upgrading, maintenance and all that is relevant, indeed for the ammunition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u434	Finish it, Mr. Dritsa. Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u435	I shall finish, Mr President. In this direction we then accepted, in 2014, the open praises of the then military leadership and followed the whole route and thus went as a government. And today Mr Panagiotopoulos came and told us about a series of weapon systems that are being upgraded. The F-16 had left it ready and it's been a year and a half, and only one has already left to start its repair and upgrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u436	Mr. Dritsa, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u437	I shall finish, Mr President, in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u438	That's what you keep telling me. Don't embarrass me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u439	He didn't talk at all about the Mirages, which everyone was saying is the super-array against the Turks, because the Turks don't have Miraz and they don't know their technology. They have F-16. He didn't talk about the torpedoes, which were our work and implied Mr. Panagiotopoulos this morning...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u440	Mr. Dritsa, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u441	Let me go, Mr. President. I need to take a stand on behalf of Officer Opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u442	No, it's not like you call it. It's a budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u443	I'm done. I'll do everything I can to finish as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u444	Now you'll finish it. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please don't yell underneath.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u445	In this respect, then, we want hierarchies. Fifteen days ago in the Committee on Equipment and Contracts, I asked SYRIZA, on behalf of the Minister of State until the budget, this 2,5 budget, possibly along with something, could reach 3 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u446	Turn it off, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u447	I am done, Mr President, with this. ...to give us detailed information confidential to all parties that will be distributed within 2021 and with what perspective from 2022 onwards. [[Noise in the Chamber]] He told us 'yes'. All parties' representatives are witnesses. He didn't do it today and he came to tell us about all this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u448	Thank you very much, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u449	Mr President, the conclusion is that we want to explain all of this, we want to strengthen the defence of the Armed Forces, their deterrent power.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u450	You're not closing it, Mr. Dragon.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u451	We know there's a need for equipment too. But we know that the freshmen...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u452	Mr. Dritsa, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u453	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u454	But you're ironing me now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u455	I'm done with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u456	You said that four times.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u457	...no one of the Navy General Staff questioned what specifications Greece needs and not go out on the streets, what transactions we're going to do with every state.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u458	Mr. Drizza...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u459	I'm done. With this very serious and responsible attitude, we do not want to say 'no', but we want to have a very serious debate - I'm done -...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u460	But you're not done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u461	We want to have a very serious conversation to know what Mr. Skulakakis says not enough money, but if they catch a place and serve real purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u462	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u463	Ministers passed, MPs passed... I don't have the right to speak five more minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u464	Seven, Mr. Dritsa, please. Listen to me for a minute, please, with all due respect. I have agreed to take a second shift so that as many colleagues as possible can speak. If we do that, some colleagues won't talk tomorrow. If I wasn't here now, you wouldn't talk. Respect a little. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u465	I'm going to be a lacquer, probably because of origin. I won't say much about the defense. As you know, the money they went in for equipment is specific and we all know it, and I have no reason to make special references. There's no need. But, God, all that you told us about nationalism was being served by Mr. Kammens at the Ministry of National Defence?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u466	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u467	All right, let's get a sense of what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u468	Mr. Drizza, he didn't interrupt you, though. He was listening to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u469	Mr President, protect Parliament. We're talking about defense.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u470	Please, Mr. Dritsa. Mr. Skourletis is here. If Mr. Skourletis wants to speak. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u471	Just because we are talking about defence and because SYRIZA had entrusted Mr. Kammenos with this work, I record it to remember it, because we have not all suffered lobotomy in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u472	Mrs Stergianis Biziou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u473	Thank you, Mr President. Let us not comment and let us limit ourselves to the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting today on the second budget of our Government. There is no doubt that it is a budget that we will be discussing for years, as this is the first and we wish the last health crisis budget. The 2021 budget has to deal with an unprecedented unstable factor. The koroni pandemic has affected global economic activity since its first event at the beginning of 2020. The euro area, the euro economy and the Greek economy are, of course, not an exception. The pandemic has overturned the 2020 plans and we are now called on to redesign the future. The outbreak of the coronary has been and continues to be a challenge for our economy and the living standards of the citizens. Since the start of the health crisis it has been vital for us to protect, not only the critical sectors of the economy, but also the assets, technology and infrastructure of the country and, most importantly, to protect jobs and workers. Despite the extremely unfavourable conditions, our Government has chosen to move to development and we have remained faithful to the programme for which the Greek people have chosen us to implement and consistently in our reform planning. We have implemented, without oligopoly, fundamental reforms that improve public administration, education, health, the energy market, the digital agenda and the utilization of public property. The recovery in 2021 will be based on the creation of new jobs and the reduction of tax and insurance burden. Following last year's budget, we are presenting, despite adversity, a budget for developmental, pro-investment, with the main aim of improving the standard of living of the Greeks. In this respect, we adopted the reduction in the insurance contributions of employers and employees in the private sector by three units. The abolition of the solidarity levy for private sector employees, incomes, professionals and farmers. The application of the new tax scale for freelance professionals, which leads to a reduction of at least EUR 1,300 for the vast majority of self-employed persons. Adopt the measure of overestimates for digital and green fixed capital investments. The extension of the time limit for payment of any tax and insurance debts for those affected by the coronary. The extension of the application of a reduced rate of VAT to tourism, catering, transport and spectacle. Undoubtedly, the results of these designs are not independent of the development of the pandemic. Vaccineation and the speed at which it will take place will affect developments and the schedule of recovery. Here, let us not forget that Greece will receive 12 and a half million pieces of vaccine, a number capable of covering its population in full. Also, the cost of vaccination will be zero for all Greek citizens. The first period of 2021 will be difficult. But there is provision for that too. The budget has significant cash reserves to support the real economy for the period up to the return to normality. We have already made EUR 24 billion available and still EUR 7 billion have been planned for the next period. The financing will, however, receive the national recovery plan and European funds, with a budget of EUR 72 billion, to be used for the green economy, support for labour, social and educational structures, support for private investment and digitisation of the state and the economy. The most important thing, however, in this unprecedented situation we are experiencing is not the numbers, it is the prospect, it is the message of optimism, of strength, of endurance. Greece has endured and has the opportunity, the prospect of winning the "game". In spite of the adversities that we faced in the year and a half of our governance, Greece managed to re-establish itself on the planet as a reliable country as an example of management. The country has entered the map of the world economy as an investment magnet for colossal companies. Greece has returned to markets with low borrowing costs. We see investment interest in almost all sectors of the economy. It has started a tax policy to alleviate households and businesses, and we are creating a stable supportive framework every day for the business. At the same time, Greek bond prices move at historically low levels. The rating house "MODY'S" upgraded Greece's merit by one grade and we are now very little from the investment grade. One can only agree that these are the best vote of confidence in the Greek Government's ability to deal with the health crisis, but also to plan the next day of growth. It is the proof that this government is working on an economic recovery and reform programme, with a view to protecting the economy from the shock caused by the coronary. We are working to achieve a recovery for all citizens, inclusive. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to vote in favour of our Government's budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u474	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bisew. We won two minutes because of Mrs. Bisew, Mr. Dritsa. You should know that. Mr. Xanthopoulos Theophilus has the floor from SYRIZA and then Mrs. Papadimitriou. Mr. Blondopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u475	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It is a budget that has the special characteristics of developing in the midst of a pandemic. As MP Dramas, who has suffered the "marmaged" of this curse with a hundred and thirty-six dead in eighty days now, you understand that it is of particular importance to refer to my fellow citizens, who we all have, to the problems we have, to the losses we have, because for us it is not a statistical size, they are the people on the next door, they are the classmates, friends, neighbors. I want to say to everyone: patience, respect for measures, discipline, solidarity. The storm will pass and we will share political responsibilities with those concerned. Today, however, attention to the extreme point. One point which the pandemic gives us, which I think is inconceivable, is the importance of national health systems. Neoliberal beliefs have collapsed that this is inefficient and that the private sector can do better with less resources. We all know, therefore, that the existence of a national health system is sufficiently staffed and well funded. What are you doing in this part of the "marmaged" that exists in the country? We are last in the European Union in the field of strengthening the National Health System. In both pandemic and economy you have failed, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. What does 2020 leave us? The third quarter of the recession of 11.7%, the largest in the European Union. In the medium-term, rather than 10.5%, perhaps the largest in the European Union. Thirdly, a higher reduction in workers' incomes in the European Union, 2.5 billion new debts during the pandemic. Reduction of business turnover by 60%. In all this, what is the New Democracy's response to small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and middle-class? The answer is the new bankruptcy and the speeding up of the procedures of the Katseli - Stathakis Act. In other words, the middle-class in "canavacco", natural persons are bankrupt and at risk of losing their homes as well. The protection of first residence no longer applies. What are you telling us about 2021? The growth of 4.8%, while we have around 10% average recession, therefore, at 50% the replacement of losses. The OECD says 0.9%, but for the economy of the debate I accept your view. So that is the outline of the budget. The year when it comes to the accounts and the year when it comes to the budget. As the Head of Justice, however, I would like to devote the rest of my speech to the questions of justice and the functioning of the Ministry of Justice, as Mr Tsiaras, the Minister, has developed them, and to make the other proposal known. It remains, first of all, the Ministry's own budget, about 510 million, and of course the entire budget has increased. Therefore, the budget is declining percentage. The benefits for workers are reduced by 4.2 million, of which 1.2 million, or almost half, are directed towards the AIA, the principle of confidentiality of communications. It's unexplainable and has to explain. One more. The General Secretariat of Crime Policy, which was transferred to the Civil Protection Service, also shows a reduced budget. Its function is of major importance, because this secretariat essentially has to manage a large number of detainees, penitentiaries, detention stores, and we really have a lot of questions to ask about the reason why this provision is being reduced, this budget. The ADI budget, which relates to the protection of personal data, is also reduced by 300,000 euros. In fact, I want to make a few other remarks. We had left an integrated digital judicial management system, which is stuck. Today I heard the Minister say what he will do. Let him ask the lawyers of the Athens Court of First Instance how long they are getting their certificates. Actually, he's not making any hires at all. He talked about the thirty-five seats of the judges, but he doesn't speak of recruiting judges at all. We know the very large gaps we have in the support of the judges, and that is why he has not said a word. I would like to say, however, some other things that are directly related to what we call the Ministry of Justice and, in particular, the functioning of justice in the country. The Ministry of Justice is responsible for the immunity procedure it has provided to the bank executives. He made the favorable arrangements so that those accused of money laundering, after eighteen months, would return their seized properties. He voted for Law 4725 and the new bankruptcy, which will essentially form the embryonic in order to transfer a large part of the private property to funds and bankers. There is no civil protection of minors and children who are victims of crime. And to finish with human rights, today we read Mr Indarre's statement that elements are being built on the part of the ELS to support the arguments of the terrorist partner. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, this V promised us by the government, that as long as there is so much recovery we will have, there is no. It's not true. On the other hand, this V marks 'Vae Victis', which means 'No losers'. And the loser is the big social majority of the country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u476	I had no doubt you'd escape. Mrs Anna Mani - Papadimitriou from New Democracy has the floor. Happy birthday for her nominal holiday on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u477	Mr President, thank you very much for your wishes. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget for 2021 is being tabled under the unprecedented conditions experienced by our country and all mankind because of the pandemic. Personally, having experienced the coronary disease, an uneasy, rather difficult adventure for me, which lasted long enough and thanking God has passed over, I would like this Step to appeal to all Greeks, as well as to all my compatriots in Pieria. Protect yourself, your loved ones, as well as the whole society. Stay at home. Stay safe. Avoid unnecessary movements. Follow me with gratitude the suggestions of scientists and state. The coronary is not a simple virion. It's not just a flu. It's a deadly invisible threat that at best exhausts you and terrifies you with fear of getting out alive. So let us unite all our forces so that this great test will soon have a happy ending. We owe it to ourselves, to our neighbor, but we owe it to our country too. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government, along with the protection of human life and the preservation of public health, has taken care to keep the economy alive in the midst of the pandemic, spreading a network of protection to the citizens and businesses affected by the measures and the health crisis. Through a package of sixty-two interventions we distributed EUR 24 billion in 2020 to support those who suffered the financial consequences of the pandemic. As I come from a rural county, in Pieria, I must point out some of the measures taken during the pandemic to support the rural world. In particular: The solution given to land workers and their insurance with a bachelorship. The possibility for the first time for people receiving unemployment benefit can be employed in agricultural work without losing the allowance. The extension to the payment of ELGA’s insurance contributions. The suspension of the trade fee. The speeding up of payments by the ELGA and OPEKEAP in the midst of the health crisis. EUR 30 million for the reinforcement of the ELGA. In particular, the integration of farmers into the repayable advance, a measure which has literally supported our farmers. And that's just the beginning. As the Minister responsible has announced, the government in the next two years will implement, with targeted action, a programme for the reconstruction and further strengthening of the agricultural sector. We support our farmers, producers, farmers and fishermen, with deeds and not words. We support the Greek region, which is where the heart of Greece strikes. It is certain and also results from the constant day-to-day communications we have with the relevant ministers that similar support will have other economic sectors that have been affected, always within the framework of the practicable one. In addition, however, during the pandemic, the government continued to carry out its reform work, as well as its pre-election commitment to reducing tax and insurance burdens. Indicatively, we've reduced HISPHIA. We reduced the tax rate for natural persons from 22% to 9% and companies from 28% to 24%. We've reduced insurance contributions. We suspended VAT on new buildings. We've increased the tax free for every child. And, of course, the list follows on from this, which is being acted through the 2021 budget, which is well balanced on the thin line of economic support, but always reasoned, so that there is no risk of fiscal derailment. In particular, there is no new tax in the budget, no new tax burden. On the contrary, all tax and insurance reductions are maintained and new ones are still foreseen. The main of these are, for example, the suspension of the solidarity levy. The reduction by three percentage points of insurance contributions. Coverage of insurance contributions for each new intake in order to create 100 thousand new jobs. The grant of loans for the first residence through the GFCF programme for the affected borrowers. Nevertheless, the Qualified Opposition accuses us of social analgesia and neoliberal obsession. Ladies and gentlemen, it is at least oxymobile for SYRIZA to talk about economy. Those who would hit the bullies and dance in Europe's economies. Those who, thanks to their proud negotiation, closed the banks. Those who bleeding with the overtaxation of the middle class and cut pensions and CSCE. Those who promised our country, the honors of our country, even our antiquities, at the supreme for ninety years, and even without facing a global uncontrolled and uncontrolled crisis like the present pandemic. In SYRIZA's hypocrisy and populism, New Democracy responds with sincerity, wisdom, plan and methodicity, with a specific plan that will not derail the country financially. The government will continue its reform work in 2021, which has already begun to bear fruit. Proof is the lowest loan interest rate, but in particular the attraction of significant investments, such as investments of MICROSOT, VOLKSWAGEN, PFIZER, CISCO, DELOITTE, but others are only the principle of investment mobility that will carry many quality jobs, but above all they will bring back to our place the young people who have left abroad, as has already begun to be seen from the continuous contacts of the Prime Minister with the above companies with the last one this afternoon by teleconference. Be sure, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, a true leader, will successfully lead our country through the difficulties and the fragility of the pandemic and restore it to orbit by ensuring all Greek welfare conditions. In support of all this, I will reiterate the statement by a fellow Greek of ours from Thessaloniki, a protagonist of the days, who gave hope to all mankind. I am referring to the head of "PFIZER", Mr Albert Burla, who said a few days ago: "You now feel welcome to come and invest in Greece". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u478	Thank you, Mrs Papadimitriou, and respect for the time. Now Mr. Harris Mamulakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u479	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our country, as we all know, is going through a constant day-to-day national tragedy, an entire village is being devastated every day. So having reached this bad and particularly difficult health position, and not only, it is a good idea to remember in such a way that this can be avoided in the future, if possible with the present government. All of us, therefore, came back on the spring that passed us at the first glimpse and with the happy juncture before the rest of Europe and later on in our country, a wave of pandemic. "We bought time", valuable time to shield the health system and to enable all of us in the emerging and long-awaited second wave to stand up to the circumstances, to "buy time" to shield the health system so that we can strengthen it with personal advances in time and substance. Sadly, the government stayed in the laurels of summer: Comiency, inertia, structural uncertainty brought us to the present point. And not only that, but the health problem has been triggered and further because of the many and characteristics - three, I will only mention - examples that all of us, and the last Greek citizen, have been drawn to the subconscious that there is a very clear responsibility: "Sardinisation" in public transport, opened - closed in schools with masks, and most of all I think that what I mentioned before, despite all the valuable time, was inertial in the most important issue concerning the country, which was the strengthening and shielding of public health. So we're here. Is there a political responsibility, Mr. Dog and gentlemen of the government? There is enormous political responsibility. And the worst thing is that there is, the worst is that you don't take it and you're hiding behind communal "tarajoum" and double recording systems that have been working with the press in the last few days. But let me come to the issue of the budget which is the top parliamentary procedure on an annual basis and especially this year where it coincides with our pandemic crisis. The budget we are called upon to discuss today's budget comes from another time, from a 30-year period in which the main aim of budgetary policy was to cut expenditure and to stabilise public deficits. The current budget in 2021, in other words, is an austerity budget and is shaped as such at a time when in the rest of Europe budgets are aggressive, produce unprecedented deficits and enter with the blessings of international organisations on the front line to contain the recession through the expansion of the state's regulatory role and the expansion of the welfare state. The European Union, with its delays and problems, has understood the change, for example. The Recovery Fund is more than just a personal achievement by Mr Mitsotakis, who presents it to the media government. The European edifice, ladies and gentlemen, was built in the 1990s after two German rules: firstly, the European Central Bank does not lend to the Member States. Secondly, the European Union, as a collective subject, is not borrowing on behalf of its members. The first rule collapsed at the juncture of the 2008 crisis. It collapsed, but the cost of the collapse was paid by our country with the two inappropriately punishable budgetary adjustment programmes. The second rule is falling apart today. The Recovery Fund is to confirm the positions of progressive economists who have for decades criticised the irrationality of a single market in which the risk of exposure to financial markets is not shared. The Recovery Fund is a moment when the economic orthodox in Europe has been overcome for four decades. But what are you doing with the Recovery Fund? You use it as an opportunity to speed up all those policies and all the ghosts of the era of neoliberalism and the time of the memorials. In today's budget the Recovery Fund operates as a forgiveness of austerity. Let us, for example, take public projects and the Public Investment Programme. The PPP has increased from the previous government to 6.75 billion. Today's budget describes the expenditure of the EIP 6.75 billion, without any euros for growth and yet with little peculiarity. In 2019, due to the management of the State budget, only five billion were used in the second half. The up-to-date forecast that 4.8% growth will be achieved is based on the absorption of these 6.75 billion and the additional 3 billion, which you are supposed to be able to absorb from the Recovery Fund. But the problem with the extra resources that our country has to manage is that, unlike previous times, we had many projects but little money, at the time of the fund, Greece has a lot of money, but few mature projects. They're a few works as you didn't mature anything, he didn't claim anything unless there was a friend contractor. But there are few projects, because the weak administration of our country, which you today with the budget do not support, is unable to achieve to the necessary level and pace. What is the government's response to these problems? To design most of the projects of the Recovery Fund as PPP projects. Moreover, Mr Karamanlis has announced that he intends to bring us a PPP law, beyond and outside the limits and conventions laid down by European law after Christmas. In this way and in violation of the European framework, I stress this, the government intends to avoid all predictions of transparency about the tenders in large projects. The juncture of the Recovery Fund and the new crisis our country faces is the moment for a budget expansionist, a budget that, assisted by the resources of the Recovery Fund, would emphasise the public works that would shield our country from the consequences of climate change. Today was the time for a budget that would make a wider public champion in the productive transformation of the Greek economy. And of course today would be the time for a budget that would use the area of the Recovery Fund to keep our small and medium-sized enterprises alive and not a click away from the closure. What is reflected in today's budget is unthinkable. Our country will continue even through the local lockdown - and I hope - to live in an exception scheme at least until summer. And the government was not very concerned about making sure in the budget that the management of local lockdowns would also require exceptional aid for businesses and workers in many of the regions that close down. In closing, ladies and gentlemen of the government, today's budget and planning regarding the management of the recovery fund reflect your indifference to small and medium-sized enterprises in our country. The economic and technocratic elites in our country for decades have shaped the view that the country's problem is the multitude and dynamic of small and medium-sized enterprises. The current budget through the "business as usual" in the middle of unprecedented conditions in the economy today seems capable of implementing this nightmare, a nightmare that is also reflected in the Pissaridis project, which is supposed to be a significant indicator of your proposal for the management of the Rehabilitation Fund. For all these reasons, the Qualified Opposition will obviously and will vote against this budget, this Ghost Budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u480	Thank you very much, Mr Mamulaki. And I will give the floor to Castorian, Mr. Zesi Jekalaya from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u481	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the 2021 budget drawn up by the Government and the Ministry of Finance after a year which had as its main features an unexpected major health crisis, a constant pressure on our eastern borders by Turkey which forces the Armed Forces and the Security Body to be on constant guard and the incredible natural disasters we had this year with the floods, earthquakes and fires. Our priorities were, and will continue to be, first and foremost, life and health, and immediately thereafter the economy. And there we will focus on policy-makers specializing in businesses, workers, the unemployed, the vulnerable social groups, the primary sector, tourism, sport, culture. In 2020 we spent over 31 billion as measures to deal with the crisis. Our prediction is that in 2021 the Gross National Income will rise by 4.8%, planning to have more than 6 billion from the Public Investment Program. A special feature in our budget, in our economy, is that tourism participates as a larger percentage than other countries in the total Gross National Product. Our aim is always to raise the per capita Gross National Product so that we are progressively converging with the average of the European Union. This is achieved on the one hand by increasing employment, on the other, by improving productivity and performance of labour by placing on innovation, digital transformation, upgrading infrastructure, supporting the region. Public debt is large, over 340 billion, almost 200% of gross national product. But we are forecast to have a 9.3% reduction compared with 2020. Our government with a lot of work, with organization, is responsible for ensuring that there is cash available so that there is no Greek citizen uncovered. And in our policy we are taking measures permanently in taxation with a reduction in taxation - and not to mention in detail - for HICPIA, for tax rates, for the abolition of VAT on buildings. I will say more about non-permanent tax reductions, such as a reduction in the tax advance payment of employers' and workers' insurance contributions in seasonal work by offsetting short-term VAT payments with future tax obligations, with reductions in regulated tax and insurance debts. It's a reward for the consistent. The main feature of the 2021 budget is that no new taxes will be introduced. On the contrary, we are suspending the special solidarity levy. It is more than EUR 760 million budget costs, with the benefit of private sector employees, free professionals, farmers. We are moving on to the reduction of three insurance units that will help the private sector greatly, and the cost will be over EUR 800 million. We are also motivating the repatriation of scientists and young people who are abroad or the transfer of tax residence, with a smuggling of fuel, alcohol and tobacco. Furthermore, with regard to social welfare, we are moving towards social benefits of EUR 600 million. We finally introduce the allowance as a real heating allowance. So far it has been an oil bonus. We give special purpose compensation to low-wages. We extend and extend unemployment benefits. We are giving exceptional financial support to 30 000 long-term unemployed, to help overcome the inheritability. We give emergency aid to over four hundred eighty thousand people with the minimum guaranteed income. And we took care of and created 100 thousand new jobs, subsidising the insurance contributions together with 200 euros for the recruitment of unemployed for six months. The cost is over 300 euros. And with the "GEVYRA" programme, we rewarded the consistent first home borrowers. In the tertiary sector either by extensions for the payment of ELGA contributions or by speeding up ELGA and OPEKEPE payments, all productive SARs have been compensated, accelerated procedures for the activation of financial instruments for investment projects and processing have been accelerated. This is the first time that it has come to the Greek Parliament with an environmental dimension. And this results from the care for the start of the aid for electromobility with "Security", with liberation. There have been too many recruitments in education. They're going to be more in 2021. Ninety thousand portable devices were given to schools. In the National Defence from 3.8 billion, the budget is increased to 5.5 billion, as is necessary. For my constituency in Kastoria, state aid was significant at EUR 49 million either by direct support for workers or by special support to businesses, with the returnable payments that have come to enough money and brought liquidity, with TPAX II and the COVID Business Guarantee Fund -19. We are satisfied in my region because they will go on this year and gas networks will be completed in 2023. We're satisfied because the Kleissoura tunnel will start and end in two to three years. It is a project that will upgrade the strategic design we have for Kastoria's western airport, which combined with the opening of the border crossing of the prespecies neck that we want to make, we will have an overall upgrading of the area. That is why it is necessary to start the airport upgrading projects, such as the fuel supply station and others that are required. I have brought to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection the issue of the Kastoria lake, and the government must help further consolidation. We have asked the government - and I believe we will have its help - in terms of tourism in the promotion and promotion of our tourism product. We want to pull off the Nestorian dam that is really a big development project and we believe that we are not far from restarting. The fur has always been and continues to be a pillar for our local economy. We need these steps we are taking. The fur farms have played and will continue to play a decisive role and we want them to. And I shall continue, Mr President, with the RDP, the draft of a fair development transition to Western Macedonia. And I have to testify that for my area, for Castoria and Grevenas it's not that fair. Yes, we have the assurances that the imbalance will be covered by aid from national funds or from regional, operational programmes, but this will be the final target, that is, in 2027. We want it to exist at the beginning, too. Because if there is a 'desavantage', a 'handicap' at the start in 2021-2022, we'll stay back and have deinvestment. But we are sure that our strong government, under the guidance of our Prime Minister, will do what it needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u482	Thank you, Mr. Jekalaya. We'll hang up with Mrs. Anna Karamanlis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u483	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, once a great leader of history, Annivas, said "Whether we will find him or fix him." The 2021 budget is the way the government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis are making, so that we can end a painful route and put an end to the economic consequences of an unprecedented health crisis. The budget was drawn up at a time when societies and the global economy are being placed, both in health and economic terms, because of the pandemic. As a result, we have had the worst global recession since the end of World War II. We would expect from our SYRIZA colleagues - although I see only Mr Skourletis, they have left you alone - not to insist on distorting the reality of creating impressions, not to sow the division in your friendly tactics, but to be able to stand up to the level of circumstances, at a time when the need for complicating forces is more imperative than ever. But we have the overwhelming majority of Greek citizens at our side. The government's economic policy has kept society up all these months of pandemic, with significant interventions, both in support of enterprises with a reduction in revenue due to the crisis and our proven intention to support workers in the affected sectors, with special attention being paid to seasonal workers. The Government also made interventions aimed at supporting free professionals, self-employed, farmers, borrowers and the unemployed, supporting key sectors of the Greek economy, such as tourism, food, air transport, coastal transport, land transport and, of course, support for the National Health System and for the first-line workers, people who, with self-sufficientness and self-determination, give the toughest fight to defend all human life. The 2021 budget has, without doubt, development and investment bases, because it provides for a reduction in income tax on legal persons, a reduction in the distributed profits, a reduction in insurance contributions, a suspension of VAT on new building, a substantial tax incentive to investment in the green economy, digitisation, energy, new investment firms and expenditure on scientific and technological research. At the same time, the budget has a clear social person, because it provides for a reduction in taxes on natural persons to 9%, a reduction in HISPI, care for outstanding pensions and, of course, no new tax. The Government of New Democracy has arranged to provide an additional EUR 600 million for the OPEKA to support vulnerable social groups. I am one of those who walk in the neighborhoods of southern Athens, in markets that until first had flown from life to central markets, such as the one of Callithea, the Palaio Faliro, the Glyfada, the painter, the Alimos. Small and medium-sized enterprises give life to local communities. I've talked to shopkeepers, people who are struggling to survive, who are struggling to keep their shops open. These shops are a meeting place for residents, they are familiar points, they are reference centres for neighborhoods. These people, the New Democracy Government, did not leave them, leave them and will not let them get lost. The budget provides for support for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and workers in practice. It provides for a reduction of 3 percentage points in the insurance contributions of private sector employees and 3,9 points in the cumulative amount. It provides for the suspension of the solidarity levy in the private sector. With these only two, it will improve the income of workers and businesses by EUR 1.383 billion. It concerns two hundred and sixty thousand and one million nine hundred eighty thousand employees. You are accusing us of social analgesia, colleagues of SYRIZA. I would remind you, in addition to what my colleague, Ms Mani, said about the abolition of the CSCE, that you increased VAT on the focus, you made more than twenty-two reductions in pensions. Mr. Juliarakis at the Senate Hall said it was a conscious choice for the government to exaggerate the middle class and the free traders. And you move the finger that we're experiencing an unprecedented health crisis and we're giving a day-to-day struggle! But even now, within your well-known ideological obsessions, you have not voted for the programme for the hundreds of thousands of new jobs, the reduction of contributions, or the abolition of the ENPI on the small remote islands. This New Democracy Government has demonstrated its duty towards this unprecedented health and economic crisis with global dimensions. The 2021 budget shows the importance of the presence of a serious government, which sets realistic targets, has a strategy and, above all, has a political will. At the moment, with a government in New Democracy, Greece is from the European Union countries with the lowest number of lost jobs during the pandemic. In addition, the European Commission predicts that our country will achieve the second largest reduction in the unemployment rate in 2021, among the Member States. In the health sector, the New Democracy Government ensures an amount of EUR 4,829 billion with the commitment to spend all the money it needs on health in 2021. Let me remind SYRIZA here that the amount spent in 2018 on their government was EUR 3,849 billion, that is, EUR 1 billion less than the Samara Government in 2014. I have also heard, ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the Officerial Response in their speeches keep on saying whether, if, "if it were us government," "if we were to manage this crisis," if anything. The "if" many times you sowed, but never spurned, as the hero Kolokotronis said, and in any case you were government, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response, and in crises you were called upon to face, you faced them as an early schoolchildren and not as a serious political force. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Only in life, as in politics, there are no classes for beginners. The difficulties arise at all times, even from the first moment. If you're capable, you face them. If you're not, you're oppositioning. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving towards the end of this pandemic nightmare. We will only get rid of it when vaccination covers a large part of the population. Already a thousand eighteen vaccination centres are being prepared, as well as sixty-five movable units of the EGE for vaccination in the hospitality units of the elderly. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing a health crisis with economic consequences. We can do it effectively, with dynamism and, in any case, with a sense of responsibility towards a people who, despite what has been through, did not fall. So this people, Mr. Mitsotakis, will not let him down because he is the Prime Minister of all the Greeks. I therefore call on you all to vote together in favour of this budget, which has a social, developmental, pro-investment and reformist character. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u484	Thank you, Mr. Karamanlis. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-13-S1-commons.u485	With the consent of the House at 23.59' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Monday, December 14, 2020 at 9.30', on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, continuation of the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring the State Budget for the year 2021", according to the agenda distributed.
