ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] The meeting's on. I'm starting with an announcement. The Standing Committee on Social Affairs and the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs present their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Consolidation on the protection of public health against the consequences of the CIVID pandemic, strengthening public transport, speeding up the award of pensions, regulating debts to local authorities and other urgent provisions". We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: 'Consolidation on the protection of public health against the consequences of the CIVID pandemic -19, strengthening public transport, speeding up the award of pensions, regulating debts to local authorities and other urgent provisions'. The above bill, following the decision of the Co-Chaired Committees on Social Affairs and Economic Affairs, on a proposal from the relevant Minister, is being discussed in accordance with Rule 76(4) of the Constitution and Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this House, the debate and the vote of the urgent drafts are being concluded at a maximum of ten hours. During the urgent procedure, the rapporteurs and special speakers, the Prime Minister or the Minister responsible, the Presidents of the parliamentary groups and one of their representatives are involved in the debate. Their speech is limited to half the time provided for in Rules 97 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. I propose, in parliamentary practice, that the debate on the principle and the articles be uniform. I also propose, after a decision of the Conference of Presidents on 16 December 2020, that the list of speakers be extended - this is done by way of derogation from the urgent drafts - as follows: there should be an additional six-speaking circle, in addition to the rapporteurs and speakers, one of each parliamentary group, which will be physically present and two further circles of speakers to be added to the debate by means of a teleconference, through the 'WEBEX' platform. Each cycle will include twelve speakers, with the following analogy: Five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the JRC, one from the Greek Solution and one from the Mera25. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. With regard to speaking times, I propose that the rapporteurs and special speaker should have eight minutes of speaking time, the competent ministers ten minutes, any other ministers and Secretaries five minutes, the Prime Minister and the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, as well as the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, ten minutes, the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups eight minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives, six minutes, the speakers appointed by the parties five minutes. That is the proposal, as decided in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u3	Please, Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I think that the eight-minute time for a hundred sixty articles of fourteen ministries is not enough. We have tried for twelve minutes in the Committee on Social and Economic Affairs and we have seen that there was an extension. The majority speaker spoke eighteen minutes. So I think a year of fifteen minutes is reasonable.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u5	It can't be done, Mr. Papadopoulos. The procedure is for urgent procedure. What you're telling me, 15 minutes are in the regular bills. It's not even an emergency.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u6	The committees have spoken for twelve minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u7	I understand what you are saying to me, because I am not yesterday in the House, but in practical terms I cannot make such a decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u8	There is a tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u9	Anyway, because I'm not yesterday, let us get started. At least to the rapporteurs and to the special speakers and to the first circle of alternate colleagues, six, let me handle it here, without a decision, because I cannot take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u11	We're listening, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, first of all it is good that you realise that a bill of sixty articles, with a significant and critical contribution or not to dealing with the situation we are experiencing, cannot be discussed with these times. So I would like more time for everyone. If you make a reduction to the sixty articles in the time of the rapporteur or the parliamentary representative, you will see that the rapporteur has three seconds or thirty to be placed in each article and the parliamentary representative much less. It's not possible. To do at least that, to have a conversation. Otherwise there's no conversation at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u13	Let go, Mr. Kegeroglu. I'll handle it by interpreting the dime that the Rules of Procedure say. So I can make it for everyone - like everyone else - to make it. Leave it, we'll fix it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u15	Please, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u16	First of all, I am pleased that there is an understanding from you so that we can deal with the problem of time in the correct and fertile way. On that occasion, however, Mr President, there was a conciliation before the draft was tabled in relation to its content, namely to avoid a negative practical amendment to unrelated drafts and, on the basis of the fact that we are at the end of the year, to come a multi-legislative draft with various urgent provisions. This may apply to a large number of devices. It doesn't apply to others, though. From there on, this is a question of political criticism to discuss why the government is doing so. I would like you today to make a commitment: that you will protect the rest of the procedure so that there are no other amendments irrelevant to the nature of the bill. You realise that is necessary and necessary. The government has not respected it in several provisions. I hope that you, with your authority and your presence here, will press for this kind of commitment to be made. We cannot reach the parliamentary procedures as far as they are concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u17	Mr Skourletis, with regard to the second part, I will answer you, because as regards the first part, the broom bill, you know that it is a practice that - among us - thirty years that I am in Parliament - all the governments in the last bill do, either one way or another. Now, with regard to the amendments. You've been Minister. Did you ever ask the President-in-Office whether or not you would bring an amendment? This is a matter of the government's secretary with the ministers, not the President-in-Office. What can I tell you and how to commit? Make a commitment to you? I can't commit. I do not know if there are any other amendments. The Bureau has not been informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u18	Let the Minister tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u19	The Minister can commit himself to his Ministry. It cannot be committed to other ministers. Let's get started. I propose this: it is eight minutes and it is six speakers and rapporteurs. Let's agree that, instead of eight, I'll put 12 minutes. The twelve minutes, however, must be observed. I'm talking about the first six, which means we're going to get away by twenty-five minutes, but it's no other way. We agree that we shall start with the general rapporteurs and speakers, who will have twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u20	I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the work he has put into it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u21	Yes, all right, we'll take it in proportion, Mr. Kegeroglu. Here you go, Mr. Plori, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a bill which we discussed on Friday and the main criticism of whether or not these are urgent regulations, because otherwise - and I think it will appear in the course - I think that the vast majority of the provisions will be accepted, because they are provisions which are necessary and certainly urgent. And quite rightly, in our view, the government has chosen that a number of legislative regulations should be discussed in a bill, otherwise we would have had the phenomenon, especially at the end of the year, of having a bill and coming up with a number of amendments. The first fifty articles concern provisions of the Ministry of Health, which are almost all of which are an extension of the provisions already adopted by legislative acts or other laws. And I was surprised that there were Vice-Presidents who said Friday 'at last, you come to make these arrangements', without knowing that these arrangements have been voted on. Indeed, he has also been a Member since Mersey25, Mr Arsenis, who said that at last the government with Articles 6 and 7 has listened to him and has given him the procedure for granting non-approved indications of medicinal products, and in fact it is the provision that has been voted on since March and there is simply an extension. What, then, does the Ministry of Health come to do with a number of provisions that show the emergency character? We have extended to conditions of use of rapid molecular tests, to the recruitment of medical and nursing staff, to the granting of medicinal products other than authorised indications, to the procedure of dispatch of medicinal products to vulnerable groups, to the possibility of providing services at home and distance by ECHO doctors, to the possibility of recruiting medical and nursing staff, to the possibility of contracts for family doctors, to have fixed-term contracts with doctors, to the free supply of ethyl alcohol, to the possibility of converting simple beds or beds into IFOs into IFOs or to simple beds, both for state and private clinics, to the possibility of IFET supplies, to the possibility of EFO to entrust sample examination services to private individuals, to the process of re-issuing opinions, to the possibility of unstable fellow citizens suffering from renal insufficiency being able to rehabilitated in private structures and the acceptability of donated equipment. This is all about arrangements that have been voted on and very rightly extended until 31-3-2021 and most obviously the Ministry will assess on the basis of the conditions that exist if there is a need for further prolongation. Additional arrangements that come in the part concerning the Ministry of Health have to do with the possibility of carrying out free rapid test with the method, the principle, of the randomised epidemiological observation, which ensures the framework of those tests for the protection of personal data. There are some arrangements for daily care units, which in fact have to do with extensions in this direction, as well as the Union of Nursingers, and there are also a number of articles dealing with mental health problems again. Consequently, the provisions of the Ministry of Health as a whole are urgent and most of them have been passed at an earlier stage. This is a whole framework of operation of the Ministry of Health, which has managed within six to seven months of the start of the pandemic to double the IF beds, to more than double them, to have over a thousand three hundred IF beds, to have 25% more resources in the National Health System and, respectively, 10% more staff. In this way, at the end of the year and after the second wave - which has been under appalling pressure from the whole of Europe - we have now managed to obtain the treatment that our fellow citizens have to deal with COVID. In all this, therefore, these urgent arrangements are also being passed. Then we have provisions of the Ministry of Finance. As far as the provisions of the Ministry of Finance are concerned, I should like to mention the following: First of all, we have the lack of VAT for everything relating to vaccines and medical devices. There's been a review that won't be free. And the public when it buys, buys VAT when there are certain benefits. He's a buyer here in public, he's not a seller. It has therefore been said that the vaccine will be free of charge and only the VAT is removed from both the vaccines and the tests that are in place. A very important provision is the request of our fellow citizens of the blind, who are given tax relief and relief on the travel track to those with 80% and at the same time we also have a transfer of species related to this disability to 6%. It is a regulation that was necessary, it is urgent and certainly it relieves too many of our fellow citizens. Similarly, we have Article 64, which deals with the arrangements for those working at the ERT. Here it is in a consultation - I imagine that there will be a legislative improvement - because it only refers to those who were unlimited. Obviously, at the will is the time set. We're waiting for the government to be placed. I believe that this correction will be made. It is also very important to regulate Article 66, which provides for the possibility of subsidising newspapers in Greece. Here too, there is a concern to see whether there can be a corresponding arrangement for the provincial press as well, but here we see, and how, as well, a subject on tax and insurance information can be overcome and whether there can be overall support in all the newspapers. However, it is a set-up again for all the newspapers, which helps them to bear a part of the cost of transport involving the whole Greek press, showing in a clear way that it is the government's will to be affected by this crisis - which is also the entire Greek press - to be helped. A number of articles then deal with the Ministry of Development and Investment. Here there has been a two-level criticism from Opposition. First of all, for Article 71, with the national framework for the operating hours of shops. It is obvious - and this is also mentioned in the article - that, as far as there are consequences of COVID is concerned, it is very reasonable for the Minister to be able to regulate such an hour - on the basis of the possibilities - in which the market operates and to have the best means of protection. Was there also criticism of Article 72 that we are abolishing Sunday's holiday, which is a change in the decree with the addition of drugs - when? - during our peak at the moment of a pandemic phenomena. It is simply because they did not know the remote arrangements and had not been provided for by the legislator, what was actually the case for electronic orders to apply to those who are by remote control or telephone. Mainly considered the shop itself as a place where distribution takes place. Then we go to the provisions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, very important provisions. A number of regulations strengthen the structures of the EBRD, both in logistics and employees, and the possibility of transferring and using pensionable persons, in order to allow for the best possible liquidation of pensions. Indeed, with the regulations that this government has made, new pensions come out in a short time, but there were the previous pensions, which again had a problem of liquidation. And it comes to resolve this whole issue with the Ministry, and it is obviously urgent, unless you do not think it is urgent for our pensions to be quickly cleared up. Very important provision here is Article 90, which criminalizes, which creates a new criminal offence with reference to employers who take part in the special licence granted by COVID by workers. Because there are complaints that people have had smaller wages in the suspension regime and are being forced to transfer money back. A self-criminal offense is being created. In addition, there has also been a criticism in the part for the use of new technologies. Yes, it is mentioned as many conventions as are held and by decision of the same institution until 31 March. It is the urgent period, which cannot be seen as procedures until then. And when? If the institution itself decides to do so. Similarly, we have some provisions of the Ministry of Shipping, as well as of the Ministry of Tourism, which relate either to extensions or to further reinforcement of the people affected by the coronary pandemic, with reference to these Ministries. Very important are the arrangements of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, which in a clear way comes here and legislates the procedure, in order to remove all bureaucratic claws, which exist and to allow the competition, which is being conducted for the leasing of vehicles, to be completed as quickly as possible in order to further strengthen public transport. Accordingly, a number of issues are regulated for the smooth functioning of public transport in the middle of the pandemic and for the presence and reinforcement of staff and vehicles in them. Very important is the provision of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, Article 118, which stipulates that the grant given due to COVID to farmers is not confiscated or taxed. And that is urgent, because we have heard it say whether or not we have urgent arrangements. The farmers who are listening to us at the moment know that the money they receive for aid is not confiscated or taxed. They wait for this regulation and they would not wait a month for it to be voted on and, if necessary, for the money they have received to be seized. The provisions of the Ministry of Migration Policy are mainly interoperable on the issues of COVID, as was the case with the Ministry of Justice. It is actually the provisions for the smooth functioning of the courts and for the protection of all parties to the trials. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need a minute and I will finish. The last part has to do with the provisions of the Ministry of Interior, which are very important. With these provisions, the hundred and twenty doses are available to all our fellow citizens who owe the ATTs. All these arrangements are given with a corresponding reduction in the existing increments, which can reach between 60% and 100%. When these people get in control of a hundred and twenty doses, all forced execution measures are stopped at their expense. They have access and they can get tax and insurance information. This is really a great opportunity, as the Minister has told us here. Citizens owe the Otta 3 billion euros. It's a breath for the OTAs, a breath for the citizens as well. These are urgent arrangements, especially because they are being stopped by the enforcement process. At the same time, there is also the possibility for Ottas to have more staff to deal with all the issues of pandemic. Similarly, there are arrangements for strengthening artists and cultural people, which are given the opportunity to expand, as the government knows that these people are being most affected. With all these considerations, therefore, we are dealing with regulations that are urgent. There is one issue with Article 77, which we have discussed, namely the suspension of legal proceedings not only for the specific categories, but also for the people who are in the OAED. We expect the government to be placed in this as well. These are urgent arrangements, arrangements for dealing with pandemic, arrangements for alleviating our fellow citizens and the government is at the critical moment to discuss all of this. We are voting in favour of these provisions, which are for the benefit of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u24	We have had a number of problems over the reasons that led the government to submit urgently, with unbearable light, a multiplier of sixty articles, fourteen ministries. Following the debate in the Standing Committees on Social Affairs and Finance, we conclude that the Government wanted to avoid a general debate on a series of extensions and regulations, which could be dealt with in the normal parliamentary process of dialogue, hearing bodies, discussing alternative proposals and solutions proposed by Members of all the parties. He knew that in this normal process the debate would be extended to the causes of the tragedy in Greece following the successful management of the first wave and the tragic responsibilities for complacentness, illusions, widespread dispersion in crowding and overtransmission, inadequate tracking, gaps in the armour of the ESS, but also in the depth of the recession, differences in government forecasts. He knew that the debate would extend to measures, interventions, alternative policies, which could most effectively address the ongoing battle with pandemic, the needs of the economy and society in a prospect of productive reconstruction, fair and sustainable development. The Government wanted to avoid the invitation of the OENGE, the WTO, the EIAP, the Hospital Doctors Associations of Northern Greece, Thessaly, the whole country, not to hear the description of the nightmare reality in hospitals and now, not to hear about the exhaustion of the fighters of the ESS, about the extensive cases and deadly ones between health and their proposals for substantial public health protection regulations, along with vaccination for the armoring of the ESS, for the practical recognition of the social offer of the fighters of the ESS. He wanted to avoid the invitation of GESEFE and other bodies, in order not to listen to their most prominent 'category' for padlocks and the potential for substantial support for small and medium-sized enterprises. He did not want to hear the hammering of the middle class, the scientific bodies to denounce government policy, but also to propose. He did not want to hear workers' representatives denounce anti-government, neoliberal government interventions, such as the one under Article 91, which overthrows institutionalised trade union procedures, those under Article 83, which again prolong the increase in the minimum basic salary, Articles 70 and 72 for the hours and unpaid overtime of shops, which continue to operate on Sundays. He did not want to hear about ignoring priorities and tasks of the incredibly difficult historical period of this historic period, to ignore the support of the people of art and culture, the provincial newspapers. There's been some announcements, we're waiting to see how we deal with the government. He did not want to hear the National Confederacy of Persons with Disabilities or the Cysical Association for their proposals to extend the relevant provision to Article 52 and other chronic diseases. He did not want to hear about implicating the alleged acceleration in the granting of outstanding pensions, about photographic provisions, such as the ones concerning well-paid executives, direct awards and uncontrolled grants, tax bonuses in gambling, the extension of the stay to the department of head of Directorates-General, private cleaning workshops in hospitals, private hospitals, private nurses who speculate, avoiding to deal with the pandemic, supposedly accelerated the process of licensing the three hundred buses, supplied with leasing, without control. In addition, evidence of the indifference of the government to finance priorities and social needs of the current period was also given in the one-party vote of a budget for 2021, adapted to its ideas, to its neoliberal beliefs. From the first and fifth Article, the Government has the illusion that the need to take samples of biological material and directly carry out tests of rapid molecular tests by the PMUs, as well as for electronic recording in the National Register of Patients, will expire at the end of March 2021, due to the vaccinations prior to them. The operation of the FMDs ends on March 31st, a huge mistake. The pandemic will be late to end, with the fact that there can also be a third wave, but also mutated forms of coronary, as we can see. Government irresponsibility continues with the provisions of the second article on free testing. The Government does not care about the free electronic prescribing of molecular control of the citizens of suspected signology and their treating physicians assume responsibility for control. We can see that in the 2021 budget the financing of the EEA has been reduced by EUR 308 million and it is an interpretation why you are making these refusals. Thus, the government assigns the responsibility for detection to the EGE and only to the NGO, in the sixty - seventy - seven - seven - year - old health centers selected and in the Armed Forces’ health units, ignoring both private doctors and regional doctors in the additional areas and in the hundred and twenty - seven TOMY. The inadequate traceability of the EGE for the valid assessment of the epidemiological situation of the country is reflected in the sudden explosion of an excessive number of cases, which, of course, have now led to quarantine and West Attica and Kozani, which are being suffocated by a very suffocating quarantine, without knowing the outbreaks of over-transmission. You will see to Elefsina that the control carried out on the citizens there showed one percent of the rapid test. Where are the other supertransmissions? Is it in industries, in other ways, as with land workers, with public transport, with Roma and refugee settlements, with nursing homes, camps, churches? The usefulness of proper tracking is now proven in Australia. You see, Melbourne has a zero number of cases, while in Sydney exceptional quarantine measures were taken after sudden detection of a large number of cases. All this marks the value of integrated tracking. Under Articles 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 16 extends to 31 March the recruitment of ancillary functions of the ESS, the unacceptable movement of TOM personnel, health service providers and subsidiarys - otherwise you could meet the needs of the health system - the extension of the contract of private family doctors and the fixed-term work of doctors to address emergencies, due to the pandemic, the employment of private doctors in public hospitals. The conversion of the use of private nurse beds to combat dispersion, the cheques, is prolonged. We note our opposition to government practice not to proceed with the timely requisition of large private hospitals, such as "DIAVALCANIC" in Thessaloniki, in order to avoid the dangerous movement of patients from hospitals in Northern Greece and Thessaly in hospitals in Central and South Greece, as well as our opposition to the refusal of private clinics to hospitalize incidents of COVID. By Article 46 you regulate, by 30 November 2022, the possibility of overcoming the weekend working of doctors, a very important issue, which demonstrates how reluctantly you are planning issues for which the European Union is controlling us and can impose fines on the country. However, you are not oriented towards the system of permanent recruitment, so that there is a permanent opportunity to deal with the whole weekend in hospitals. With the other articles, the Government finds the opportunity to introduce regulations of other thirteen ministries, which could be promoted by the normal parliamentary procedure. We object to many regulations, such as the exclusion of fixed-term contracts at the ERT. We heard you were gonna do something. We are voting against the articles which regulate the taxation of gambling profits, with arrangements for betting companies, commissions directly awarded by the Ministry of Development and Investment, the antique arrangements at shop hours - which continue to work on Sundays, with unpaid overtime - and the transfer of the start of the National Development Programme on 1 July 2021, the arrangements under Articles 78, 80, 83, 84, 85 of the Ministry of Labour, the use of new technologies to carry out general meetings and antiquities, with the consequences on trade union rights, the extension of the validity of the new OAS regulation, the facilitation of the shipowners to pay reduced Christmas bonus to seafarers who are in suspension, the curious public service contracts, the acceleration of procedures for issuing civil service licenses, the injustice of employees of the PSY, the undeclared complaints against government officials. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We also have reservations about a number of other articles and questions and we are entering into the essence of our own counter-proposal. We, conscious of the challenges, the tasks and the possibilities of this time, aware of the priorities of this historic period, would take advantage of Parliament's meetings, the consultation of the other parties, particularly of the progressive space, with the actors, with society, to provide solutions to very important issues, such as the strengthening of the EHS to best deal with the ongoing war with the pandemic and the institutional and organisational reconstruction of the House, for the purpose of organising an integrated, universal, quality, newly-quality, quality, for Greece to become a model for the equal and free provision of quality health services to all, residents, refugees and visitors of the country, to meet permanently the needs of hospitals, ITH, health centres with ERH officials, which is why we proposed the announcement of fifteen thousand new posts for doctors, nurses and laboratory staff. We do not rule out the possibility of permanentisation in other ways, as the JRC proposed, but we are tabling a specific request for a roll-call vote, which says 'Consolidation for the protection of public health against the consequences of the coronary pandemic, strengthening public transport instruments, speeding up the awarding of pensions and the settlement of debts to local government and other urgent provisions', and we ask for these matters to be taken by roll call on Articles 72 and 91 of the draft law to be passed. We ask for the free electronic prescription of the molecular control tests, the establishment of incentives and the attraction of doctors to the ESS, the brave increase in the remuneration of the ERC officials, the granting of exceptional financial support for one month as a Christmas gift for all fighters of the ERC, as a minimum recognition of their social offer,...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Papadopoulos, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u26	I'm closing, Mr. President. ...incorporation of workers in hospitals in heavy and unhealthy, promotion of research programmes and clinical studies, such as the exploitation of specific T-cells in Coronovirus infection - we expect a reply from the Ministry of Health -, the implementation of the electronic file and computer records, the introduction of useful expensive medicines, such as monoclonal antibody preparations, which are effective in infection with European negotiation of their prices - so otherwise their costs are very small in relation to the benefit -, the extension of exemptions from the registration fee and traffic charges and transplanted lungs, to cytonic fibrosis patients, from heart failure, the substantial support of the people of art, culture, provincial newspapers, the publication of declarations in the regional press, the extraordinary financial support with a month's salary for the first line of pandemics in all major public transport companies, is made to cover all civil servants in the public service sector, as well as to the effective coverage of other civil service services, as well as any other civil servants in the public service sector. These interventions, as well as all the issues relating to productive reconstruction, fair and sustainable development, are for us the basis for building the political and social front for a progressive alternative government solution, whenever the elections take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u27	The special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr George Mulkiotis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if, at the end of the day, the coronary pandemic can help some people, that is certainly the government. Because behind the pretexts of extraordinary conditions due to pandemic its conservative neoliberal ideals are hidden. She hides her nakedness, hides her numb reflexes for her ineffectiveness. The government on Friday, December 17 at dawn brought a bill of amendments to the House, with provisions of fifteen ministries, which could have brought many months before either it could wait weeks or months later. In fact, this practice is the epitome of poor legacy. There is no other interpretation, there is no other excuse. The question at this time is not the impression of allegedly ineffective or effective, but the protection of public health, the economy and society, the protection of citizens. The government of supposedly excellent did and continues to do little. He's doing it too late, because he doesn't even have a sensor. And after ten months of pandemic is now coming to establish a framework for free tests by the KMY, while since the beginning of the pandemic we, the Change Movement, have pointed out the need for as many tests as possible. It now provides, by the urgency procedure, for the provision of medical services by doctors in primary health care, while we have proposed it since April 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, the early adoption of our proposal would mean providing at primary level significant assistance to the citizens who faced the virus alone who waited for hours at the EGE's phone centre to respond to telephone advice. It would also be a first order blockage of premeditated care and prevention patients coming to hospitals, pressuring the system. You didn't. The question of mental health will be raised by our rapporteur, Mr Poulas. As far as the provisions of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport are concerned, the Government is proposing some positive provisions, although they do not give a real solution to the deadlocks which it has been unable to avoid with its inertia for nineteen months. Even now, instead of adopting our proposals as a whole for the recruitment of staff, for the supply of spare parts for the repair of immovable vehicles, for the replacement of the fleet, for cooperation with municipal transport, seized brings changes in provisions and tries to give last-minute solutions to the problem of crowding. The bill also provides for the incompatibility and duty-free treatment of aid paid in the context of measures to address the health crisis in the primary sector. Clearly, the regulation is positive. But now you remember? Now you remembered it and forgot or didn't you know that in October aid was given and there was a problem? So why'd that come? Because you didn't know. Because you have no concern for the primary sector. That's the truth. And now, because there have been too many problems and protests, you bring that topic. Of course, there are issues about suspensions. Everyone owes it right now, and you know it. Now you understood it for farmers. And now you're going to give them some backup, and now you're discovering that these reinforcements will be confiscated. We have said so in good time, you have not listened to us. That's great reflexes! You'll be judging it. It is extended for eight months from the date of receipt of the permits for the residence and attestation of migrants, since the services of the decentralised administrations had collapsed before the pandemic, and a total dismantling has now occurred. However, in similar cases in the past, new authorisations were initiated from the date of the application. In other words, this is a false representation, since, when new licences are finally issued, they will have an earlier date. Incidentally, with regard to the extensions given to the various provisions of the various ministries, since they are directly linked to the horn pandemic, why does there not be a single line, ladies and gentlemen? Why does the government not give an extension by 30-6-2021? Why does it give fragmented extensions? So that we can have new extensions again? The Ministry of Tourism gives some positive extensions to some of the existing arrangements. It's positive. But he's forgotten about winter tourism. Deafening silence! There isn't? If it were not tragic, the provision of the Ministry of Environment and Energy which amends Article 14 of Spatial Law No 4759/2020, which was passed two weeks ago, would be ridiculous. It is almost photographic amendment, which demonstrates that there is already a candidate ready for the external coordinator's position to monitor the course of town planning and simply forgot to predict that his payroll will be covered by the host body, when he will be seconded by a European Union institution, which will not cover payroll. The government introduces as urgent arrangements for adjusting store hours on Sundays for the duration of the pandemic. Who is it about, when most stores are closed and the click away turns out to be a prank? It is another measure that will probably remain permanent, without any provision for workers. We are told by the Government that the function of drug storehouses and Sundays, which are provided for in 72, is to deal with problems of timely, adequate and safe trafficking in drugs. Suddenly now, ten months later? Is the government heading to the abolition of Sunday's holiday? It brings a provision granting an extension for a year to the public's obligation to publish in the provincial and regional press, which we know has been damaged irreversibly. The provision is positive, but not enough to plan properly, so that they can continue their work unreservedly. There must be a clear and concrete provision for the provincial press, which does not exist. It brings various provisions into the government in the remit of the Ministries of Infrastructure and Transport and the Civil Protection, which provide for a derogation. We recognize any needs. However, ladies and gentlemen, we disagree with the derogating procedures almost a year after the pandemic began, which is no longer justified. Today the emergency, a year ago the pandemic? It's not justified. We also disagree, in general terms, on limiting transparency in procurement, staff choices, etc. It shall bring urgent arrangements for the ELTAs and their subsidiary, the ‘HISTA CONTROLS S.A.’. However, it ignores the fact that courier traffic leads to double lockdown in the country, as if it were not interested that courier companies, such as ELTA, collapsed after each other, unable to cope with an increase in the volume of shipments. In addition, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you ignore the proposal we have put forward to support the postal and delivery sector, and it concerns the implementation of a direct and specific programme with three points: Firstly, the recruitment of unemployed people with work subsidy to courier, courier, ELTA and delivery services. Secondly, for the recruitment of unemployed people by themselves e-shops etc., who choose to operate with their own courier system. Thirdly, for the COMEP grant, IKE, etc., for direct creation of local courier networks by supplying electronic equipment and vehicles. Are you thinking of implementing these in good time? Or will you be ignoring them for months, so that you can bring them in when the knot arrives in the comb, as you have done with the proposal we made a year and a half ago to solve the problems of outstanding pensions, and now you have remembered and run and do not get there? In the autumn of 2019, Minister, we were talking about the redistribution of ECA staff to serve pensioners. We told you to use mobility. We told you to use the pensioners formerly employed in the CRP for a period of time, with experience in issuing outstanding pensions, in order to achieve the decongestion of accumulated outstanding pensions. Of course, Mr Minister, Mr Contozamanis, what can you tell us now when the Minister responsible is missing? You, too, have the great responsibility. In the Committee and here. Where's this procedure going? This is a good piece of legislation, even for urgency. How are we supposed to say there's a good legalization with every treaty? The Minister's absence to such crucial issues is unacceptable. We told you, therefore, as a government to keep the employed OAS graduates with OAS programmes, because they had acquired knowledge, they offered maximum pensions for the thirty-eight people who were employed in the awarding of public pensions. And what were you telling us? You said to Mr Kegeroglu: 'You are a populist'. You insisted that the problem is not dealt with with the human resources of the EKT, nor with good initiatives and efforts and intelligent operational and organisational changes. The Minister said that he was treated only with the "ITLAS" system - Digital Pension. What happened now and you changed your mind? Have you landed in the harsh reality now that the shotguns are hitting you and the European Commission is pulling your ears? Or are you now populists? Because populist is anyone who falsifies reality in order to obtain micro-party benefits and impressions. In other words, you who have for so long refused your failure are denying the reality of the three hundred thousand outstanding pensions created by your siege, added to the illusions of the previous government. In any case, we are actually welcoming you. We know that among you to admit to the government that if you had heard the Change Movement, the loose ends would have been much less or would have been settled. So welcome, even cowardly, the acceptance of our proposals. Of course, the provision in Article 80 should be elected in its implementation and should focus mainly on retired people after 2016, not those who were retired before 2016, in order to have experience of the current legislative framework of Law4387/2016 at the time. Article 79 provides for the provision of staff of scientific societies and chambers to be made to e-ECA. Are you aware - is it not about you, Mr Contozamani - that there are no conditions and disposal regimes and that non-legislative acts will be produced? What do the House bring to the vote today? How, without legitimacy of mood, will they be able to sign and handle cases? It's never heard of! He has to retire completely! It's unacceptable as a provision! Today we are proposing something else. Proceed quickly to the recruitments pending at the FBI. Ask the ninety-nine graduates who are employed in OAS programmes to come back. Take advantage of them. What do you not understand from what we're talking about? What don't you understand? Don't do any patches all the time. Unfortunately, even the Ministerial Amendment on the legalisation of the time spent on additional and main insurance of the former OAS demonstrates once again the sloppyness of this monstrous problem of outstanding pensions. For you are legalising the time of OGA insurance up to 31-12-2016, without the statutory rules required to control the goodwill of the insured person in the OGA and without, however, abolishing the provisions which obliges OGA officials to check the goodwill of the insured person in the OGA. You also legalise the insurance time until 31-12-2016. But isn't there a problem with the time of insurance after 2017? You will find the same problem in front of you again and you will come back under the same order again to the House for an extension from 1 - 1-2017 onwards. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] And now, of course, you realize that we need to upgrade computers and electronic infrastructure for the regional system. He obviously needs it. However, it had to be done after this action that we and publicity and public pressure as a Change Movement for the Government's need to proceed with these processes and upgrade the regional system. So far he didn't know the Ministry? What did he do so far? So it had to come now in this urgent procedure. But, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the majority rapporteur, why did he have to come by direct assignments and opaque procedures after nineteen months when the Minister made his arguments out of this position on digital pensions? Why had these supplies not been made in a normal and transparent way? Didn't he know them? The e-ECA farmers, who have upset all the farmers in the country, do you not know that they have delayed the granting of pensions, who have remained without a pension since 2016? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] More than that, with regard to the retention of part of the single payment for farmers. There's a lot of upset all over the country. Part of the single payment has been retained and is deprived by farmers - the day before yesterday, on Friday - a pandemic, over EUR 100 million, which farmers absolutely need, to cover their obligations at the end of a very bad year. There must be a direct return of the illegally detained farmer with full transparency. Article 91 provides that general meetings of trade unions and other organizations may be held. There are provisions which extend their term of office until 30-6-2021. What's this arrangement for? Do we really want you to tell us what this provision serves and why only until 31-3-2020 and not more? Why, if we say that digital transformation is accepted, should it have an end date and not be continuous? So how did this provision come about? After which consultation with social partners? No one! So what's he hiding? Let the Minister tell us what he's hiding. In its alleged urgent bill, the Government also extends by four months all the time-limits of the procedure to form the minimum wage and the minimum wage in the year 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, how many extensions do you still want to give? Can I make a prediction? You will continue to extend until we reach a step before the elections. How long before this goes for the minimum wage? As a movement of change, and I would point out, Mr President, we have expressed with Parliament our concern and opposition to the postponement of the minimum wage process, which is from February 2019. Once again, however, this provision confirms that there is a problem. We had tabled an amendment in January 2020 to the draft law of the Ministry of Labour. He ignored her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u29	Finish, Mr. Mulkiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u30	Your tolerance for at least a minute and a half, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u31	Not a minute and a half. I already left you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u32	The government and this provision on this matter have been ignored. It is clear and undeniable that the government in this provision does not support either work or wages. With regard to Rule 81, on the clearance of the outstanding obligations of the EPC, the House should be informed today what the level of existing debts of the EPC is and how it is ensured that 30-6-2020 has been cleared up. How is this documented? In Article 82, on the reintegration of the pandemic affected by insurance contributions, why not all the non-entry to date and especially the farmers? There are too many who have never joined. Why is the possibility of these farmers joining today too?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u33	Come on, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u34	In Article 94, leave the tour guides out of the measures. While you refer to the people of culture, to Article 20 of Law 4722/2020, this amendment does not mean tour guides. You leave them completely outside. We want, Mr President, to end up with the government to see the contractors of whatever form, OAS, a subsidiary for sufficient time to serve the pressure needs due to pandemic and, on the one hand, to initiate and complete the necessary evaluation procedures under the AACC for their uninterrupted integration into permanent human resources. My colleagues will refer to the other amendments that we have tabled. I shall only mention, Mr President, what we have said about the integration of health into the heavy and unhealthy professions. This is the tenth time that we have tabled and the government has, unfortunately, done nothing. We say that no one perfect and no one infallible. What we need to look at today is the great picture. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u35	A request for a roll-call vote has been tabled for Rules 72 and 91 by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and the signatures of colleagues are available. The floor will be taken by the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. By way of urgency, the Government will make arrangements to satisfy claims of business groups and to worsen the conditions of pay and work for workers. In the mosquito, it subtles the important conquest of the working class, the Sunday holiday. Before this conquest, the workers of the songs, such as my "daughter, for it to be slowed down and not too late, the work is done, it reveals to us the sunwork, as the owner of the "JUMBO", the big business groups, which are not enough for the ten-hour work you have done, but they want a 12-hour job. Is this your progress? Again sunworking with sun? That's what you're creating, the work gorgeous! The government is making use of the deadlocks it creates with its criminal plans to tackle the pandemic in order to take the step on Sunday holidays in trade, as did the previous ones. And SYRIZA, of course, has put his hand on this path. It presents the Sunday work as necessary in order to address the hams created due to the replyable lockdown and the flask called ‘click away’, in order to justify the unjustified eyes of the workers and self-employed, who are now pushed into natural extermination for the sake of profit for commercial chains and supermarkets. Workers and the self-employed not to grant this great conquest which will attract other branches and strengthen their common struggle to defend Sunday holidays. We invite you to withdraw Rule 72. The government continues to attack workers' organizations and under the pretext of pandemic changes their statutes by strengthening employers' and state intervention by electronic voting in the decision-making by general assemblies and the formation of pleasurable correlations in antiquities. We call on you to withdraw Rule 91. We have spoken on this matter for a long time. The regulation of the bill is consistent with the strategy of capitalist development, the choices and designs of business groups. Both SYRIZA and PASOK - KINAL and other parties, of course, who do not question this form of organization of the economy, the power of the bourgeoisie. The commercialisation of public health, the strengthening of the private sector, the deepening of public-private partnerships is a common strategy. This also applies to these pandemic conditions. The logic of cost-benefit is that which is reflected in the bill, with a firm commitment of the Government to reduced funding for the public health system. The cuts in almost 600 million provided for in the budget in the middle of a pandemic show your direction. The great lack of medical and nursing staff, the lack of necessary ICUs, based on international standards, has led the system to its limits. And you continue to cover the huge gaps with subsidiary, contractors and convert beds into ICUs or by transferring ICUs from one health unit to another. The JRC has made concrete proposals: a true private sector qualification, the creation of the necessary ICUs, cover all health service deficiencies, according to and according to the proposals of health workers' organisations, free tests, inspection measures at workplaces for the maintenance of health protocols. In this context, we have also tabled the amendment on the permanentisation of the four thousand employees with the OAED programme in the public health system, which have been engaged in continuous prolongation since 2017. We urge you, Minister, to accept this amendment. Under Article 42, the government is making another gift to health entrepreneurs, who are already active in the field of daily hospitals. It meets their requirements, gives the possibility of expanding their activity in relation to the original licence. We agree with the payment of ERT employees. We will not, however, agree with extortion for resignation of their claims. We understand that the workers want to get their jobs. However, we are also asking the government to include workers with fixed-term contracts who were working at that time. The bill provides for continuous extensions to the "Consumer-WORK" anti-labour programme which has become and generalizes flexibility, reduces workers' wages by over 20%, extends the suspension of contracts of employment, with the exemption of employers from paying wages and insurance contributions, continues by reversing the calculation of the Christmas gift. We would also like to add that Article 16 does not calculate the corresponding cost of travellers' magazines, newspapers in other modes of transport, such as subscribers. Instead of introducing unemployment benefit without conditions, the Government is reducing to fifty days in insurance for the provision of regular unemployment benefits for food - tourism, leaving thousands of workers without protection. And here we have made several proposals, which the government has rejected. Even in the areas affected by the 'NANO', but also in Samos, which was affected by the earthquake, it does not reduce the days, even at 30, which may have been the time for some workers to work. The outstanding pensions included in the bill invoked by the government are the responsibility of all governments. The tragic situation in which applicants get pensions up to the decision, which is up to four years old, is your responsibility. The outstanding pensions are a disgrace. The reduced expenditure by EUR 2.67 billion, despite the increase in the number of pensioners, shows that the issue of the outstanding and the award of final pensions will continue. By exploiting this negative development of outstanding pensions, the Government brings in a series of anti-corruption arrangements to deal with the issue, such as posting of public workers for six months - who will, until they know the subject, leave - and employment of retired ECA pensioners etc. With balls, that is, trying to cover the fixed and time-consuming needs of the FBI. These can be addressed with an increase in funding rather than with a reduction in the budget, with the recruitment of permanent workers through IAS for the rapid award of pensions, completion of the performance of final pensions, completion of the digitalisation of the workers' insurance history. We don't disagree with the resignation of the FBI from the lawsuits. We are in favour of the OAED being added to this arrangement. But we disagree with the extortion of resignation of claims. We have tabled amendments concerning the exceptional aid for the unemployed, the payment of the full gift to workers, the reintroduction of the gift, the third and fourth wages, and the reintroduction of the minimum wage to 751 and the collective agreements. You have rejected them, but we will insist here and out in the movement to claim them. For the workers of culture, the visuals written in the register of the Chamber of Visual Arts of Greece and not the "ERGANI", are left uncovered. We call on the Government to subject this regulation and to add to paragraph the phrase "... and the visually registered at the Chamber of Visual Arts of Greece", so that they may be strengthened for this period. In the regulations of the Ministry of Shipping, shipowners, while the budget is increased by almost 150 million, in addition to the tens of millions for the equivalent of transport, depopulated by pressure on islanders and seafarers and threatening that, if their requirements are not met, ships will leave. They are presented as affected and are supported by the measures of the bill. Islanders and seafarers pay with fewer routes, by privatising seafarers, with exhausting hours, with suspension and "COMPANY WORK", which means reducing their income overall. As far as the regulations of the Ministry of Transport are concerned, the Government has criminal responsibilities. Public transport is health bombs. The huge shortages in buses, drivers, craftsmen, as well as the lack of measures to protect workers make the situation explosive. Four and a half million passengers travel every week. Instead of directly plundering the routes, hiring the staff required, renewing the fleet of vehicles, instead of obtaining the spare parts necessary for repairs to vehicles, the Government comes and promotes further strengthening business activity in urban transport and the direct involvement of individuals through public-private partnerships. It's coming up with new overturns of workers' rights! In the dramatic wage cuts of up to 50%, in the sweeping changes in industrial relations, accidents and occupational diseases, it also adds the suspension of the permits with the 500 euro cheese. Article 118 provides that the aid granted to the primary sector for COVID -19 is duty-free and incompatible. In fact, here the majority rapporteur has told us that if we did not go with urgency, farmers would be in trouble. These aids - we have said in committee - are crustaceans, or 1% of the total package, including subsidies to large enterprises in the primary sector, such as fish farming. For a number of reasons, the measure is then a holiday because they have been receiving aid for some time, such as sheep and goat farmers, fishermen and others. It is not specified whether the measure has retroactive effect. Although we have said so in committee, the government did not answer us. If he doesn't, it's too late. You remembered too soon! We say that the money should be repaid to those farmers who have been seized, with retrospective effect, of course. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For the arrangements of the Ministry of Justice, the urgent measures proposed by the Government do not address the acute problems created in the courts and will create new difficulties in the employment of workers, particularly small lawyers, and pose risks for the interests of the weakest parties. Furthermore, it is particularly problematic that the provision of Article 134, which extends selectively the time of criminal law limitations in cases of tax evasion, which will in practice have a negative impact on small and medium-sized enterprises, which are, moreover, those in the interest of tax controls, prolonging their involvement with the courts in clearing their case. The JRC has demanded a large number of interventions, proposals for laws, amendments, questions, questions and petitions, direct reinforcement of the public health system, protection measures in the workplace, public transport, schools and other critical areas, so as not to remain without decent income, in support of the unemployed and poor people's families, especially the holiday days. We will not stop claiming the protection of the health, life and rights of the people. The Government rejected our proposals, as did the recent amendments that relieve the working people, such as the exceptional reinforcement of all the unemployed to 600 euros, the payment of the full Christmas gift to those who are suspended and "COMPANY - WORK", the reintroduction of the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions and salary for pensioners and health workers in the OTAs, as a whole in the public sector. On the other hand, under the pretext of pandemic, the Government legislates the firm claims of business groups, carries the consequences of the pandemic and the new crisis to workers and people's strata, legislates new privileges and incentives for business groups, which ensures them new support packages and even cheaper labour force. At the same time, it seeks to impose cemetery silence, criminalising trade union activity and strengthening authoritarianism and repression. It is such a willingness to defend the employer, which was the day before yesterday, in intervention by the President and Secretary of the Federation of Textiles in a company that wanted to grab the special-purpose allowance, who ran and acted as a team defending the employers to arrest them. This is the climate you have created: full immunity of the employer with the contribution of the police. In other words, you are hypocritically bringing an article on penalties to an employer who receives an amount of the special purpose allowance from an employee. Today is the last day of payment of the Christmas gift. We call on the government to ensure that it is paid to workers. Non-payment is her responsibility. The class movement is not compatible, it is not subject to the dictatorship of capital. It is organised, reconstructed and with steady steps progressing in the counter-attack. Finally, we reiterate that we are voting against the principle. The articles will be put to the vote. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u37	Me, too, Mr. Katatotis. The floor will now be taken by Mrs Maria Athanasios, by the colleague from the Greek Solution. The circle of speakers will be closed with Mrs. Fotini Bakadima. Then there are the chosen colleagues, as I said, Mr.Lippis from the New Democracy, Mr. Xanthos from SYRIZA, Mr. Pulas from the Change Movement, Mr. Hetas from the Greek Solution and Mrs. Angeliki Adamopoulos from Mera25. And here there will be a relative increase in time from five to seven minutes. Here, Mrs. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Before I start commenting on the plan, I would like to make some points. First of all, with regard to the government's vaccination programme, she announced that a hundred and fifty thousand citizens, including many of our neighbours in the Balkans, will initially be vaccinated according to reports. Incredible things! We, with our damaged economy, are taking over the vaccination of our neighbours of Skopje? Should the European Union not address the issue? Will we also bear the costs of vaccination and all the people who are in prison in our country, as well as the Somalis who are across Izmir and are waiting to arrive? Regarding the multi-legislative bill, the so-called health bill submitted by the government to literally get us to sleep under the urgency procedure, is in fact a multi-project involving twenty-four Ministries and includes photographic services of specific business interests. Such methods insult both our intelligence and the civilization itself. The arrangements in the plan have made urgent as a result of government stagnation and indifference. This legislation contains provisions which are important, but there was no reason to introduce in the form of an emergency, because it has been dealing with issues known to you for many months and which we, as a Greek Solution, have repeatedly pointed out to you and we have drawn your attention. Repeatedly we have asked you to take long-term and permanent measures, strengthening the many health industries, measures which will make health structures credible and adequate to the citizens. It's time to refresh! There's no time to lose. On the contrary, you are attempting with semimeters and patches to face up to current problems once again. You are trying to deal with serious issues that could have been adequately processed, including any legislation in the months before, with legislation on urgency, introduced at 12.15 seconds at midnight, without sufficient processing, without discussion with institutions and without substantial consultation. Your choice to enter it under the urgency procedure leads us inevitably to the conclusion that you are avoiding effective consultation, for obvious reasons. I guess you're in panic. You weren't expecting the coronary to resurrect in winter. You believed that you were done with the virus and that you did everything perfectly, so that we are counting to date over four thousand dead, with a prolonged National Health System and with an economy whose tragic consequences will appear in 2021. The government is obviously terrified not only of the extent of the tragedy, of the deaths and of the perpetrators, but mainly of its own responsibilities, of reassurance, of ruthlessness and of its mistaken assessments of the level of recession. Only the Greek Solution through Mr. Villardou spoke of a 10%-11% recession. Already the amended financial deficit of eleven months is EUR 18.3 billion. Do you understand what that means? With regard to commenting on some of the articles, I have to point out the following. The first fifty articles, which concern the Ministry of Health, were known not only for months, but indeed for years since you were preparing to take over power and announced to the Greek people that you would modernise the health industry to provide services that match the Western country. But everything else you have done and done. Instead of recruiting permanent staff in the health sector, which we have repeatedly proposed and for which we have repeatedly protested, you are resorting to semi-meters. You are resorting to extraordinary transfers to ancillary staff, hired private medical staff, employment of vulnerable doctors and no permanentisation, as if you did not want the National Health System to be sustainable and effective. You have delusion, when you consider, in accordance with Articles 1 and 5, that the necessity to take samples of biological material and carry out rapid molecular tests by the mobile special-purpose health units to detect pandemic cases, as well as for electronic recording in the National Register of Patients, will end at the end of March 2021 due to vaccinations. Here scientists talk about a third wave, and you go make the same mistake as that of summer. The fact that you have also shown yourself in the budget when you did not even calculate any lockdown in 2021. In addition, where is the electronic prescribing for free molecular checks? Why are you forcing Greek citizens to pay them out of their pocket? In Article 4 we must be particularly careful about the personal data of Greek citizens, because the end date, June 1, 2021, hides suspicious thoughts of constant control of citizens. Articles 6 and 7 regulate the procedure for the administration of medicinal products other than authorised indications to coronary patients by medical doctors approved by the EOF, as well as the procedure for the dispatch of medicinal products to vulnerable groups and patients subject to restriction. When approved by the European Medicines Agency, the introduction of monoclonal antibodies and other preparations, which show an effectiveness in infection, could be included in these articles? In addition, in Articles 10 and 15, move staff and extend temporary recruitment of health personnel. But is it possible you haven't made permanent recruitments after all this time? What else are you waiting for? By renewing contracts you do not professionally fortify doctors, but you put them in a permanent state of stress about the perpetuality of their work. Also, you cannot continuously move personnel on the grounds of the coronary. This is at the expense of all citizens. There are other diseases and people are suffering. Can we eventually get sick of something else? As far as Article 18 is concerned, although it is good not to introduce antiseptics, strengthening domestic businesses, but provided that the standards are complied with and that the quality checks are carried out. With the health and safety of citizens, we are not playing. There are no qualitative retreats. As far as Article 21 is concerned, we have been talking so long about deficiencies in IF and while you should have covered the shortcomings, you only have to cover your inadequacy, with the pretext of converting beds into MFN and IFN. This does not in any way help the readiness of the ESS to the pandemic that is plagued by our country. And I come to Article 22, which deals with the forced disposal of public spaces. When we call a requisition, we mean a requisition, not a semimeter. There can be no so many private clinics and there can be an aerospace of patients from northern Greece in Athens. Check private clinics and do not be afraid in the face of the value of human life. As far as Article 25 is concerned, the original legislative provision for the conclusion of a contract for the use of aircraft for the use of aerospace patients was until 30-9-2020, and this article is extended until 31-3-2021, mainly to cover those suffering from coronary diseases. Is this just a cover for the government's intention to privatise airspace? There is no possibility of such tragic deficiencies in the country's health system and, above all, in the basic health centres, hospitals - the province and the islands. It is unacceptable that the Ministry of Health does not have an aircraft in its possession in order to serve the serious incidents of the citizens of these areas and to risk lives being lost due to a lack of the state. May the Armed Forces and the Security Body had adequate equipment, so that they could have them for the patients as well. The provision of the article is not a solution, but a semi-meter. Rehabilitate our hospitals at the border and on our islands. Give incentives to the staff and doctors. Article 26 extends until 31-32021 the possibility of the public limited liability or supervision of the Ministry of Health to call for direct purchase of health material, personal protective measures and medicinal products, for the purpose of covering the emergency, protection of public health, by way of derogation from all existing national provisions on public procurement, as well as from the National Centre for Hazardous Products and Reagents, for the purpose of conducting examinations of Coronary Materials and Reagents, by way of derogation from all relevant national provisions. Contracts in all cases shall be concluded on the sole basis of the lowest tender and the purchase of sufficient quantities to meet the exceptional requirements. Apart from the fact that the provisions are photographic and, obviously, public money is directed to specific wallets, there is also a major qualitative issue. Is the above health material, personal protective measures, medicines and reagents to carry out coronary examinations, which the State bought and purchases, effective and reliable? I repeat that with public health we must be very careful. Article 28 states that the health regions of the country may carry out procedures for the provision of all kinds of medicinal products, medical devices, etc., by way of derogation from national provisions. Article 3 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 What are these drugs? Is there going to be approval? Transparent procedures for covering public procurement. Immediately again, KYA baptizes sanitary spaces as reference centres. But are the necessary conditions fulfilled by the experience and knowledge of local doctors? Article 29 extends until 31-32021 the possibility of the public limited liability company under the name "Association of Pharmaceutical Research and Technology Institute" and the sanitary regions of the country, as central purchasing authorities, to carry out procedures for the emergency supply of medical devices and reagents for the diagnosis of coronary disease, with the criteria of lower supply and sufficient stocking. No reference to quality control. What can we do for cheaps and a lot of tests if they're unreliable? Provision could be made in the provision for quality control and cancellation of the contract and payments if it proves inappropriate. And this provision provides for reasonable suspicions of opacity and intention of making public money available to people of the government, without giving a special basis to public health. In Article 31, the health regions may, by way of derogation from the existing provisions on public procurement, contribute to private laboratories in order to carry out laboratory checks. The compensation will be borne by the budget of each region and each private laboratory will be paid only by the invoice. It's a lighthouse! In Article 42, private health operators are again favoured by clear exchanges. Article 46 refers to the extension of the possibility of overtime beyond the weekend for ERC doctors. Have you considered the workload, the physical burden, the mental burden, the risk of exposure to viral load of medical personnel at the time of work? These are on a daily basis, as part of the normal eighth. So imagine how much the overtime burden is. Overrun of the weekend requires a large number of permanent recruitments. Recruitment is estimated by the Federation of Hospital Doctors more than five thousand, a very important issue for which the planning of the government shows no real interest, nor is the Prime Minister's announcement in the PMD promoted. In Article 47, we see an attempt to set a 'day' at the Office of the Governor of the EEAS, while at least tragic is the reference to a CSCE. You change the qualifications required by the partners at the EEA Commander's Office and they can now be senior TEIs. What can anyone say? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In Article 51, the application of a zero VAT rate to vaccines and in vitro diagnostic medical devices for the prevention and diagnosis of the coronary, states that the rate of duty is set at 0% for vaccines against the disease. Why, however, should the vaccines against the coronary be excluded from VAT? It needs clarification. In Rule 76, Mr President, you are officially abolishing Sunday's holiday. So you jeopardize the cohesion of the family, the physical and mental health and the balance of the citizens, as if in a period of lockdown we have such a lack of time that we are urgently needed to cover Sundays and to convert it into a working day, on Sunday, which is a holiday day for our religion. I mean, on the one hand, we have to get a license, and, on the other, you're opening the shops. Isn't it next for everyone to get out? Suddenly, aren't you afraid of an increase in cases? Illegal and - let me - suspect Sunday's conversion into a generalised working day and, indeed, a period of prohibition. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, too. The speakers are closing with Mrs. Fotini Bakadima from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a multi-legislative bill, really a broom bill, which the government has brought to the vote on the urgent procedure, creating for all of us the feeling that it is trying to close all its legislative loose ends before the House has stopped for a few days because of holidays. It cannot be explained otherwise his haste after midnight to be discussed in committee on Friday and to be in plenary today. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that it contains urgent provisions is that you yourself have made it urgent, in your own loneliness and in your own indifference over the past few months. It became urgent from your own failure to manage not only the pandemic crisis, but also the employment, insurance, economic - and not just - issues of the country. After leaving thousands of employees in tourism, food, retail trade, culture and in all sectors of our country's economy to rely on the special purpose subsidy - those who have managed to take it - but also thousands of middle-sized, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to fight for the future of their business, now you are trying, with communications provisions and initiatives at the last minute, to convince them that you care about them. But let's go to the point, see the individual provisions. The first five articles in the bill, although they give someone the impression that, at last, you have decided to deal with what we are urgently asking for - and not just us - since the beginning of the health crisis, the creation of a network of mass tests, you are simply legislating to register the personal data of the audited, the echo of all the information and the double recordings and suppression of the number of cases in regions. The sixth article, now, essentially introduces the medicine for the first and medium stages, approved by the FDA, but not by the EMA, and states that it will be possible to use it, as is left to doctors. Indeed, this is a positive provision because, if implemented properly, it will be able to dismantle the ICMs of our country, since people who are in the early or middle stages of the disease will be able to take it and do not have to be invaded. Nevertheless, we would like to know: what is the design, what is the number of doses, what drugs, will they come to our country and what patients will have access to them? The ninth article, although it refers to recruitment of staff, is nothing but extensions of contracts and authorisations for the movement of health personnel. As we have said many times at Mera25 and I and all the other escorts, the only way to tackle the problem of the ESS is to support it directly, with permanent staff and, of course, it is not the movement and it is not the deforestation of primary health structures. If we see, then, most of the following articles, we will see that they are extensions of provisions of the first wave of the pandemic, of supplementary health care, of the creation of antiseptics from seized - frustrated drinks, of repair and of all. Of course, we saw how they were implemented by you when they were first legislated. However, in any case, it seems that our country remains in a mode quarantine until the end of March, and then we see. If we look at the other provisions now, some of them honestly make me wonder why they are in today's bill and they did not come to a previous bill from the Ministry of Finance, which we had been discussing a while ago. One of these is the gaming profits tax, Article 57, or the provisions relating to the General Secretariat for Budget Policy, the Directorate-General for Economic Policy, and several others. The expenditure now on the Development Bank, which is included in the provisions of the Ministry of Development, raises questions as to whether it is urgent. As for the Development Bank itself, which is only by name development, we have been placed when it was legislated. I won't expand today. We now go to the provisions of the Ministry of Labour. Amongst these, we also see the provision for transferring staff to the FBI. I honestly wonder: Now, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, have you realised that pensions are being delayed in our country? Now, did you realize that EVA should be strengthened by staff? Or will you transfer the responsibility for delays in special-purpose permits and reduce the physical presence of civil servants due to the pandemic? Believe me, even that's what you do, you won't convince anyone. In the other articles of the Ministry of Labour, we also see here also the main extensions of the programme of the «DUSTRIA», the residence of Heads of Directorates-General and Directorates-General, the insurance capacity of indirect members, etc. With Article 94, you consider that you are supporting workers in culture. Let me tell you, however, that those who are written or written on the special electronic platform are only a very small part. Most of the people working, workers working in culture, whether they are musicians or singers, from whatever point of view, remain without any support and they are really below the poverty line. He is trying to survive, because eleven months he has not received one euro and no longer has any strength, since all possibilities of support from a family environment and any savings can have been depraved. You do the same for employees in tourism and food. A few days ago we had arrests, because they were outside the Maximus Mansion to protest, because they are really hungry, because these people have remained unsupported and the mercy of the pandemic, on the one hand, and the poverty it brings, on the other. Let's go down to Article 98. Apart from the oxymocratic and ironic - let me say - the specific article'supporting seafaring' and starting with the words'shipowners, shipowners and shipowners affected by the pandemic', there is not even the supposed support for seafarers. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, are you mocking us, the MPs? Are you kidding yourself? Are you kidding the civilians? What support? What support are we talking about? A few days ago, on Friday, I had a meeting with PENEN and I was informed that, on the one hand, pension performance can reach up to two years, while, on the other hand, we are talking for over twelve months about temporary, about 14% of the people who are waiting to get one-off have left life, some have not even received the special purpose allowance in October, while others have not even been in July and we are in December. I collect specific information and make sure that, once I have it in my hands, I will present them to you, because it is extremely important to discuss it. I would like to extend to the other articles of the Ministry of Shipping. I won't, because I don't have the time. I will ask for clarification through parliamentary control. Let's go to tourism now. For the "Tourism for All" programme, we all remember - I just remind you - the complaints of the President of the Pan-Hellenic Hotel Federation about adding unauthorized accommodation to the list of accommodations in the program. We're going to the Transport Department. What do we observe at first glance? After the fiasco of the OSH competition - with the five-member rating committee, which became four-member, with the double publication of results, which showed that, on the one hand, the Ministry had months to plan and organize for the competition and, on the other hand, it chose to make it last minute by fast track, as usual, procedures, unfortunately - when we are running to prevent and do not organise, while we have eight to ten months at our disposal, we have the captive results of the competition. So we're resorting to a fixed solution. Who's that? To take the present workers to their limits to get out of the way. Because that is the only objective to enable your bill to suspend normal workers' permits. I wish we had time and we should have a debate, I think, more generally, about transport, working conditions and contracts in the urban transport of our country, Thessaloniki, Athens and not just. We believe that the provisions of Article 118 are reasonable for the incompatibility and duty-free of aid in the primary sector. In the positive direction, too, it is the debt adjustment plan to OTA and the suspension of enforcement measures should the debt be settled. Expected extensions of the contracts referred to in Article 151 are expected because of the pandemic. It is also positive that the residence certificate can now be issued through gov.gr. I only hope that the problem that the system presents will be corrected and that citizens will be able to settle with Taxisnet codes and not e-banking, as has been the case so far. I would like to close - I hope I have completed before twelve minutes - with reference to two amendments that we are tabling as a MERA25. The first concerns the integration into heavy and unhealthy health of all workers, health workers, couriers, supermarket employees - and not just - who from the first moment were in the front line. They give their struggle every day, beyond the pandemic, but also their struggle to serve and care for all of us. We have both retabled the amendments. We are going back to them, because we think they are essential to the situation we are facing now. The second amendment concerns the strengthening of the National Health System, by immediate simulation of subsidiarys, with the actual order of private clinics and the creation of a network of mass testing areas, which will become vaccination centres and, after vaccination, health centres. Please accept and support all of us, because they will both work to strengthen our citizens and our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u41	And the Bureau thanks you, Mrs Bakadima. As you know, my fellow Members will speak as a priority, as I have said. Immediately afterwards, anyone who wishes to speak from the parliamentary representatives will take the floor. He has shown his intention already, Mr. Skourlet, but anyone else can. The Minister informed me that he would speak after the list of speakers has been exhausted. He wants to hear all the colleagues. I tell you, just for the Members of Parliament, that you should plan for them. Mr Athanasios Ljupis will now be taking the floor from New Democracy. As I said, time will rise to seven minutes. Here, Mr. Lippi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what has happened in the past, today is one of the few cases where a bill is being discussed in the form of urgency in this government's term of office, despite all the very urgent situations we are facing. The principle is made by fighting the coronary. Those who wish to undergo a free coronary antigen examination on a voluntary basis can declare it on a special platform from today. The examination shall then be carried out, with a limit of the maximum daily number set by the EGE and based on the principle of haunted epidemiological observation. According to estimates, there is the goal of reaching twelve thousand random checks a day. A number of critical provisions are being extended which are already in force concerning the front of the pandemic. The bill places particular emphasis on mental health, focusing on early intervention. The early intervention units in psychosis, which are part of mental health units, are very necessary. They are set up for the first time in hospitals, university research institutes for mental health, mental health centres and community mental health centres for children and adolescents. This covers a serious and existing gap in the health system, which can now provide immediate medical assistance to those who are at the beginning of a psychotic disorder, with early diagnosis, monitoring, individual and family support, and through the use of primary health care structures. It is important to take care at prevention level for our students, especially now that the pandemic has a serious impact on the mental health of the young, as demonstrated by the research of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki during the first quarantine. HEIs can now set up dayclubs for the mental support of students. At the level of tax measures there is a zero VAT rate for Coronovirus vaccines, diagnostic tests and services linked to them. It is reduced from 100% to 80% the disability rate that those who are blind should have to be entitled to exemption from traffic charges and the registration fee for vehicles up to six hundred and fifty cubic centimeters. At the same time, VAT is reduced from 13% to 6% for products serving disabled persons. There are interventions to deal fairly with businesses and workers and to curb the consequences of the pandemic on the economy. Public undertakings issuing newspapers and periodicals are awarded a transport cost subsidy. All our requests were and the obligation to publish declarations in the regional and local press was extended until 31-12-2021. One of the burning problems of the insurance system is the long delays in the awarding of pensions, a matter on which the Prime Minister himself has been placed. The ‘ATLAS’ platform is the modern, digital and rapid way of awarding new pensions. With today's regulations, the Ministry of Labour is making every effort to deal directly with the pending applications. Officials shall be seconded to e-ECSC for up to six months and, if necessary, employees shall be overtimed in retired cases, in parallel with their principal duties. In addition, an incentive amounting to EUR 7,200 for staff participating in working groups shall be provided if quantitative objectives for outstanding pensions are met. This great effort is supported by scientists, lawyers, doctors, etc., who are made available to e-Ephka by decision of the chambers and scientific associations. Retired former e-Russian staff are also being retired with expertise in the award of pensions. Workers shall be protected under a provision providing for a prison sentence of at least six months and a financial penalty for employers who require and receive the special purpose allowance received by their worker. Leasing procedures for the supply of vehicles to be used in urban transport are accelerated. It is expressly stated that all aids granted by the primary sector as measures to halt the impact of the coronary are both incompatible and tax-free. The bill also includes the possibility of adjusting the debts to OTAs up to a hundred and twenty instalments. In conclusion, we have today a set of arrangements necessary for the proper functioning of the state mechanism in the battle against pandemic and for the effort to support economic life. These are essential legislative initiatives, which we must support. Thank you very much, Mr President. I wish everyone a merry Christmas! Happy holidays to everyone, in health!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u43	Also, Mr. Lippe. In order not to be nervous, with the President's decision and after consulting the parties, today's parliamentary scrutiny will be carried out tomorrow morning. There will therefore also be five-minute time for the parliamentary representatives, for the rapporteurs and speakers, so that you can put yourself on the amendments, because you did not have time to put yourself on the table. For all speakers the time will be seven minutes, with a relative tolerance. So I think the meeting will go smoothly. Mr Andreas Blonde from SYRIZA has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a very critical turning point in the health crisis in the country. There is a generalised sense of control loss and you are bringing in a multi-brand plan which actually extends for a quarter of regulations which have proved ineffective to support both the public health system and the real economy and employment and people's income. So for three months you're prolonging a failed recipe. This is, of course, the essence of the plan, beyond the fact that you are, of course, finding the opportunity to pass on provisions that clearly compress labour rights, which are unregulated for years in the country's social life. We also have the rapporteur for the New Democracy, who comes to present us with a magical picture. In other words, it tells us that the human potential in the National Health System has increased by 10%. I mean, you've made ten thousand recruitments, that's what you're telling us. It's about a hundred thousand workers in the system. Have you made ten thousand hires? So far you have told us seven to seven and a half thousand. These days, on the eve of the holidays, have we reached ten thousand? Mr Ploris told us that there has been a 25% increase in public health expenditure in this period. So, you've added more than 2 billion this year to public spending? Because it's 8.5-9 billion public spending. It is therefore 25% above, i.e. 2,250 billion. Who are you laughing at, ladies? The result is failure. Hospitals in northern Greece are in black out, West Attica in loss of control, increasing burden, and there is a serious risk to the entire Lefkadedi. You're making spasm moves. You start the moves of doctors, the first-line people, who have fought critically in the hospitals in which they work, at this time that the reserves have been exhausted - and it turns out that there was no necessary support - in the hospitals in Northern Greece, you are making transfers of specialists from Crete, from Attica, from Epirus. Are you going to exterminate and eliminate the last link of the first line of defense of the health system? I think, really, you've totally lost the ball. I think that at this time - and I think that West Attica is a characteristic example - it is an integrated plan and a comprehensive action, which is also about health care and the targeted control of the transmissible outbreaks - it has proved that the large industrial area of the country was completely powerless, particularly in the large factories and industrial units - and to strengthen the economy, income and, in particular, the health and safety of work, this great gap in the functioning of our country's health system and the pandemic has shown its crucial importance for the protection of public health. I think, therefore, that everything that is happening these days is much lower than the circumstances. You dare not do what the hospital doctors have indicated for months, but also the opposition. Incorporate, retire, check - as you say - the large private hospitals that have the ability to nurse cases of COVID -19, put them in the on-call system and the Lekane and Thessaloniki and the major urban centres of the country and unload and decompress the health system, withstand its people, not completely collapse the public health system. You don't because you're committed to the clinicians staying COVID - free at this time. Of course, you have no overall understanding and what are the new needs that have arisen from this great crisis and what are the priorities of an overall reorganisation of the health system for the next day? However, what is important now is to save human lives, to win the battle to curb the pandemic, which, unfortunately, has been focally evading this period in a worrying way. We've talked about the vaccine issue before. I don't want to say much. The vaccine is an important development, but it is an element of a comprehensive health strategy, which must include effective traceability and the control of dispersion, particularly in over-transmission, which we know are - factories, public transport facilities, closed structures, prisons, camps, refugee camps, Roma camps - where we are now detecting problematic reflexes and doing nothing. And, of course, it must include strengthening the health system, access to all medically documented and effective treatments and, of course, vaccination, which will gradually build the immune barrier in society and the general population. I shall end with an amendment which we have tabled concerning the work prospects of the four thousand workers in the health system today, through an OAED programme. These workers have received repeated extensions from both our government and from your own government, obviously, because, despite the election you said you would send them away, you did not dare do so in the middle of a pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u45	I never said that!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u46	The Health Officer of the New Democracy, Mr. Economou, said so. There's the minutes, there's the videos. It was said in the most official way. At the time the health system has this difficulty, it is important to give its human resources, which is "backed", a signal of perspective. That is what I think we are dealing with with with with this amendment. So what do we say? We do not think that the proposal from the JRC, automatic simulation, is something that can work in the current constitutional and legislative framework. What we can do is: institutionalise, predict, set up by legislation to the hospital agencies of corresponding positions in the same sections, in the same specialities of the current OAED contractors, to proclaim these positions as permanent, through the AACC, with increased molecules - we are putting forward a proposal of improved and increased pre-service bonuses - and to initiate the process as quickly as possible and, it is understood, until the coverage with permanent staff of these posts is completed, to extend the contract of current servants automatically and justly. In this way we believe that the overwhelming majority - the ideal - will be given to the whole - of the current servants through a legitimate and secure way, which cannot be swallowed anywhere, the possibility of continuing to contribute to the strengthening and smooth functioning of the public health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u47	Mr Andreas Poulas will now take the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government, in putting an urgent debate on sixty articles from various ministries, is trying to draw people's attention from the tragic mistakes of managing the second wave of pandemic. The common component of your errors is the obsessive application of a centralised system, which de facto fails to function. You have converted EGE into a giant organization that manages all aspects of the pandemic: conducting the tests, gathering the results, keeping the Register of Patients, managing the incidents that are under house arrest, COMICs. Now, with Articles 2 to 4, you are bringing the EGE up to an agency that can record all the epidemiological data by region in the country and really use them, I wish for the benefit of the citizens. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] We would point out, however, that the protection of personal data should be your first priority. We hope that you will have ensured this to the fullest extent. Already, after fifty days of prohibition, the spread of the virus cannot be controlled, especially in areas with closed structures and camps, such as West Attica, but also Kosani, which has also been strictly banned. Populations, such as the Roma, the repatriators, have remained without help and without information. EGE's tiles should have informed these people of the dangers and had to carry out daily checks in these areas. The fact that they have been left to their fate brings together whole regions, municipalities and local economies that are already narrowing and also burdening the hospitals in the area, which are unpreparedly called upon to manage the great burden of an uncontrolled situation. Also, as far as the action of these famous FMDs is concerned, you have said that you have created some five hundred mobile health units at the cost of some million euros. Will you at some point make us an account, tell us how many have you finally founded, what work have you done to date and how will you take advantage of this staff you have hired? And while the pandemic has taken these dimensions, in hospitals all the weight has shifted to the doctors’ shoulders and health care personnel. Move medical staff from hospitals in areas with a small load of cases, which have already had a great shortage of staff, and now you are stripping them completely. For their practicable reward - which the Change Movement has repeatedly called for - we have tabled very many amendments, concerning their inclusion in heavy and unhealthy, the duty free of newspapers by the ESS doctors, but also by the EAW, the payment of the Christmas gift to all health personnel without exception. Minister, can you explain with two words why you don't give us the Christmas present? It would be an act of reward for all this health personnel who are fighting right now. You don't even give them that? Thus, not only are their physical and mental extinction consolidated, but you also create counter-incentives for those doctors who want to permanently serve the ESS. At the same time, your party-selected administrations in hospitals, which you said you would assess, remain unavoidable. Some, in order to avoid their responsibilities, lead staff to authoritarian procedures in the EES, creating even greater deadlocks and despair among people serving in the EES. While hospitals operate at their limits, you continue the semimeters, maintaining the extensions of contracts, travels, private hospitals, appointments of a fixed time, bed conversions to ICUs and checks, without providing permanent solutions that will support the ESS's construction and after pandemic. Also, extend until 31 March 2021 the coverage of dialysis patients in artificial kidney units. For those who are coronary and traveling from hospital to hospital, however, you do not give a solution, set a reference hospital, in order to address these patients to undergo haemodialysis. I repeat, the coronary patients. You continue to derogate from the existing provisions of medical devices and medicines, while you know that the coronary came to stay and you had to schedule the supplies with the applicable provisions. Use as a washing machine the AEMYs, legalizing all their costs, instead of giving them the public access to see what is happening right there. Thirdly, you face the EEA as a gigantic monopsone, with enormous potential, to serve the public interest and as a field of 'days', by appointing collaborators and journalists for the needs of the president. Fourthly, you are doing favorable arrangements for the holders of daily hospitals. The same opacity and carefreeness prevail with regard to the mechanism for the acceptance and exploitation of donations. The Movement of Change has proposed that there be a permanent, reliable control mechanism under the supervision of the Parliament. Do the thing. Fortunately, even late, you are adopting our proposal for the provision of medical services to patients with COVID, which, if it had been adopted since April, which we proposed, might have been decommissioned by the hospitals but also saved human lives. As far as the mental health sector is concerned, you are literally slugging it with three provisions. Mental health is a large part of public health, which has so far been on the margins of state care and social welfare. Considering the influence of pandemic on the broader appearance and deterioration of mental illness, mental health must be a priority for the new year. With this and with the insistence on the centralised state, the government seems to have deposited its hopes of restoring the virus and reintroducing normality to vaccination. Communications attempts to convince it has the situation under control, but here it runs behind developments. The President of the Change Movement made a specific proposal for simultaneous vaccination of all political leaders. I would like to believe that this proposal was not accepted by the government, perhaps by failure rather than arrogance. Ladies and gentlemen, public health is a national bet to be won. We do not have the luxury of committing ourselves to experiments, while, throughout Europe, the social nature of the state is being strengthened. Our country has a long distance to go in relation to the European Union's average public health expenditure. It takes a national effort, which for the Change Movement is a priority. From your government, we ask you for measures, not semimetres. Solutions and no patches. It is not a question of making decisions, but of transferring responsibility. Finally, support the ESS, decentralize responsibilities that do not function centrally and leave party, class obsessions before being late. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, too. Mr. Konstantinos Hetas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I don't know if we should get into this much, really. I want to make two, three reports. I think - and I address the New Democracy colleagues, the rapporteur and the Minister, who are here - that you are unfair to yourselves. You better, you have more to give, go ahead. You've devastated everything. You're breaking the Constitution. You denounce us, the MPs, you give us no meaning. You play our part and you treat us like we are a 'nothing'. That's what you're doing! You treat us as if we were nothing! Do I have to talk about this bill now? What can I say in seven minutes, Mr President? They brought us a hundred eighty articles six hours ago? Say what? You're embarrassing Parliament, don't you understand? And there's a suspect in the role you're bringing them. Mr. Rapporteur of the New Democracy, don't raise our fingers on us. I was listening to you on Friday when you were telling us with your finger up: “Having beneficial provisions come. Aren't you going to vote on them?' If it is, then, and we have war with the virus and Greece to fight, and we have to stand up, the House will not close and we will be here all the time until we do what we have to do. This is how Parliament works in favour of the interests of the citizen. No, 'I bring them at night, I vote for bamboo and I'm leaving'. Here. They don't need Christmas or anything. We'll sit down and work. That's our responsibility to the world. You won't shake our finger for the scandalous things you're doing. First you will apologise to us, because you enjoy us in the way you treat us, and then to the Greek people. Half of what you bring is unrelated to health and you know it very well. But you know why you're doing this? Because you can. That's the answer. You can, that's why you're doing it. But the time of the account will come and the reed will break sometime, as Mylonakis says. It'll break the reed you've all ridden to the government. You don't account for anyone, you don't take into account anyone. What do you want with us here today? It's a show for one. Bring in, legislate, vote, get us out of here. What are you doing here? Are we opposition? You don't ask us anything! Whatever you want to do. Such methods insult the city itself, unfortunately, and I am sorry to say that. Obviously, Mr Ploris, as a responsible force for the Greek Solution, he will put back on the necessary arrangements - one another - for what is beneficial to the citizen today, in this crisis. But get it right. The Greek Solution is not trapped in such subtle legislative terminology. And we're going to the health issue, where you've been messing with it all this time. And I'll tell you why. In September - we were here, and I remember it now - you rejected the local lockdowns, proposed in time by the President of the Greek Solution, Kyriakos Velopoulos. He told you: "Go to local lockdown." Now you do. Today, you come and you do so late. You're on the Internet, you come with a time delay, you don't work in real time. You also rejected - to say it, that Babiniotis should not be misunderstood - the randomized mass tests. The Greek Solution told you: "Make a test", Random, better randomized, which is a Greek expression. You didn't. Now you come and you do it. You're rushing to do it. You laughed when Velopoulos told you about the drug with the monoclonal antibodies. He talked about it in time, and he met the ridicule, nothing else. Now we're talking about it, and he's slowly coming. You order it at turtle rate, of course, but it's coming. We have warned you about many more things that you are currently bringing to the bill and the coronary, but also to issues that concern our country. We also warned you about the vaccine, about how you go to impose it on the Greeks, instead of earning them honestly. Listen to something. There is one word in the Greek dictionary called 'philimo'. The word 'friendly' in no other language in the world is translated. There we were all "false" the first time of the pandemic and we won the Greeks and they obeyed and we all did great, government, opposition, but above all citizens. Philosophy, not a storm, terrorism, terrorism, and that's how I want to go through mine, because people are reacting. So what do you have to tell us now? We have the negative attitude of the health doctors, doctors and nurses themselves, Mr President, at the time when you are taking the line to advertise that the vaccine comes on 27 December, about who will be initiated by you. Hospital of Livadeas: "Yes to vaccination 36.4%, not vaccination 61.8%". It's the doctors, 61%. I'll submit it to the Minutes. Another post, Carditsa Hospital: "Yes to vaccination in 41.5%, not vaccination 58.4%". It's the doctors, it's the health doctors! The deafening, the 'no' scanning of health. And now we're going to an issue that we're reading today. These are expected. What are you doing? We see - do, see - do. But didn't we see what's going on? How long ago was the President of Greek Solution calling it? 'Three waves will come.' ‘The virus will be mutated’. Listen to a Mosaic statement: "Even if the virus changes into a more resistant form, the vaccines may be modified to be effective again." How? Already out, the vaccines have already been produced. What's gonna happen to these lots? Are we going to put something else on? But these things are funny. How will the vaccine be modified? I don't understand that. Another to come out of a new, complementary one. The batches that have come out? From tomorrow the world will be vaccinated. What about them? Here, another post. "Switched coronary strain and Greece," says researcher of the Pasteur Institute. Obviously this man is "split" like us. He can't be a reasonable man! And he's in the charge of "inhabited," isn't he? He's "sprayed" and this man. Anyone who disagrees with the New Democracy is'split'. What can we do now? Better'sprayed' and disagree, ladies and gentlemen! And two - three words about the bill. What can I say? And what don't you bring in this bill? And what you don't really bring to close the year in the worst possible way. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] You are bringing aircraft use contracts to operate aerospace patients, as if you cannot check them if you want and need to. Public contracts with direct awards by way of derogation from existing legislation, awards to individuals with doubtful results. You close your eyes at a newspaper agency. A normal party in the media by direct awards, by way of derogation from any other provision that imposes transparency. What are you doing? On the occasion of the coronary and the dreadful pressure you feel, some "later" win, and the Prime Minister again appears as a new Moses in the circles of entrepreneurship. How is it possible, Mr President, that I do not understand the following - and I read the same way - to'recruitment of staff in the LAGs in cases of immediate need for preventive or repressive measures as a result of a serious threat to public health'? You mean you'll hire staff to implement repressive measures? They're gonna make us "da", that is? Is that what you're gonna do now? Do you hire such staff? Is that what you want to tell the Greeks that the citation of the municipalities will be chasing Greek citizens? Is that what you're going to do? Are you saying this to the world? Let's also go to your favorite "investors", these mutilated people you bring them to Greece, illegal immigrants. What does the predictions of illegal immigrants have to do with a draft law of the Ministry of Health want a great deal of discussion. What do they have to do with them? But before I go to your new beneficial predictions for illegal immigrants, let me say this. All these illegal immigrants, according to the latest surveys - I was reading it yesterday on your website and I was really speechless - have flooded Athens, the capital of the country. One out of six is an illegal immigrant in Athens. If we have six citizens in Athens, one is one of them. These are shocking numbers. Why don't there be cases in the media about them, imports to hospitals or some intubated people? I haven't heard from anyone. I have not heard the deaths of your own 'investors'. Don't they, guys? Aren't they sick? Are you going to inoculate them, too? And, if so, who will pay? Are you going to tell us this today? These are from me in the short time I have had, in a bill that has a hundred and eighty articles and should be discussed for many hours and analysed. The worst thing you're doing - I told you at the beginning - is that you deceive your own colleagues, us, the Members themselves. You are making up the role of the congressman. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u51	Ms Angeliki Adamopoulou, Member of the European Parliament, now has the floor, which closes the first cycle of Members of Parliament. The parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA will then be given a Progressive Alliance, Mr Skourletis, followed by the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mr Gregoriadis. Here, Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Following on from the way in which the previous Member has properly closed, I would like to say that the implication of all of us, all of our Vice-Presidents, is once again associated with this classic excuse, the classic statement by the government, that here we have an urgent bill, which includes a hundred and eighty articles and unrelated ministries, because it is very critical, very serious. But, considering that it has been around eight to ten months since the start of the first pandemic wave and the design of your state of service has shown that you are under the circumstances, this leads us to conclude that we should essentially consider the seriousness, but also how much you have perceived this seriousness of the situation so long that you can bring an urgent bill. Before I talk about health shortages, I should like to focus on a last night's report, which refers to the West Attica region, which has been recorded as an outbreak of coronary overtransmission, precisely because of the operation of industrial units without precautionary measures, the port, because of the operation of public transport, where workers are transported unscheduled without, I repeat, any precautionary measures. And while both the Mayor of Elefsina and the Vice-President of the West Attica had pointed out to Mr Chardalia a few days ago - in particular on 11 December - that extensive mass controls should be carried out and that there should be a divergence of movement in this area, that more routes should be made in the public transport sector and that mass tests of EGE should be carried out, what was Mr Chardalias doing? Absolutely nothing. He didn't say anything. The only thing he has done, when he realised the size of the cluster, is to deliver these results to the Roma community in the Acharnes region and finally to impose a universal lockdown on the region, but without shutting down industrial units or even maintaining their function, by taking appropriate protective measures in favour of workers. Therefore, extend with this draft law until 31 March 2021 the term of validity of various provisions relating only to one third to the Ministry of Health. The rest of the hundred ten articles are irrelevant. They have to do with other ministries, such as the Ministry of Labour, where we certainly anticipate an expansion of working hours, of Sunday work. There are provisions in relation to transport, which, of course, are the framework for transport. It facilitates the limitation of criminal offences on tax evasion. Fuse the issue of adjusting the minimum wage. I would also like to refer to the very suspicious Article 66, which in fact you are punishing the media which did not sign up to the new commercial policy with the ARGOS distribution agency, a provision for which special explanations are needed. As far as the health sector is concerned, what do we say? Communicating case numbers. It's a fact, again according to reports, that we're talking about an ending mess at the National CIVID Patients Register of the HICP. This has cost EUR 299 000, and yet we have signed the cases, signature of the interlocked, signature of the dead. Of course, you welcome the fact that a small country with a very small population has done well in relation to countries of another archipelago, such as the United States of America. We are talking about creative reading of situations. Because what you have failed to say is that on the record day of the deaths in Greece, the record was actually much higher than the United States. You're nowhere to say that we've crashed in the indicators, that we're not being tracked with massive tests. You are annoyingly embracing the vaccine. Silence deafeningly for the proper treatment of monoclonal antibodies according to the scientific community, a treatment that has been shown to reduce dispersion and can produce very positive effects in patients with moderate symptoms. It is well known that the former President of the United States has been cured by this treatment. It's a treatment Mr. Kouvelas, professor of Pharmacology at the Aristotle University, as have Mr. Farsalinos, doctor, researcher at the University of Patras. I have one question to ask. Why does your government, the state, not fund the research that is currently being conducted at the Papanikolaou Hospital in collaboration with the AHEPA Hospital, an investigation that has shown that it has produced positive results at the preclinical stage? Why does the state promote the interests of private pharmaceutical companies from outside and does not publicly fund any research that is to be done, either at the level of the manufacture of a medicine or an vaccine? Social health expenditure in the budget you have voted on is reduced. Of course, with regard to the state of health staff, according to complaints from WTO and other workers' organisations, existing health personnel are at risk of exhaustion and a burden on their health, and you do not intend to hire new staff. The Minister for Health's answer was that 'we do not need enough, we need the applause and reward of citizens', as if we were saving citizens. I conclude with one amendment that I tabled today. It has to do with Article 146, which provides for recruitment to the ATTs to deal with the pandemic. I would stress that they have already been hired with four-monthly contracts of major, neuro-algal specialties to deal with the coronary, such as road cleaners, social workers in "Help at Home", machine operators, collection. These are very important points to which they have carried out their duties very efficiently and are at risk at the moment with the termination of their contracts in Genares, i.e. with redundancies, and what needs to be prioritised, in addition to the new recruitments, is that these people maintain their jobs, because they have learned the work very well. So they can even help newly recruited ones. In such a critical situation, efficiency and speed are the primary. We therefore propose, with this amendment, that the four-month fixed-term contracts which exist under Article 24 be extended, namely a second paragraph. Because the extension of these contracts is something that the Municipality of Athens itself has consented to in a unanimous resolution from the Municipal Council. We are therefore proposing that this amendment should be voted on so that so many people who have brought their jobs to a maximum in relation to the treatment of pandemic do not lose their jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u53	Thank you. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA has the floor - a Progressive Alliance Mr Panos Skourletis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are approaching the end of a difficult year, which I imagine is self-evident for all of us that our thoughts first of all are in the more than four thousand fellow citizens who lost the battle with the coronary. I think that, when we are called upon to legislate, to control you, to plan to deal with this unprecedented pandemic, we must have those values and priorities that correspond to the criticality of moments. In this sense, all this time, these nine months had an urgent character. However, if one excludes the fast reflexes of the first phase against the pandemic, the rest of the rest of the time runs through contradictory measures, with a lack of planning, with a risk being underestimated, resulting in the well-known situations that we have been experiencing in recent years. There was no holistic plan to support the public health system, to deal with the pandemic, to support labour, to support businesses. Instead, there have been fragmentary measures and a strictly ideological concept, which has led the economy to live up to one of the greatest restructurings at the expense of the many and the powerless, and in favour of the few strong economic centres, and to the health of chasing the events from behind: the dropping point of view, mass tests, which are now realising the need. Yesterday the World Health Organization made announcements in front of this possible mutation of the virus and spoke about the need, usefulness, of mass tests. And one of these is the least you can do while exercising a policy that you did not stop a single moment from "closing the eye" to private individuals. That's why you refused to prescribe, and that's why after too many months, you put the tests on valuation. Now, in the face of these situations, as it solved the public health system, you run and you do 'blocks'. You get workers, you get nursing staff from other units, and you send it to the'red' areas. Disappear the first degree of health, the TOMYs, which should have joined and been exactly the first "fort" against pandemic within a holistic plan to deal with it, and move from here and there. There was an amendment, which Mr Xanthos presented before, for those who are already in the public health system by means of the OAED programmes, after the specific positions they have taken have been recorded, to call for a statement of their positions, through a similar rationalisation of their own. We have therefore reached the order of private health structures, without knowing what their essential contribution is, what they do exactly, if they can do so. All this led, first of all, to the appalling deterioration of the situation in northern Greece, focusing on Thessaloniki. We see intercategories. They open their mouths, now that they retreat the ground under your feet. But we learn that Mr. Djijkostas, who had made a suggestion before St. Demetrius for Lockdown in town, was ignored. Who knows why. That's what Mr. Chardalias says. However, these are questions which must be answered first of all to the Greek people and, of course, also to the Greek delegation. And the most tragic of all is the way you faced West Athens. Didn't you know that a hundred thousand workers are going to this area, where there are large craft, industrial, logistics units? Didn't you know that all these months they've joined together, conspired inside the buses, for which you don't do anything? You ordered and did some leasing contracts with inappropriate buses. And you come to this bill now to say that for short and timely licensing, there doesn't have to be an engineering study? And if there's any accident, if there's any insurance, who's taking responsibility? The Minister, I imagine. Don't tell us you have no responsibility. So when did you go to the big workplaces to knock on the door and see if there's a test? West Athens was invisible. They were invisible, Mr President, since you are there, the people who work. Because they depend on their wages. Because you have a social bias for them all. All you ran to do is take the Army out, like he's gonna come to solve something retrospectively that kind of presence. Even now, what are you doing? Lottery tests. The epidemiologists have come out today and they're telling you that this is a mistake. It cannot be how anyone feels, whether or not he is afraid, whether or not he perceives the danger or his right to enter the heir to get a test. That doesn't sound very scientific. That's not planning. Ladies and gentlemen, even cases of workers who should not be in the front line because they had underlying illnesses, by the way you formed the circulars, you put them at risk. Tragically, the two nurses who had a disease subject and ended up because you decided a few months ago that you don't have to have an underlying disease to be considered as being unable to be on the front line, but they have to be two. But that's all they cost. And even though we have come to understand that the priority, the urgency is to respond to the issues of the health crisis, you come here and introduce amendments which have little to do with this objective. In fact, why does Mr Brutsis have to decide on the trade unions how to do their electoral procedures? Who is it? Bonaparte? What is the concept of the autonomy of workers, social and collective negotiation? Will you tell me, when did you have that sensitivity and when did that Minister, who has linked his name to the hardest anti-corruption measures that Greece has ever known in the last decade? It extends the date of the minimum wage increase for a semester. Do you read some Biden? The first thing it does to open the way to the recovery of the American economy is to double the minimum wage. None of this! You want Sunday's work in some way you want to institutionalise, so that he gets stuck with what Mr Brutsi is up to, so that workers can work overtime and not get paid for these overtime. Do you remember what you were telling us in the election? You said that you were in favour of the 'five to one' rule. At some point you realized that this can't be done anywhere. In practice, however, as far as we are concerned, because of the fact that an organised health recruitment plan is not finally adopted, that is what you are doing. Because you continue to believe, after what we've been through nine months, that health money is a waste of money. We're talking about the money for the public health system. The other money that goes to private people is good to go! The private sector is also the priority here! Individuals were a priority, and in this constitutional coup made by the Minister of Education two days ago in the House, who came and equated the professional rights of the IEK with those of the universities. You've heard them from the country's chambers. Why did you do it? Why do you think there is the same level of study? Oh, no. You did it because it bothers you. You're obsessed with Article 16. Because you also want here to serve certain categories of entrepreneurs in the field of education at the moment. You do not look at how you can at this difficult moment support society. We have tabled a proposal to you, for example in the transport sector, where you have literally done so, first of all in Thessaloniki and then all the rest of Greece, canceling the competition for the seven hundred fifty buses. But why didn't you take a voucher measure through taxis for vulnerable groups? Travellers have been forced not to work on a third shift for too long. There's no business. Why couldn't they, with a low price, take people who need, those who are receiving dialysis, people who have to go to their doctors, to a service, the elderly, and have an income, and at the same time serve citizens and do not co-operate in these miserable public transport, which eventually worked as the biggest multiplier in the pandemic case? All you care about is dealing with everything with a logic of urgent assignments. So EASESY goes out and Mr. Pechas' bill about "IAN" tells you: "Don't overdo it." Here you reached the Great Walker of Athens to tell us that you did him for the pandemic case, so that the undocumented Mayor of Athens would come out and say: "Nothing is lost. These materials will be repositioned by the Centre in the region of Athens. It is a pilot project that cost a few million.’ We can spare these millions when we do not pay overtime for health when we refuse to put those who are heavy and unhealthy on their feet that are at risk every day melting on their feet. And in that sense, it is absolutely right that the amendment tabled by Mera25 here today, which is completely in our own minds. We had discussed it with the Minister on a timely question I had asked him. Do you know what's going on in this logistic dungeon right now? Do you know how they crush workers who work over 12 to 15 hours? They're melting! At least, let's show there's a sensitivity. But you don't have any sensitivity. Because if you were sensitive, you wouldn't put the Labour Inspectorate on ice, because you did that too. Ladies and gentlemen, he wants another look at things. It needs social sensitivity, not analgesia. It needs planning, which recognises the central role of the public sector and the exit from the crisis, both in the health sector and in the education sector. You can't do it while you're stuck in your ideoleptic reports, in your neoliberal reports. Be aware that we have entered a new phase, a dense phase of change and processes in society and very soon you will not recognise social reality on the basis of the results of your own policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u56	Your Honor, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u57	Only one request I would like to make a more general comment. The positions of the Parliamentary Representative have been expressed. If there's anything that's falsified, take the floor, because that's how there's gonna be a Ping Pong dialogue...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u58	Let me make two clarifications for a moment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u59	You have a minute. But don't open a word, because then I can't give the floor, if you say something and...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u60	I'll answer him if I have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u61	That's right. That's why there's a warm request. Parliamentary representatives express the positions of their Party each. From there on, the next or the next one will express his own. If we open this ping pong, we're not done. But here you have the floor, with the request that we do not create ping pong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, I will not be more than a minute. First of all, I would like to agree with the Parliamentary Representative of the Officerial Representation that all of us at this time must be thinking about the people who have lost the battle from this subtle enemy of the pandemic, to our more than four thousand fellow citizens. This figure alone shows that all of us need to step up our efforts. But you will allow me to make two remarks, because the representative has referred almost always to other bills that have been passed recently and to other cases that have remained open. With regard to Article 91, it does not oblige the Minister for Labour to postpone their conventions, etc. It gives the opportunity, due to the pandemic conditions, for their administrations to decide. It's clearly the article. As for the workers in the West Attica, we are certainly concerned about the spread. That is why emergency measures are also in place in this region. I do, however, think that the transport and mobility of workers in the many, indeed, industries and industries in the region there is not done by public transport, it is not done by public transport. The vast majority of them are by means of transport or IX cars. From that point on, I would say that at this time, because the pandemic is in a critical phase, to act as Heads of State and to accuse us of being retrospective, and we have not made clear proposals, as institutionalised, of the Civic Opposition, or, if you like, there is also a bilingualism, and we expect to see the performance of the measures to be critical, it does not offer as much as it could - despite the fact that many of the measures have agreed to - and what the institutional role of the Union is imposing. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Skourletis, of course you have the floor. But soon take care of it without ping pong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u65	Yes, Mr. President. I want to say this to my colleague: do you know what? It doesn't change at all the risk of transmitting the virus when you're conspiring on a public transport vehicle that regularly makes routes than on a bus in the company, which is just as full. When did you get there and run that kind of test? This is not the first time you have heard it from us. In fact, in particular, for the area with large Roma populations, since August we have tabled concrete proposals for a specific treatment for vulnerable populations, whether it concerns Roma or detainees, whether it concerns the various hot spots or the nursing homes. Is it accidental that on all these fronts you have the biggest problems? It is a lack of planning and a lack of political responsibility. In any case, I will tell you one last thing, in relation to the trade unions. Watch out, everyone realizes that this provision is from the wicked. It has been simulated in the educational area, where teachers have turned your back and did not participate in the selection procedures for the respective boards. And the Minister itself had to find out. Just 7% was involved. The union is not 'click', I am not 'follower'. It's participation first of all. And you know that very well. You're gonna need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u66	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u67	No, Mr. Buquoir. I'll beg you warmly. You said your opinion, the other opinion was said...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u69	Mr Katsotis, I'm having trouble with you. If your parliamentary representative is not here, but I have it as a start not to give the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, I am speaking as the rapporteur-general.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u71	You're a special speaker. Good, I give you the floor for a minute and I will break my oath.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, I would like to say on the point raised by the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, that Article 91 does not oblige, but gives the opportunity. Mr President, we have denounced here that this process of electronic voting has been called upon by a worker, who has nothing to do with the industry, nothing to do with the space, to vote electronically in elections to form power correlations. It does not, therefore, ensure that the elections are inconsistent - there has been a lot of discussion - and there is a whole process of monitoring by the employer and the state of the labour union, in order to be able to submit to the needs of implementing this policy. As far as company cars are concerned, there is a great responsibility for the government which does not carry out work-place tests, which does not implement the health measures indicated by the scientific community.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u73	After all, I call on Mr Gregoriadis to speak as the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25. Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my dear Parliamentary Representatives of the New Democracy - he is not listening to us now, but he will return, I imagine - I am very afraid that the problem is exactly the backwards from what you have to say. The problem is that most of the parties of the House, of the opposition, but above all - I am talking about my 'house', which I am entitled to - are quite clear and repeating last March that all the risk bells have been ringing. It warns you, informs you, helps you win the lost time, asking you two, three very simple things. The first thing he asks you to do - which you will not, because you do not want to do it, it seemed before the coronary - is to hire the doctors and the health workers missing from our National Health System. We don't say that, you know, we leftists are suddenly missing doctors and healthers from our national health system. The organigrams - I recall and repeat from this Step - both the governments of Samaras and Venizelos, and the various Pikrameni and other Prime Ministers who have passed through this country, without ever being elected by the Greek people, as well as the organograms of the next government that followed, by SYRIZA, are talking about immediate need - before a krone! - at least - at least - fifteen thousand. The Samara government's establishment plan says for fifteen thousand doctors and other sanitaries, SYRIZA says of more. So it is a given fact that we know very well what the problem is. The problem is that you want lame - wrong, at all costs, to privatize part of health and gradually, ultimately, all health - only the rich, eventually, to be treated in this place - and, therefore, it is a bad parentheses for you this pandemic. It kind of ruined your plans, as it had to be for the eyes of the world now dying, to further the National Health System somehow. However, you do it as little as you can. And also, you do without recruiting in any case doctors and health care permanently, because you know they will stay. And after they're staying, the National Health System will be more functional and so it'll be more difficult for you to slander it in order to privatize it. So we are warning you 11 months now that you finally have to hire permanent doctors and health workers, if you do not want in the future - where the future came - that people die not to say how! And now people die! The second thing we warn you about is a test, a test, a test. Now you also have our amendments, you also have drafts of our law for a national public body which will take a test on all Greeks, so that we know what is happening to us. There are other things we've told you about. You know it. So don't do it, how you're wondering or how the whole Opposition doesn't have any proposals. He has them, and you know them. And you know they're also functional, that they'll do good, but you avoid them, because they're not in the interest of the New Democracy. What are you doing instead? You systematically aim at people, such as our party leader, our secretary, I mean, Yiannis Varoufakis, for whom it was a definite crime and a terrible risk to public health, that he was returning, after the House where he came to carry out his parliamentary duties, at his home in Aegina. And even greater crime was that he was leaving to come here to perform his duties. On the contrary, no such danger exists for the visits of our Prime Minister's wife, who goes to Kalamata, Heraklion, to showcases of various famous Paris houses. All of this - give the currants - bring it up - apologise for the expression - they contain no danger. There is therefore a targeting of political leaders. Then you targeted the youth of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u75	Immunity didn't come.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u76	Hello, Mr. Pleari. Are you all right? To your beauty today. Then you targeted the new children of Greece. That's all it was. They were the kids who were going to the clubs to have fun, have a beer or dance with their love. Then, when you saw that not even that, you targeted all the Greeks, who suddenly, in eight months, from the most responsible species in Europe, became the most irresponsible race in Europe. Finally, you have naturally targeted the Members. A characteristic last example is that of my previous colleague from Mera25, Mrs Adamopoulou, who is trying to squeeze systematically, because he said what the stones know and what Mr Pafilis said, speaking on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece at the Conference of Presidents, where there are minutes and has been recorded - slowly, the eggs, I have said this ten thousand times - that is, that policemen pretend to be the anarchists and invade the teams of the 'blacks'. The stones know that, and all the Prime Ministers have said so since the post-Civilisation and all the leaders of the opposition officer. However, Mrs Adamopoulou had to be sneezed, as did Mera25. Ladies and gentlemen, the misrepresentation of your Government, the Government of New Democracy, as well as your excuse "to see how much worse SYRIZA was legislating" are extremely old data and have begun to tire us out. And be careful, I don't mean to get tired - I don't have such arrogant tendencies - we MPs, but the Greek people that we represent from this Step, among other things, who Greek people continue to maintain, in a persuasive sense of all the epidemiological, political and economic pressures, deprivations and prohibitions, the desire to operate our parliamentary system, democracy, institutions and laws of our state. To understand how rather than nature this situation begins in the way the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis legislated, I think it is enough to say that I, but also all those who were elected as me for the first time MPs in July 2019, after seventeen months of this experience of legitimisation, are sincerely at risk of believing that this is the case, that this is the case, we risk believing that this rather than a normal situation. Of the old, we learn that the bills once needed a month and a half from the day they were submitted, he says, until they were voted on. A month and a half, you know, when these bills were not sitting in a drawer to squeeze, it did not take a month and a half for that, but instead this month and a half were the subject of consultation with society and its representatives, they were discussed here among all political and party parties and representatives of the people. All this, of course, thanks to your government today, sounds like an extremely nice loser, unfortunately, forever parliamentary paradise. We also learn from the old parliamentarians that once the Members of the Greek Parliament could, he says, walk freely throughout our territory and from here the Stepma could say what they believed, without automatically lifting their parliamentary immunity, as was done with Mrs Adamopoulou and Mr Polakis the other day. Even if it seems unbelievable, the police used to say, he wasn't hitting the MPs, even if they happened to be communists. Great things used to happen! Then, of course, I would remind you that the gatherings, as we learn, were still allowed, while there was also university asylum in our higher education institutions. And it is possible, according to some scholars, that Exarches were still open to citizens from other regions and that pedestrian traffic within them was absolutely free. Do you remember when? When the theaters and the movies were still open during the summer months and there was almost every neighborhood and a band that gave a concert, when some employers still paid what? Overtime! Can you imagine? There was a time, recently, when some employers still accepted to pay overtime for the workers! Without wanting to be provocative, then, and with sympathy. - that there were still collective agreements! I know it's sounded very gragressive, terribly aggressive, to be abducted by this Step. But that's what the old people say. There were still collective agreements! At that time, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the sixteen Ministries, the forty-five "mast" and the sixty-two "lessons" would not dare go out of our House on Queen's Sofia Street! He would have been arrested before Rigillis for fraud, and even for fraud, Mr President, to the extent of a felony after a particularly high dome! Because, ladies and gentlemen, the title of Article 5, for example, of your bill, is really a total fraud. Listen to him: "Creation...", creation!, "...mobile special purpose health units... biological material services and direct testing of rapid molecular tests to detect cases of COVID -19". What do you guys think? I'm asking you, the neo-democratics! What do you think when you hear that? Let me tell you what I imagined, did I just read the word "creating"? That new mobile units are being created for carrying out a test in our homeland. That's what the title says. What's actually happening? No new mobile units are created. The only news your article brings is the extension of the validity of a few days, from 31 March 2021, of a procedural provision for mobile units, which we have already voted on - not us, but you, may also, I do not remember exactly why it is rather for the pandemic, so we may have voted for it together - the MIP already in place since 20 March 2020. I keep reading. Just below I read: ‘The EGE may, by way of derogation from all the existing national recruitment and public procurement provisions, enter into contracts for a) recruitment of staff with a fixed-term employment relationship for the provision of mobile units for the purpose of obtaining a sample of suspected coronary biological material and (b) hire of vehicles for the movement of mobile workshops and supplies of fuel for the use of such vehicles’. What would you understand from that? Can I tell you what I understood? That there will be new staff hires, new vehicle leases for the new mobile workshops of the new mobile unit. Perhaps, of course, you begin to imagine that these new hires and leases come to be summed up with the existing ones, huh? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In fact, it is simply, as we have said before, a simple three-month extension. Now that you have already begun to be suspicious of what I am telling you so long, if I tell you that Article 9 of the draft law is entitled "Enterprise of supplementary medical care staff", you may think of yourself as "do not hire any new staff, some extension will be again". And yes, you will be absolutely right, because Article 9 does in fact simply give us another extension. Look, we are not saying that these extensions are not useful or absolutely necessary. Some are and you do well and you give them away. What we are saying is that it is a horrifying falsification to call "simply extensions" the new recruitment of people and the creation of new mobile units. It's a political cause! I'm sorry about the term! In Article 2, we find another falsification, the so-called free coronary test. The contents, however, in all five paragraphs of Article, simply regulates matters relating to the registration and processing of personal data. The only mention of carrying out a free test is that the EGE will continue to set out the number of people controlled and ultimately recommends that the Government of New Democracy does not intend to proceed with the creation that requires a national public network operator of mass tests. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In order not to tire you, Mr President, I will leave a few articles. But I can't let Article 83 escape me. In this article, Mr President, the government, under the pretext of pandemic, extends - everyone listens to it! - for another seven months, until the end of July 2021, the procedures for fixing the new minimum wage and wage. Another seven months, then, where hundreds of thousands of workers, those, you know, are still dependent on their wages, paid for the minimum wage or wage, will not get them, will not get the slightest increase. That is why, of course, ladies and gentlemen, and Rule 83 is prioritised in my heart by all the articles in this bill, which we in no way intend to vote on. You have achieved, ladies and gentlemen, in a completely dystopic and greedy environment, such as that which closes our year, after almost a pandemic year and already a huge cost in human lives - the day we've deceived, we've overcome the deaths of America, depending on our population - not to have hired, you're atheless - and I'm sorry for the expression, and I mean the ministers and the Prime Minister! - not one, one - if anyone hears us out there - permanent doctor in our National Health System.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u77	You're making a mistake!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u78	You have brought and passed through the Greek Parliament with fast track procedures, completely deregulation for work bills, privatisations, brokerages in parasitic oligars, "Bull Banking Codes", the plan "HARAKLIS", you have deceived and deceived more and more every day that passes all parliamentary legislative procedures, you have established the most authoritarian and police state since the time of dictatorship! So let's slowly understand where you're going! Why, as the fifth memorandum comes by scoring off unemployment, which will reach the levels of the beginning of 2015 when you handed over the power, hundreds of thousands of paddles will come with him, horizontal reductions in wages, allowances, subsidiary and main pensions, which will be accompanied by at least fifty thousand first home auctions and an outburst in 2021 and, at the same time as you have converted all this inhumane crisis into an absolute opportunity for the parasitic oligarchs of our country, you know that soon, very soon, you will face the generalized popular reaction that can even reach the limits of the uprising, and that is why you are preparing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u79	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u80	I shall conclude, Mr President. Under the cloak of the pandemic you have tried unnecessarily and extremely cruel repression against citizens and MPs of the Polytechnic anniversary and the murder of Alexander Gregopoulou. You systematically tested the unnecessarily and completely uninvited repression in squares and narrowly, where only a few young children were gathered, at distances far greater than those you collected in their schools. You tried the demonization of young people because they just tended to have fun. You horribly attempted to load them on the second wave of pandemic, for which it was your fine and pointless spring in the summer. Then test the demonization of the whole society, "The idiosyncrasy of the Greek" is responsible for the last few weeks that do not come out of the extremely poor, inconsistent and unconnected, supposedly so-called lockdown of yours. You are now trying, at the moment we're talking, an absolutely inappropriate and uninvited repression in Elefsina, Aspropyrgos and Mandra, where workers and gypsies live, Roma. A year and a half now, instead of practicing your basic duties for the health and economic protection of citizens from this hell you are preparing for them, you are preparing to test the functioning of the mechanisms that you think will be politically saved, the mechanisms of police repression, but communication misinformation, the mechanisms of slow but stable slipping towards the diversion of our parliamentary democracy, the mechanism of state terrorism of citizens under the pretext of pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u81	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u82	I shall conclude with one sentence, Mr President. Listen, as much as you prepare yourself and whatever you try in this process of terrorisation and deception of our Greek people will ultimately not be enough. As you have seen him for years now as a herd that will follow his leader anyway, you ultimately underestimate the virtues of herds in general. The survival of the herd, I inform you, protects solidarity and cooperation permanently, protects mutual respect and groupness. And when a herd of herds of herds are so small that it no longer gives her room to live, then this herd explodes. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u83	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. A brief speech and to defend some of our ministry's provisions and to make some remarks that this House needs to hear. We are at the heart, at the peak, if you like, of the second wave worldwide with powerful countries, with extremely powerful health systems and world standards, at a dead end. Germany is closed and, while it has multiples of ICUs from the European average - I would remind you that we have received half of the European average - now that we are talking about problems in areas with availability of ICUs. The Netherlands is closed. In Great Britain, whose health system many years ago we tried to copy is also closed. Last time I looked at the cases, thirty to thirty-five thousand a day had passed. In Sweden 99% of Stockholm's SATs are occupied and the King of Sweden comes out and says that "we have failed" and health professionals agree with him, Sweden, please, the most advanced in terms of social benefits on the planet, I think, along with the Norwegians. At the same time, is there a corresponding economic crisis which means what? That all countries - and we obviously - have to produce much less wealth and borrow from their future. That is the reality we have to deal with. In this reality, there is before us the vaccine and the hope that this brings, but we have many difficult months ahead. And in order not to derail the situation, we need to be wise and sound and, above all, there is no party exploitation of the pandemic. The time is inappropriate for populism and party exploitation of the pandemic, which is extremely inappropriate. We now have a number of additional provisions in this bill. And it really needs an emergency legalisation process at this stage because reality is extraordinary, reality changes all the time and you see it from being forced to shut down flights to Great Britain before Christmas arrives, because there may be a dangerous mutation. The uncertainty this pandemic has requires huge adaptability and change and parliament. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Now, with regard to the provisions, it is some that had to be restored for many years now as some social injustices to the blind, who were very poorly unrecognised that when they had 80% blindness they obviously had a complete weakness both by the Greek state and by their earlier governments they considered, in relation to some markets, as if they were not blind when they are obviously, people have a weakness of sight. We also go to a very low VAT rate necessary for them. We are doing other, small, practical arrangements, such as that accountants and coronary taxpayers must give them a suspension in their activities, so that they too may not suffer consequences from having sickened, and many other small provisions, which improve things or restore injustices. In conclusion, I just want to say that this is not the time for populism. It may seem to some people that populism will pay off. I can inform you that it will not yield because people are feeling the enormous difficulty and the events that have brought these difficulties. In times of difficulty, most of all, citizens are addressing the forces that are serious and responsible. Hold this, you'll be useful in the next few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u85	Mr Viliardos has the floor, who makes use of the parliamentary representative's right from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Sweden made the mistake in the summer to dismantle all the additional ITH it had built, so it is precisely what today's problem is. Ladies and gentlemen, as we said in committee, the government tabled a multi-plier plan with a hundred sixty articles after midnight, with the urgency procedure, for a single debate on Friday, and for its vote on Monday, today. We stressed, moreover, that we do not agree with this procedure, that it is a coup d'état which effectively abolishes democratic control, whereas, as the vote on the bill is urgent, we have proposed that the House should remain open for as long as it is necessary for normal processing. Unfortunately, however, the government rejected our proposal, while explaining its position on the part of SYRIZA in the past. However, our answer was self-evident: Greece has therefore become a bankrupt German protector and a beggar, who has no right to veto the European Union, nor even to inadmissible sanctions in Turkey, how much more than to register the occupying loan - which is undeniable - on the balance sheet of the state. As we now respect Parliament and democracy, while we are ashamed of the government's extreme right-wing 'decide and order', we will remain in the plenary debate, but we will leave, that is to say, abstain from the vote, as a sign of a protest against the totalitarian, totalitarian, antidemocratic and unacceptable way the government operates in general. We won't tolerate it anymore. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] The Greek Solution, we, as a truly liberal and democratic party, do not want to have anything to do with these methods, once again stressing that our differences with the New Democracy are huge. Perhaps the most important thing is that we believe in a free, proud, decent and independent Greece, which will not be the heads of the Germans, while we are in favour of the national state and against uncontrolled globalisation, which reduces the wages of workers, deliberately turning societies into multiculturalism, so that they can be easily controlled. We are sure that the rich Greece can do it, that it is able to regain its national sovereignty, which has been delivered with the memoranda and especially with the PSI, but not with this mismanagement with which we will have a deficit in 2020 of EUR 20 billion. However, the modified budget deficit in the ninth month is less than EUR 18.3 billion. Really, Minister, how do you define the budgetary diversion? The 15% deficit? 20% deficit? Because you last told us that we have no budgetary diversion. As far as debt is concerned, how do you define it? The 250 percent? 300 percent? At least we should know exactly what you mean. The bill now and the minimum speaking time allowed by the urgency procedure - it is obvious that its aberrations will not be known, especially the photographic arrangements it contains - are again granted extensions of antiseptics and ethyl alcohol import licences to articles 18-20. Why, really, does the government insist on quarterly renewals despite our constant warnings? He thought the pandemic would end in three months? On what criteria did he believe it? Does he not understand how this facilitates speculation, since companies cannot plan their production and imports, at least for six months, when either they buy them cheaply or they cannot do their job properly? More generally, however, it is necessary to stop this overhaul, such as in the case of private laboratories in Article 27, for the requirements of ICMs in Article 32, for the derogations in various articles, for the recruitment of ICMs in Article 146 and others. The pandemic will not end until 31-3-2021, let alone when Greeks' information about vaccines is the worst possible. Suffice it to say that the Minister for Health, when tabling the amendment to the information campaign, escaped immediately afterwards, so that he did not answer the Members' questions, which, of course, have to be persuaded first. There was not even a committee of Parliament to inform Members of the vaccine, not politicians, when dozens of other committees were inaugurated on much less important issues. In Articles 1 to 4 now, regarding data security of the coronary test, what is happening with the contract that is said to have been secretly signed, as we will testify in the Minutes, to the PALANTIR company, which is related to the US secret services and to the violent enforcement of the law? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In Articles 33 and 34, do you give retroactive immunity to expenditure in the pandemic? What does it mean exactly? Is this even about a possible misappropriation? In some economic articles now, since time is minimal. Article 86 reintroduces the programme for workers on suspension, while Article 89 provides for workers in tourism with at least fifty days' pay. All of this believes - although with loan, unfortunately, it is not ours - but they substantiate the deadlocks of our economic and tourist model, while we wonder with the courage of the Minister of Tourism, who said that we have won the bet on the opening of tourism - if possible! -, when our revenues were demolished to 3.5 billion from 18.2 billion in 2019, while it is the main cause of the second wave of pandemic due to wrong software and not conduct enough border tests! Remaining in tourism, Article 103 gives an extension of the social tourism programme. What amount was ultimately allocated in 2020? Is anyone gonna let us know? However, we proposed an increase in the budget to EUR 300 million from EUR 100 million last year in 2020. With regard to Articles 60 to 63, we have mentioned dozens of times the excessive supply, the exodus of interest rates and, more generally, the shamefulness of the banks, while the Competition Committee has described them here in Parliament as a cartel, carrying out an investigation which will be completed in 2024. Do you really expect something to be done by transferring jurisdiction from the Bank of Greece, which is independent and already overseeing them? On the other hand, why are banks closing shops in the middle of the pandemic when the ELTA stores are required by Article 155 to remain open? Are banks not doing significant social work, especially in border regions, and for the elderly? The regulation of OTA debts under Article 136 is positive, but it is not enough for stores that have lost their turnover entirely because of the pandemic, especially for mass focus, which could operate at least abroad, as is the case in New York. We have to note here that GOLDMAN SACHS calculated a fall in the turnover there in New York, only 4% until the temperature fell below 7 degrees, as we will testify in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why, really, is the government so hateful of businesses, property owners, which imposes on them the subsidy of rents, especially on mass focus? Just 1,4 billion will form the retail turnover on Christmas from 3.5 billion in previous years - as we will also testify in the Minutes - while supermarkets not only are treasured, but they are resenting, both by customers and - above all - by their suppliers. They're dictating market prices to them. If that's possible! [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] From Article 58 now, where the funds available over 100 thousand euros are transferred to the bank of Greece, we conclude that the public funds are empty. Here literally reminds us in 2015 before the referendum and the third memorandum. With regard to Article 157, with a 50% reduction in the payment to DIGEA, with a similar tax relief for the amount lost, it is certainly another list of Pegasa. In any case, if there is money to support mass media, even to give the government a bonus, we would have no objection. But if they are at the expense of the country, such as the waste of 2004-2009, or if the same party goes bankrupt again, like 2012, our objections are certainly very great, though, since, after Greece's mortgage with the PSI, any need for new loan contracts will be linked to national exchanges, territorial or sea dominance, with the delivery of some islands or anything else that Germany requires. In addition, the systemic press is subsidised, as transport costs are covered by Article 66, the ARGOS agency, i.e. to be specific, are covered. But if nothing else, should the local press also be supported, such as the 'DIGEA' premium for systemic media help locals, who are selectively in favour of the additional strict supervision of the Television Council? In relation to Rule 122 and the new extension for the costs of building the torpedoes at Elefsina Shipyards, I would like to say that the same thing happened last year, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have to be in favour of this, but the programme has long been out of its original budget. When will it be over? Shouldn't we know? The Elefsina shipyards would not be transferred to the American "ONEX"? Is there any appeals involved, as we read? What is going on with the Scaramaga shipyards, both of which are really embarrassing offers for 15 million and 1 million euros? Article 123 gives ECU 13.7 million for submarine equipment, with which we can also agree, although we think that the Ministry of Defence has now lost control. In conclusion, I would like to say that the report by the General Accounting Office of the State does not adequately quantify the cost of the bill, but only refers to some of its costs selectively, including another extension to structures of illegal immigrants in hundreds of fifty people for four months, costing 849 000 euros. How long have these extensions been true? With regard to the establishment of mental health units, in accordance with Article 48, it refers to the estimated cost of 500,000 euros, but not how much it will work - we would like to know - while the mental health of the Greeks has deteriorated to a terrible extent, since the pandemic and the new collapse of our economy followed the ten-year recession, unique in world history, has never been in times of peace. Finally, it would have to quantify at least the costs of the aid to land transport such as the CCEE and the Italian 'TRAINOSE', which, under Article 111, gives the Minister a white authorisation to determine. Thank you very much, I wish Merry Christmas and happy the new year for all and for all, with faith in our country and its potential, since it is sufficient to govern itself properly not only to escape the crisis, but indeed to make a real effort to return to their homeland the six hundred thousand young people who have left, who have literally been expelled, exiled abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The speech will now be made by the State Secretary for Health, Mr Raptis, in order to place it on articles relating to it and related to its area of responsibility. Then there will be two colleagues, to go to the list sooner or later, Mrs Zoe Makri from New Democracy and Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, under the assumption that there will not be a political leader in the Chamber asking for the floor, which she will be entitled to. Mrs. Rapt, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that for several years the critical area of mental health has been on the margins of public policy. But from now on, this changes, with initiatives aimed at modernising and strengthening the mental health services system in the country. The provisions relating to the mental health sector, like the other provisions of the bill, have been invoked as they come to cover serious shortcomings in the services provided for young people. These are reforms under discussion by the previous government and are now mature to legislate. The protracted duration of the pandemic has led to the need to provide these mental health services to the new generation, because our aim is to ensure that every young person has an opportunity to provide effective medical care and a smooth integration into his social and professional life. With Article 48 of the draft legislation at issue, we are establishing a new form of mental health units, early intervention units in psychosis. Timely intervention in psychosis is a modern medical service aimed at detecting and treating symptoms of psychotic disorders in their initial stage, usually present in adolescent and young age. The aim is to prevent relapse and to provide effective treatment of mental illness. This is a service provided at community level, and this is consistent with our country's consistent policy of decontamination in mental health. For example, the research of Psychiatric Clinic at the University of Ioannina in 2013 showed that about three thousand two thousand new people are experiencing mental spectrum disturbances per year on the ground for the first time. It is therefore clear that a shift is needed to prevent the development of such a mental illness for young people. Unfortunately, most young people experience the first psychotic episode sooner or later and discontinue contact with their social and educational environment. In fact, when mental illness strikes at such a vulnerable period of life, it promotes the dissolution of a normal development of the young man towards adult life. Furthermore, this is a method which is also economically beneficial to the country, because the development of a network of early intervention services will lead to a significant reduction in the burden on mental health services focused on hospitalisation and reintegration, with a corresponding reduction in the costs involved. Timely intervention has been established in the health systems of a large number of developed countries, such as Denmark, Norway, the United Kingdom and the United States, and this positive experience of these services has led the World Health Organisation to sign a declaration with the Early Psychosis Union in support of the implementation of such programmes worldwide. Today, by this regulation, we are enabling structures such as public hospitals, university hospitals, university research institutes for mental health, community mental health centres and private legal persons to develop early intervention units for psychosis. Now, in the same direction, in order to improve the mental health services aimed at young people, the provision of Article 49 is also in place, allowing schools and departments of the country's higher education institutions to set up day-to-day centres for the provision of psychological and social support services to the student population. Number of studies - both in the Greek area and internationally - demonstrates that the development of mental health problems for students is on a growing path, both in terms of their frequency and degree of severity. Moreover, the uncertainty created by pandemic and lockdown for the future is another presumptuous factor for the mental health of young people struggling through their studies for a better tomorrow. The aim of this initiative is to ensure that the student population of the country is effectively supported, with qualified psychiatrists, psychologists and social workers, who will be recruited by the university for mental health problems, learning difficulties, depression, anxiety and addictions that the population faces. Finally, Article 50 seeks to provide an immediate solution to the inability to establish and operate the sectoral scientific committees of mental health in Greece. Those committees shall, in accordance with the legislation, exercise critical responsibilities for the smooth functioning of the mental health services system in the country as, inter alia, they supervise the functioning of mental health services, ensure their interconnection with other primary care services, approve organised rehabilitation programmes for patients in mental health establishments, as well as approve the extension of the patient care in those establishments. However, the law of 2017 changed the way it was formed and became much more complicated. In particular, five committees became eleven members, with the result that six members were elected between psychiatrists and pediatricians in the mental health sector concerned. This reform has resulted in almost impossible creation in many areas of the country, thus making it immediate and necessary to carry out the above-mentioned key responsibilities properly, which so far cannot be exercised and patients remain in the air in the structures and psychiatric care programmes throughout the country. Therefore, by means of the established provision, it is ensured that these competences are exercised without stumbling and that the system of providing mental health services is functioning smoothly. Ladies and gentlemen, the increased need for psychosocial support from the pandemic makes the organisation and function of the pandemic as fast as possible urgent. It is absolutely necessary to provide proper support to our fellow citizens and above all to our children, to give them a real opportunity to life and development, both during the pandemic and after it has come out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, too. I shall now give the floor, as I have already said, to Mrs Zetta Makri, a Member of the New Democracy. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my position, I would like to point out that the primary concern of the Government and the Ministry of Health - and I believe all of us - is that Greek citizens should be the winners of the consequences of this sweeping pandemic. After I sincerely condone the families who grieve victims, I would like to wish everyone who gives the battle of life to intensive care units, to hospitals in these holy days, to win the battle and return soon to their families. I must also congratulate and warmly thank the medical and nursing staff, who stand by self-depression and with a great deal of professional competence and ethos beside the nurses and responds sharply to their duty. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the attitude of the officer - and not just - is not surprising. Systemically and irresponsibly, even at this difficult time - which requires the social and political consensus of all of us to take relief measures for citizens, so that the consequences of the second wave of the health crisis can be dealt with as much as possible - the argument put forward by the Department of Health is only exhausted for reasons of communication in the characterisation of the process as an emergency and never before in the essence of the specific draft law of the Ministry of Health. It is wondered whether the provisions of the Ministry of Health relating to already adopted regulations relating to the introduction of coronary containment measures and the extension and extension of the regulatory scope until 31-3-2021 are necessary. It asks whether provisions such as the extension to the conditions of use of rapid molecular tests, the actions of the mobile groups of special purpose health, the procedure for the granting of medicinal products other than approved indications for CIVID patients, the procedure for sending medicinal products to vulnerable groups, the possibility of supplying health services at home and distance from doctors of the EEAS and from primary health care units, the possibility of recruitment and movement of subsidiary medical and nursing personnel is directly implemented or not. Or, as I have heard a moment ago, there is a comment on any mismatch of titles and contents and not on the contents of the regulation itself. It is regrettable, ladies and gentlemen, that - if anything - it does not honour the opposition at such critical times and situations to resort to false arguments of this type, to cover not only its political poverty, but above all its obvious difficulty and inability to support the legitimate provisions of this particular exceptional legislative initiative. And the opposition does not only react to the provisions relating to public health, but also reacts to the others, which regulate the harmonisation of the daily practice of ministries with the criticality of the context. I mention, for example, the provisions on speeding up the awarding of pensions, the strengthening of public transport, the settlement of debts by the local authorities, the extension of one year of public sector publications and communications in the regional press, the submission of an over-adjusted rate of 5% of the 13% so far intended to help disabled people - the Minister has just made a concrete and more extensive position on this - and the regulation on the incompatibility and duty-free use of aid paid to farmers, fishermen, farmers and farmers, in the context of actions to address the effects of COVID -19 in the primary sector. And, of course, it follows the golden rule of silence about those provisions that finally correct the practice of poor legislation, in which the SYRIZA - Independent Greeks had been served uninterruptedly. I will dwell on Article 121 of this legislative initiative and wish to express my thanks publicly to the Minister of National Defence, Mr Panagiotopoulos, for the consistency, openness and respect of his commitment, both to me and to many other colleagues, who have also been personally concerned with this issue. In its intervention the serious problem of the administrative restoration of the PSCs in 1990 is resolved and an end to their unequal and unjust treatment resulting from the application of Article 37 of Law 4494/2017. I believe that the Minister with the same consistency and care will go to legislation in similar cases of other graduates, due to equality and justice, and I also hope and hope that he will resolve the issue with those who have been wronged by the application of Article 32 of Law 4609/2019, because this article favours volunteers and volunteers who have been permanently resident and who can and are being promoted to the extent of the major graduates at the expense of PSY, thereby perpetuating the sense of fair treatment of officials in the military, and this is the result of administrative actions and procedures. I would also like to mention the importance of the provisions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which facilitate the implementation of the commitments made by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to speed up the procedures for the clearing and awarding of outstanding pensions, by strengthening the logistical infrastructure of the ECA, but above all by enabling the services to make use of any legal means, by internal movement, even by retiring from legal means, all its experienced human resources, which has worked in recent years for the issue of pensions. I would also like to say that, as far as I have understood, the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Brutsi, is positive in extending this provision and for workers in the same category of the OAS, who are currently raising a great deal of weight for the implementation of employment and training programmes. Please warmly see this positive. As far as I am concerned, it has already been dealt with. I also welcome Mr Stelios Petsa's initiative to give a year's breath to the regional press, allowing public bodies' publications and posts to continue. I would ask him, however, to give more courage to consider the time horizon of this extension, so that companies in the regional press have the right time to plan and modernise them, so that they can continue their work uninterruptedly after the end of the crisis. And I assure you that the vast majority of them are doing their job very well. Similarly, the provisions of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, which were relief for the private taxi and CBEL sector, which provide for the extension of one year of the age and traffic limits of vehicles, as well as for the necessary continuation of measures to support inland passenger transport, as well as in the first Lockdown, since the movement of citizens was significantly reduced. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today reflects the requirements of this time-frame for the relief of citizens from the consequences of the pandemic, but also for the creation of those conditions and conditions necessary for returning to normality. There is no doubt that these provisions as a whole should be a field of social consensus, because there is already a social consensus. The political forces must therefore receive the message of this large majority of society, which is facing this situation seriously, responsibly, mature, empathy, adapt to the new requirements, but also change the way they are politicizing. Before the Minister, Mr Skylakakis, said that there is no room for populism and no one applauds him by the citizens. The government will continue to take the measures it needs with courage and responsibility to support citizens, businesses and workers. Merry Christmas! Happy holidays to everyone! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, too. Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou has the floor. After you, the Minister of Labour, Mr. Brutsi, will speak to everyone. I said that all this under the cult that he will not ask for the floor in the middle of a political leader, who will take him immediately. Here you go, Mrs. Papanatsiou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are called upon to discuss a bill in the form of urgency, pretext of pandemic. It is a bill, however, which contains dozens of extra provisions, without pandemic and no urgency. As a matter of urgency, you do not consider the end of cleaning contracts to the Ministry of Finance in the middle of the second wave, which is why you did not include any regulation. Unless we regard it as a matter of urgency the reduction in the taxation of profits from gambling in a time of pandemic and economic collapse. This is where you need to make a clarification. We see an addition to the above article. Part of the revenue from the change you made will be directed by ministerial decision to groups. First, why with a ministerial decision? And, secondly, what do you mean by teams? Who are you planning to fruit this gift? The OEMs? The amateurs? Who? You bring a provision that, as we learn, has been disturbed both in the Greek market and abroad. Without talking to anyone, you bring her through the second part I mentioned before. You have transformed the parliamentary procedure into regularity, with fast track procedures, reducing the substance and value of dialogue and parliamentaryism. You show no sign of consciousness and basic sensitivity to society. The Minister of Development, Mr. Georgiadis, from the Step of the House, told us ironically that it is a lie that Greek businessmen are crying about their economic destruction, since polls show the New Democracy ahead. You're projecting a specific cynicism that we've never seen before in this country. Our country is a champion in almost all the negative records, from the recession that is recorded in historically high to the pandemic and the people who die every day. You insist on telling us everything's going well, that you had a plan. You want to convince us that the citizens of the country and the opposition live in a parallel universe, whereas only you, the Parliamentary Group and the Government of New Democracy, are aware of the reality. You have forgotten diligently that pandemic and economy are inextricably linked. You have forgotten that work and health are social rights. One and a half months we've been in Lockdown and every week we've been learning about new municipalities in the red, with a recent West Attica example, where you've imposed tougher measures. Is it, you say, the citizens who do not comply and I would like to ask you: Is it the citizens who have not carried out more tests, which you have not carried out an extensive sampling plan? Is it the citizens that the tests are not prescribing? Is it because you didn't take any measures to control the pandemic at the workplace and the factories? Is it the citizens who test them in the workplace who have placed them in the Employers' Friendship? Are they to blame for the citizens you do not protect if they are ill and forced to be suspended or, worse still, made redundant? And finally, gentlemen, are the citizens to blame for everything that is going on in this country, for the economy, for the pandemic, for the marginal foreign policy? You are operating without a plan with the logic of "seeing and doing", while making the most of the pandemic to implement your extreme policies. You bring a provision setting zero VAT on vaccines and products against the pandemic, which I had asked you to put to the vote in my speech on the budget. We welcome this regulation and consider it to be a promotional one. But you are also bringing in a provision that reduces the taxation of profits from gambling. I wonder: At a time when our country is in the cyclone of pandemic and economic collapse, how can it be your priority to reduce taxation on these profits? What's he hiding? In 2014 you brought it back and withdrew it. You also bring a provision requested by the Greek Chamber of Economics, which freezes the tax deadlines for a short period, not if the accountant has a coronary disease, but if he is ill and hospitalized. Have you seen, masters of the government, how is a man suffering from a coronary if he can work properly and meet his deadlines and obligations? In fact, we do not understand your logic at all and you obviously do not understand its society and its needs at all. Unfortunately for you, however, in whatever way you are trying to dress up your failure, the truth is not hidden. You show your hard neoliberal ideological character, the same ideological character that led us to bankruptcy, which enclosed us in the memorials, which kneeled society and which is now coming to do exactly the same, serving once again the interests of a few and a mighty ones. I wish everyone a good holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u93	And we wish you, on behalf of all my fellow Members, a merry Christmas. The Minister for Labour, Mr Brutsi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Labour participates in the specific legislation of the Ministry of Health with many provisions, which are positive, beneficial to workers, the unemployed and the retired. I would like, however, on the occasion of my position today, to announce that, as we have committed ourselves, with all due respect and predominance to what is at the core of our ideology and our policy, namely the worker, we are currently paying sixty thousand four hundred and thirty-four cases of beneficiaries of the Christmas gift. I say this again, as we were committed to the timetable we set ourselves. It is paid on December 21st, which is the date of the obligation to pay the Christmas gift and the private. And businesses are now obliged to pay the Christmas gift to employees for the period they have worked, calculated at the level of the actual salary they have paid. Likewise, the state pays this particular Christmas gift today, as it should. Secondly, by closing time, I must mention - because these are issues which we have to raise here, in the House - and I should like to pay great thanks to the officials of the Ministry of Labour as a whole, but especially to those who have been behind the information system of 'ERGANI', a system which has contributed the greatest, especially now in the pandemic period in our country. Let's just think that four million five thousand five thousand five hundred and fifteen workers have been paid for by ERGAN and we have paid over EUR 2.7 billion by the Ministry of Labour. Just imagine what the country would be like without the "ERGANI", where the series of workers would be in order to obtain the benefits we have given, a "ERGANI" which will be upgraded even further through the bill that will come to Parliament in 2021. We will move on, upgrading it to 'ERGANI II', moving on to the great innovation, which does not exist either in Europe, in the digital time and in the worker's card. They are reforms that are important for the country, which are basically both in favour of workers and in favour of businesses. Mostly, however, it is in favour of the Greek economy, which we are all interested in going well, because we all get and have a share of it. There are several provisions in this bill. I will mention some who are particularly interested. We are reducing and extending the reduction from a hundred to fifty the so-called trademarks for the foundation of the unemployment benefit - apart from food and tourism, which is already the law of the State - to businesses that are seasonal. It's thousands of workers. The request came from Members of the New Democracy of Northern Greece and was adopted by the Ministry of Labour. Thousands of workers will receive the unemployment benefit for them. Secondly, by means of a provision of a law which - I believe - as a whole - turns the offence of an employer or businessman into a criminal offence to blackmail or ask the worker, at the time of being suspended, to be in the workplace or to claim from this amount of special purpose compensation. Six months in prison, 5,000 euros fine. Thirdly, along with the 'transit' and I believe that the wishes of the entire House to the Minister of Shipping Yiannis Placiotakis, there is a provision concerning our seafarers and I, as a Cycladic and Aegeanian, have to mention it. Special care for the coastline of EUR 800 and EUR 534 respectively for the months November and December, for our seafarers, through the special purpose subsidy, through the suspensions on Greek coastline. Also, for the world of culture and art we open the platform of "ERGANI", the Support Act - this platform - and we welcome requests from the world of culture and art for November and December until January 10, 2021. Finally, we are dealing with an issue involving about two hundred seventy-seven workers. After fourteen years of work hostage in the OAED and e - EFKA, end their suffering forever and acquire equal working rights in the workplaces that have been in the past period. Ladies and gentlemen, these are basic provisions that we are bringing to the bill, ending in 2020, to rebuild certain issues that were outstanding, to support workers, unemployed and the labour market as a whole. The second section concerns what we were committed to and which is the great challenge for 2021, for me personally and for the Ministry of Labour as a whole. It is the great sport that we want to achieve in 2021 in terms of a pathogen of fifty whole years, which never dared any government to deal with. We want to pay tribute to the pensions that the Greek state owes to pensioners, when they complete their working life, a pathetic many decades ago. I would therefore like to explain how and how the plan are to be achieved. With an act and organisational reconstruction of the new e-VISA created in February 2020, within a specific plan and framework of organisational reconstruction and organisation, as well as efforts that are present and appear to be imprinted under the provisions of this law. First of all, to make a few things clear, which one deserves to know, to understand the project. Could the Greeks' outstanding pensions be attributed, as has been shaped over the last fifty years? Answer: No. On one condition alone, there would have been the digital system “ITLAS”. The project we are saying today - and from a parliamentary step, as a Minister for Labour, I say that we will deal with it - is only because the digital pension 'ATLAS' was created, otherwise it could not be done. What does that mean? That the new pensions that come out, in the timetable we have set - already in the case of widow and peasant pensions come out in a few seconds - will evolve until December 2021 in the other professional categories. Once the tank of the pendulum does not fill, the human potential with the reconstruction we are doing and the incentives we give will, in 2021, make up these outstanding pension obligations. Simple as that! What are we looking for now? We seek through the organisational redesign of e-VENA to speed up our pace. I am also obliged to the House and to everyone's knowledge to give, my friend, Minister of Health, as you fight in your own space, so I do in my own place, the Ministry of Labour, some things that are worthwhile. The figures I give you are no longer just budgetary elements. Undoubtedly, if we continued in this House to ask the other party what the outstanding pensions are, who applied for retirement, that would be a logic that would have referred to in the past. We solved it. The special report "ATLAS" was published every month, through which no party and no Member will ever ask again what the outstanding pensions and pensions are. They're public every month until the 25th of next month and it's about the previous month. On this basis, every Member and every citizen and pensioner will know how the pensions of the Greeks go forward. So I mention some elements that are worthwhile. I would like to make a reference to the credibility of the minister speaking today on what he is committed to before the House. In 2013, I faced the Ministry of Labour the following outrageous as a situation. No one knew how many pensioners in Greece, how many pensions we pay and what we pay monthly. No one knew. It was a fragmented system, full of special regimes, which were incompatible with each other and the Minister never knew. On June 1, 2013, as Minister, I delivered to the Greek people the full mapping of the insurance system, with the "ELIOS" system, which since then has been constantly published and uninterruptedly. I am presenting in the Minutes the 'HIOS' system which SYRIZA ceased unnecessarily for two years and now we are aware of its mapping. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The only thing that existed was to know the outstanding pensions, for which Mrs Ahtsioglu did not answer me for four and a half years. I am also tabling the 'ATLAS' system and the special report. Next week the second issue will come out. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And now we're going to the point of the project. We've had fifty years of passionateness. I read: “In 2019, a hundred twenty-three thousand trags were attributed to twenty-four main pensions. In 2020, with census data, a hundred and sixty thousand were attributed until the end of December.’. We break every record in the insurance history and watch out! - in the pandemic. In front of the Governor of e-FCA, the Deputy Governors, the human resources attributed in 2020 a hundred and sixty thousand major pensions. We paid EUR 190 million more than the budget in the state budget for outstanding pensions. And now we're going to the 2021 project. In 2021, ladies and gentlemen, the objective is from 24,830,000,000, to go to 25,451,000,000. In other words, we have set aside EUR 626 million more in 2021 for the main pensions. In the 2020 record, which has no precedent in the history of the insurance company with sixty thousand, in 2021 we predict a 30% increase. We'll break the 200 thousand dam. We'll give today's hundreds of sixty thousand time-limits that appear today in 2021. And here ends the pathogen and the pathogens are over, not because we are simply permanently redesigning the e-Efka, which was in our plan planned, but why there is "ATLAS". I repeat that, if there were no digital pension “ATLAS”, we would never defeat the pathogen of fifty years. So the government of Mr.Mitsotakis will be the first government to solve this great problem of decades, 50 years and over 2021. I would like to mention specifically for farmers something that is a commitment. The priority of the insurance reform under Law 4670/2020 was the free categories. By the way, I am announcing to the House that, as the platform opens today, as insurance is no longer tax, since today, free professionals - doctors, lawyers, engineers, all self-employed and farmers - can freely choose the accusation they want. Today we put on the new year, as we planned, the new category of insurance that they choose freely. Secondly, in insurance reform we had made a privileged treatment for the rural world. We have given very favourable insurance contributions. Our government's priority over time has always been the world of the farm, the farmer, the farmer and the shepherd. We acted first with the insurance reform. The second act proved to be the following. In the first digital pension "ATLAS" we chose outside the widow's pension, as the most sensitive, and farmers receive pension in a few seconds, which they take today. The third commitment today from a Step of Parliament is that in 2021 we give the thirty-five thousand outstanding pensions of farmers, which come from the past, all attributed by the end of April 2021. So our country's farmers are the most favoured of this government and with our own insurance reform of Law 4670/2020 and with the digital pension 'ATLAS', but also because we will also solve the problem of outstanding pensions, first of all, farmers. These are the thoughts, these are the ideas, and that is our plan, a plan that is realistic, effective and will be done in 2021. I repeat. 2020 for us at the Ministry of Labour was the year of 'ERGAN', which without it we could not support the labour market, workers and businesses. In 2021 it will be the year of eFKA and the digital pension "ITLAS". Thank you very much. Happy birthday to everyone and everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Minister. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Kegeroglu, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, if you did not know the reality, you might even believe Mr Brutsi. I have a special chapter on what he said. I will, however, begin positively. In fact, there are many questions of political and ideological separating us, both with the government and with other political forces. However, the national and major issues of the country must unite us, as must the health of the citizens in this difficult period. To the citizens' question at this time who will listen - politicians, journalists, journalists or politicians? - for vaccination and methods, we respond clearly: your scientists and your personal doctor. The Change Movement was placed positive, based on the valid and institutional view of scientists. On this basis, we ask citizens to be placed and treated. The critical period of pandemic requires maximum responsibility, vigilance, efficiency, both by the government and the system of governance and by all political forces. The Government, but also the Civic Opposition, often do not always stand up to the circumstances, especially when they show that they treat citizens more as voters. The Movement of Change in this difficult period of pandemic considers citizens people and members of a society that experiences the difficult. Since the first moment, which was 20 January 2020 for us, we have been responsible. We are controlling the government and, at the same time, we are proposing, with the aim of dealing with the pandemic and its consequences, with an analysis of the situation, taking into account scientific, economic and social data, with the design, with the different scenarios of developments, but always with the focus of man and his life. Decisions and actions, valid scientific and effective social initiatives. The evaluation of the results and the use of experience from the first phase is a key aspect of a successful outcome of this effort. Instead, the government and almost all the ministries have a contradictory picture. And the image of the effort and the image of the reassurance. At times, even after the reassurance, the cries of the deadlock come: 'We can't make it. Sometimes inertia and often denial of necessary decisions to protect and prevent, but also to address the consequences of the pandemic. Other times sloppy, leading to amendments of laws within a few days, as was done by the law of the environment. Today we have amendments to the law passed last week. Another precursor and selective accelerating of decisions and arrangements that make "eye" with their photography. A leading example is the Kerameus amendment, which keeps TEIs on the margin and integrates college graduates on equal footing with the Polytechnic. Even necessary regulations and services shall be promoted by stopping transparency and permanentisation of 'exceptional'. We are well aware of what is going on in the tenders for a limited number of suppliers or service providers called. Accidentally, they include mostly friends and sometimes no unscrupulous debris. But it's not the time. I'll see you later. The sixty-sixth amendment bill we are discussing three seconds for each article illustrates the reality and the feasibility of government behaviour. 'Roller' in the necessary decisions by the Government, 'lady' in the arrangements, the withdrawal of transparency and 'exceptional'. Arrangements needed for some time have come at the last minute, while the critical time for their implementation has passed. Proposals we have tabled many months ago, even since the beginning of the government's term of office and during the pandemic, reject them, others silently, others with insult. And since it sees problems growing, it brings them up, most of the time, too late, but damage has already been caused, at a high social and economic cost. First theme: Exploration of mass tests. Mrs. Gennimata has long insisted on the need for mass tests and you're deaf. Now you're bringing in the setup. Welcome! However, if you had adopted our proposal on time, we would have had a lot of chance of preventing negative developments in Northern Greece, Attica and the second lockdown. The same behavior is shown for the fulfilment of all health conditions for safe opening. Secondly, regarding the strengthening of the National Health System and its staff, you are acting for permanent staff notices, but also for the inclusion of contract staff and subsidiary staff in the ESS, the social care system and all social structures. It is necessary to tackle the pandemic effectively, but also to have the necessary time for the procedures with the supervision of the IAS to integrate them into the permanent human resources. You are bringing arrangements for extensions of three months, with no prospect of contracts. The prospect is that there must be a great prolongation, so that all the necessary steps can be taken within this time. The third question is to tackle the problem of outstanding pensions. We have tabled a comprehensive proposal for a year and a half, Mr Brutsi. Now it seems that the myth of the digital system is falling apart, not for new pensions, which can be applied after digitisation - which is now going on, as it had stopped the previous period from the previous government - but for the extradition of outstanding pensions. So the problem is not decades. The problem began to grow from 2011-2012 and then its evolution in recent times is dramatic. Listen. From a hundred and thirteen thousand four hundred seventeen that were the outstanding main pensions in March 2019 - not to say the intermediate - today is a hundred seventy-three thousand. Furthermore, we have a hundred and twenty thousand outstanding ancillarys and sixty thousand singles. He collapsed all of what you were telling us. And now you come to bring in a regulation that we proposed to you a year and a half ago, to make use of all the experienced human resources of the IKA, all the insurance funds, the General Accounting Office of the State, for the issue of pensions. And I remember very well when you asked if you would accept our proposal, you replied: 'These are outdated, Mr Kegeroglu.' Not to mention the other things you told us. So you are bringing the regulation today and you do not have the courage to say a word, like 'yes', incorrectly. Let me say a word that I'retrospectively acknowledge the correctness of this proposal and should have implemented it for a long time'. The eight-month contracts, then, provide that they will be enough to solve the problem. Eight months, you say, there are enough. So it would have been solved. That's not eight months. Our figures say it takes a contract of at least one year. Please add for eight months with optional renewal for another four. You're gonna need it. You'll have us reset. Remember that. Support for unemployed and workers. How many questions, proposals and amendments have we submitted to you to support workers and the unemployed? Every one of you has a lack of regulations that deal with the problem on a case-by-case basis. Smooth and incomplete is the current regulation for seasonal workers. We have tabled two amendments to you. One clarifies which companies are considered to be seasonal and how the issue of seasonal operations must be resolved. But we have also tabled an overall amendment. What do we say, in simple words? Any unemployed person who is not, for any formal reason, entitled to a regular unemployment allowance, a seasonal worker's allowance, a long-term unemployed person's allowance and is not included in any programme of support from the Ministry of Labour, shall be entitled to a three-month unemployment benefit. Depending on developments, you can also see the possibility of the quarterly unemployment subsidy being extended. So we will have all the unemployed in support for this critical period. Fifth theme: we are putting you in a comprehensive proposal for a secure opening-up of the market and achieving the health requirements and I think you should, at least after the latest developments, deal with it. We are talking about the region, per city, safe operation of businesses without any rush, but with a hurry to fulfil the health requirements. Sixth theme: For some time now we have tabled a comprehensive proposal to support regional and local means of labour subsidy, accounting for 30% of advertising expenditure on them, with a reduction in overtaxation. You brought the regulation on the extension of the obligation of state publications only for a year, of course - we proposed that it be a start at least two years - and that 50% of the aid be paid to DIGEA by February. We will vote on them, but it is not enough. Assistance for the national transfer of newspapers is correct. You should also see, at regional level, the corresponding assistance. Seventh issue, which concerns farmers: Instead of essential support measures, you have cut the single payment by 10% in the past few days. You are bringing in a necessary arrangement for the irreversible, which you admit is the difficult economic situation in which they are in, but you do not do anything about it. The inability of the government is characteristic of the management of the transferred land workers. I am not talking about miserable health treatment, but about social treatment. Listen. Some fifty thousand land workers have been transferred from May and few exceptions have not yet been granted to them. I'm filing Mr. Pittsili's paper, which said that he had to automatically take VAT and AMKA from the Ministry of Labour. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Today two and a half million days are uninsured. Land workers are uninsured for two and a half million days. The public does not collect taxes and levies and farmers who are concerned are at risk of super-private fines and a lack of documentary labour costs. We have tabled an amendment which resolves the matter. Look at her, Mr. Brutsi. See it from the Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u97	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u98	I'll be done. I am briefly referring to the other amendments entitled: the award to workers and their families of invalidity and death pensions made at work or because of it by COVID -19. Integration into the list of heavy and unhealthy people in the first line. We've talked many times about it. We are tabling the amendment for the eleventh time. Transfers of students who lost parents or parents due to COVID -19. Basis of the right to full and reduced old-age pension of insured women of the former IKA. Aid for doctors serving in island sanitary units or in border, barren and problematic areas. Improve bus regulation, transport and workers in all transport operators. It's right to set up. He needs improvement. We have tabled an improvement amendment. Granting regular unemployment subsidies - I have already mentioned - for three months to everyone, so that nobody will stay behind. The Change Movement rejects the bad legalization of all three seconds for each article. Mr. Buras did it three and a half seconds, and I thank him for that. We will not consent to the withdrawal of transparency and the repression of good public money management, and we will not vote on the relevant provisions. We are voting for the arrangements for the debts to the municipalities, which are also our proposal, but also for the arrangements for the Armed Forces, and in particular for the arrangements for officials in the '90s series, and of course we are waiting to extend the arrangements for the '91s and '92s series. Finally, we are voting for all the provisions which give the necessary extensions due to pandemic, even those which should be larger and which are lame, and of course all the measures to support them, even if they are inadequate, in order to address the economic and social consequences. We demand consideration for the adoption of our amendments. Let the government tell us about each of them because it is not accepted, since they are all giving sustainable solutions to the accumulated problems that have so far not been given by the government. Finally, I am presenting you with a document from the ESDC, which, while in a good dialogue with the government, the government and the ministries in question do not adopt its proposals. Good dialogue, without delimiting the proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u99	I would ask that the Stepma be prepared in order to speak to the Chief of Staff Response and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance Mr. Tsipras. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have asked for the floor to speak more on a major issue, which I think has existed all the time in the political life of the country. I will also say about things relating to the bill, but I think the issue of democracy is more critical. I believe that what is happening with the parliamentary procedure - and not just with the parliamentary procedure - goes beyond the limits. I am not saying - and I repeat - only in this bill which we are debating today, with the so-called 'Christmas amendments'. I am thinking in particular of the way and method chosen by the government to legislate not only on Christmas Eves, but throughout, especially after the beginning of the pandemic, like the thief. However, this has, in my view, been a general one, and I believe that it is a matter that needs a very serious debate. The government is taking advantage of the situation in the pandemic, the fact that the House operates under emergency conditions - so to speak - and votes for critical interventions without consultation and without publicity. I would say that in other cases, not simply because of the reaction of the Members themselves in the parliamentary majority, could not have been formally tabled and voted on here, but would not have been passed by the café in this House. I am referring in particular to the way in which Mrs Kerameau last Thursday evening, with a late amendment - but it does not matter whether she was late or not - with a last-minute amendment she raised a major issue concerning the equalisation of the diplomas of higher education institutions with graduates in colleges in terms of the obligation for chambers to document them, without consulting them, without having been given notice, unexpectedly. And, of course, that's how we've found a fabulous here without a nose opening. The media, in the form of 20 million on the Pecha list, and I do not know how much more, do not open matters, and the Members of Parliament have all given the vote to the Secretaries of the Parliamentary Groups. Because that's what this is about. To speak clearly between us. You are taking advantage of an emergency situation, the fact that we cannot be three hundred Members of Parliament and vote at the same time. So, by means of the letter vote, what do we actually do? We have given our signature to the Secretaries of the Parliamentary Groups. So on critical issues, which is where the MEP's autonomy and the value of parliamentary procedure emerge, all nights come and are voted on. And I wonder, where are the MPs, the engineers of the New Democracy? Do they agree with this proposal that was passed at night by Mrs. Kerameau? I wonder, too, what is your view of excellence, after all, that you have been so upset at us all over the past period? Is that your opinion? To equate the rights of children who with their sword and with their excellence succeeded in the Greek exams and entered a school at the National Technical University in Aristotle, ASAOEE, with the children who did not succeed, but their parents had the financial potential, the money, that is, to send them to a three-year-old college? Is that your perception of excellence and you secretly bring such amendments? That's a disgrace! It's never happened before! I read the chamber statements. It is not SYRIZA those who come out and say "shock" to your Government and Mrs.Kerameos, who serves in such a vulgar manner private interests. Was that really the point, this proposal, this idea of the equalisation of the professional rights of children studying five years whole and bothering and nursing - do you know all that - at the universities in the country with the three-year colleges in your programme, gentlemen of the New Democracy? Did you say this to the Greek people in an election? You hadn't told the Greek people in electoral terms. We were, of course, saying that Mr. Mitsotakis is with the elites. You've been confusing us. However, we did not expect that to happen. For Mrs Kerameos - and Mitsotakis - obviously because she has not been on the move for a year and a half, she has shown that she is the minister of private education, of private interests and not of education. Services to college owners all the time. All right, they said they were sponsors of your party. But that's not an explanation. You cannot level the Constitution and legislate night. At the same time that it brings this amendment to night last Thursday, quietly again, without anyone picking up, in order to find customers in college, it comes to change a month in December, in the middle of a pandemic, the system of introduction to higher education again. In a school year that is already taking place with many problems, with students taking courses with teleconference and with great anxiety as to whether they will get out and how to get the matter out, you come to change the system - they are unprecedented in time in a few months and in these months of pandemic - establishing an import base per preference school, in order to fly out of higher education next year more than twenty thousand students, to serve these interests! Because some of these children who are not going to pass, some of these twenty-four thousand students who do not have access to public educational establishments, depending on their financial potential, will be forced to go to colleges, which - and with the vulture of three years of study - will have access to the Chamber of Technical Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Economics. This is your understanding of justice. This is your perception of excellence. This is your understanding of democracy. Because - I repeat - it is not just our disagreement that policy on these decisions is being taken. It's your right. The process itself sets out a major issue of democracy and transparency in the country. These issues, if they were to be dealt with, would obviously create a very large debate, debate and consultation with the relevant bodies. You all in one night! Spray, wipe, you're done! And what I told you a moment ago about the services of Mrs Kerameos and Mr Mitsotakis, we will also include everything that has been done lately. Since November 30, we have asked the Committee on Institutions and Transparency to come to the Committee on Institutional Affairs on the crucial issue of the registration of pandemic data, for the great, crucial issue that has emerged in the media, the report on dual-registration, the Minister for Health, the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, the President of the EGE, a representative of the Committee of Scientists, to give Parliament a picture of what is happening. And refuse to convene the committee in fulfilling this request. And I wonder what the role of Parliament is? We have had serious complaints, in order of publications, referring to a dangerous combination of opacity and incoherent amateurism, with the so-called 'double recording system' and registries that have been paid extremely accurately, but the databases do not communicate. The government's answer to this problem was that it was not the chaos you caused, but the ones who revealed it. At the request of the Grand Maximus, government-friends media owners "clean" within one night any journalists dare to report. They even disappear from the Internet and the report itself, as if we were at other times, as if someone today could extinct the existence of a news.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u101	How does that prove?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u102	Do you want to have a dialogue? I'm at your disposal. What exactly do I prove? That the report has disappeared, or that I am obviously referring to what was said, in the complaint of a journalist, who, obviously, only cannot be accused of it, or is SYRIZA, that she has been friendly with SYRIZA all the previous period? If, then, there is someone who has to prove something, you, who have to answer - your government and Mr. Petsas sitting on the corner - and prove whether the journalist's complaints do not apply, not me to prove something. And please don't interrupt me. Listen to me, because these are never-timed things! Because your intolerance not to criticism, but also to the report, the suppression of every different voice that makes you critical, not criticism from an ideological point of view, but with facts and facts, is unprecedented not only in the chronicles of the Hellenic Republic, but I would say that it is also rare for the democratic tradition of Europe. So there is a big issue here. It is a question of democracy and I put it directly. It has to do with the list of millions, as we constantly call it 'Petsa List'. Okay now, it's not. It's Mr. Mitsotakis. Mr Petsas is simply signing and perhaps addressing any criminal responsibilities that arises in the future. It is Mr Mitsotakis who has chosen to make use of the pandemic in order to create an unprecedented media funding method, without criteria. Because, obviously, the media as a press firm, like other businesses, had to be supported. However, this had to be done on criteria such as the number of workers, the possibility of selling leaves or their audience rather than on the basis of who is "friend" and who is not "friend" in Maximos! These are unprecedented things about European democracy! So, apart from the issue of democracy, there is also a question of transparency. You've made a pandemic of opportunity to disperse public money. Refugee spending control for the pandemic. You refuse to provide information even on the amount and type of donations to the Greek State during the pandemic period, as well as on how to take advantage of these donations, which is the most critical one. The day before yesterday, you rejected our proposal in the Committee on Institutions to prioritise specific audits by the Court of Auditors. And the question is: What are you afraid of? You refuse to say anything about the "orgy" set up by the Secretary-General of Crime Policy, Mrs Nikolaos, who has shared a series of direct awards to all - because we have lost the account and may be more - as we had previously measured, 1.7 million directly commissioned and valued products that reach 450% in companies, mostly companies, newcomers or others that change their statutes a few days before they sign the contract. The Secretary-General for Crime Policy has become famous! Has there ever been such an active secretary of crime policy in the past? However, she has become famous not for her intervention against crime, but for direct assignments. And in any case, why refuse these conventions to come to light? Why do you deny control? And while you deny control, they're getting out of the light of strange partnerships with dark corporations that you diligently keep secrets. And I want directly to ask - I am sure that none of the attending ministers know how to answer me unless the Government representative knows to answer that - what exactly you have agreed with the American company that played a leading role in the online manipulation of the American people's vote in favour of Donald Trump in the previous American elections. Since March, this government, which has been characterized by its management incompetence in the pandemic, has said, hired or entered into a contract with a 'darky' company, on a pretext I will say, or with an object - I am asking - the management of the pandemic. It is a company that played a catalytic, central role in CAMBRIDGE ANALYTICA. What exactly are you doing here? And why are you hiding all this? And it came to the public, because in the United States of America there is a law that observes and defines listed companies to declare their contracts with foreign states. And that is where we have been informed that since March you have been working with the company 'PALANTIR'. What exactly are you going to take advantage of in the pandemic? What dirty game are you going to play with the Greek citizens' personal data? And you don't think we'd find out about this and that they'd get through it like this? I want you to answer. What does the company PALANTIR have to do with Greece? What exactly does he do? What contract do you have? Why didn't you make it public? Why don't you give it to the public? Why does our country do business with a company working with secret services of the United States, the Trump campaign and a few months ago took the lead, took the lead in a huge scandal of breaching personal data in the national health system of Great Britain, the NHS, where millions of personal data of patients were collected from that state, between that name, age, residence, phone numbers, professions, jobs, origin, religious and political beliefs, their criminal records, the situation of their biological, mental and mental health? A huge scandal in Great Britain! This contract was against a euro! So what exactly are you doing? Are you going to give answers? You don't want to give answers. But you will give answers - you want, you do not want - because this is not a matter, I repeat, a reasonable political controversy between the government and the opposition on different policies, on how we believe that the economic or health crisis must be addressed. This is not a question of political confrontation between parties, between different ideas, ideologies or programmes. This is a question, for the most part, about institutional functioning, the functioning of democracy. All political parties have to take a stand on these issues too. In the next few days, then, we will be calling for a debate in Parliament on matters of democracy, transparency, parliamentary operation and accountability, particularly in the quarantine period. Because democracy cannot quarantine in this place. And all parties will be placed against them, and Mr. Mitsotakis will take place and explain. It will give us an explanation of how it legislates, the interests it serves, the contracts it hides. And it will also make public the contracts of this kind, as the law stipulates. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the crucial issue, the first issue we need to discuss in the next few months. But allow me also some thoughts on current critical issues. Last Saturday, Mr. Kikilia, I was in West Attica. I visited the Mayor of Elefsina and the Vice-President of West Attica. They do not belong to the fact that I represent them. They are, however, people who have shown interest and have me informed and given me a picture of the situation in the wider region. I also met with the Labour Center. And I made a critical conclusion you know - in my view, crucial - that, unfortunately, your Government is constantly a step behind the pandemic and not ahead, as it should be, in particular in the second phase. The Vice-President told me that he had, in time since the beginning of November, a letter to the EGE, because before we even entered the second Lockdown, there were dozens, more than forty, of cases in school classes, so a sign that the virus was very diffuse in the community, but from what he gave me to understand, the request he made was registered somewhere, but was not exploited. At the same time, there were very important complaints from workers that in units, factories and middle and larger units, but also smaller, there are no controls, either under the responsibility of the EGE or under the responsibility of the owners, concerning the possibility of diagnostic tests for workers. And what I want to try in a few words to explain may also give the answer why two months are in quarantine, in lockdown, but the cases are going well. We have now, in the last few days, a slight drop in cases, but it's not what we expected when this lockdown started, that it'll be two months and we'll be in the picture we're in now. So if we consider a worker who is dependent on his wages, as Mr Mitsotakis said, that is to say if he does not take this wage - the majority of people are like this, but if Mr Mitsotakis does not understand it - he will not be able to make a month, and he knows that if he wants to do a test to see what he is in, he will have to pay for it in his pocket and do 80 euros. And he also knows that Mr Brutsis has legislated so that, if he finds himself positive, he will have to sit on a 14-day capentine - reasonable - but immediately thereafter, for the next month, work unpaid overtime to cover the time missing from his work. You legislated that. So this worker wakes up suddenly and has symptoms, feels comies, has a fever, what does he know? He knows that, to find out if he has the coroner, he has to pay 80 euros from his pocket. He knows that if he has the coronary, he will have fourteen days left and will do unpaid overtime and - in the worst case - he can risk his job. What is this worker going to do, in your opinion? This worker will probably get a phone call from ETA. EGEY will tell him: "Hold home and try to spend the days, pass the symptoms on to you and, but if you have any worsening, re-inform." So this worker will sit at home two days in the worst case, and once the fever falls, he will go to work and go to work, he may also be asymptometic, but an entity himself, and he will go through the electricity to go to work or take the bus, the public transport. He'll probably wear the mask, but he'll be stacked in tails on the electric, the rail or the public bus and he'll go to his workplace and join other workers there. Do you think it is accidental that the areas that appear in the red are western Macedonia, is western Athens, are the central Macedonia, the wider urban complex of Thessaloniki? Is it not related to the fact that there is, for the most part, too large or smaller units, industrial installations and workers at industrial plants? I think it's no accident. We therefore need to realise that, if we want to tackle the spread of the virus, we need to take other measures. And of course I can't understand what you've done. You announced the opening with the click away of shopping stores on Sunday and Monday they started. And in West Attica the people on Monday opened their stores and on Wednesday night you told them to shut them down again. Didn't you have a picture of the epidemiological data in that area? Monday you made them open and Thursday you had them shut down? These are signs that you've probably lost the ball, you've lost control. I say this quite frankly, with a view to finding a solution, not opposition. Because if you have lost the ball on the pandemic, if you have lost control, then that is not bad for the government, it is bad for all of us! It is announced the day before yesterday that you will perform 12 thousand tests every day through a lottery process, those who want and want to perform a test. You may respond to what I told you before, that citizens who do not have financial capacity cannot carry out tests. You are, however, going to respond in a way that will lead to distorting conclusions on the picture that the scientists have to have on epidemiological data by region, so that they can have an overall picture of the country. Because those who are going to rush the internet to declare that they want and apply to do the test, they will mostly be people who have a concern, so they state, and they take measures and care for them. To get a complete picture, however, you need to take a random sample. And, above all, you must address those who are not applying for you, address the Roma groups, address the homeless, address the refugees, the elderly in structures, have a random sample, go outside large factory units, include those who care and those who are not cared for, and those who say negative. So you'll have a random statistical sample and an image of the spread of the virus into the community. And I'm wondering this elementary logic, is there no one who advises you to make these decisions? You have raised the vaccine in panacea. That's a mistake. We must all support it - and I have said it again and I will say from this step two times - the attempt to vaccinate, to support it all and to get away from the logic of the anti-embryo movement, and first the Members of Parliament to set an example. But it's wrong what you're doing. You're in danger of hitting on her second time. As you pressed it with the sedation of summer "we defeated the coronary", so now that "with the vaccine we will finish the coronary". You had set two million vaccines and came for a hundred and fifty thousand people in the first phase. I understand that this is a problem facing the European Union as a whole. Like you do not bring the vaccine, but the European Union brings it, so the criticism of the number of vaccines I will not do to you, I will be fair. However, what I would like to stress is that there must be combined policies here. The vaccine must of course be carried out throughout the population, but at the same time the scanning of the population must also be done, so that we can have an image, preventive measures, but also the effort to be made, the great battle, the National Health System with people who are either in intensive care units, our fellow citizens, or in the CIVID units and who must be supported in every way. A combination policy is needed. And they must also be supported by innovative programmes for the administration of medicinal products, which can help these people and not only the elite, to some people who might be treated in VIP. And I would like to end with two or three issues relating to social policy. Mr Brutsis had to have been eighteen months to realise and admit publicly, after his great outcry, that there is a question with the outstanding pensions. I remember you, Mr Brutsi, as now in the programme statements, as soon as you took over the Ministry. And the first thing you said is that you will clean up the problem of outstanding pensions. I have some evidence here, which they say we left you about 100 thousand outstanding pensions and you've reached almost four hundred thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u103	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u104	Don't interrupt, please. Mr President, continue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u105	What exactly are the outstanding pensions today? You don't want it to be four hundred thousand? That's three hundred and sixty thousand unfinished pensions, and we left a hundred ten thousand. If you want us to argue, we should disagree. But not to disagree now on secondary issues. The crucial issue is that you almost quadruple the unfinished pensions, while criticising us that it is our fault. And the other crucial one is - because of you who took over in 2015 - that once again four hundred thousand were the outstanding pensions that we received and took them to the hundred thousand. And, in order not to play with numbers now, look at the substance of the matter. When we told you to renew the contract to the contractive young scientists - about five and a half thousand - who were hired not to make ruffles, but to a programme to combat Brain Drain - you said 'no, we will not renew it'. You know what? Thousands of those working with the FBI to do this work now, while the institutions have been telling you since last year that there is a problem, afterward you come to recognize the problem and not to recruit the FBI to solve it, but you want to bring retired people back. Look, I want to speak directly. It is not just our political disagreements and the obsessions that we accuse you of. Here there is a clear problem of management capacity or - to say it differently - management incompetence. You have sold that you are the government of the finest and you come and you prove yourself to be the government of the worthless. And with the pandemic you've messed up and with the unfinished pensions, you've messed up and everything you've worked out. And I'm going to close with the financial issues. I see Mr. Voridis, my favorite. What about the farmers? You'll give an answer. Farmers report that you put the subsidies on their accounts last Friday and, while it was giving 900 million, you gave 800. They've seen 100 million less. There's a 15% cut in what they estimated to get. For people who don't put them aside, they don't save, but obligation to pay, 15% is a critical size. I have heard today that you will be suspending the Banking Code, Mr Brutsi, and gentlemen of the Government, until June 2021. But good, isn't that an excellent law? We had you three days here, we had made a motion of censure to Mr Stakoura and said that it was the second chance. Why are you cutting this second chance and taking her to Juni? You know, lying has short feet. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And I want to hang up with this. Perhaps I could and would like to say too much, but I have devoted very much of my time to the issues of democracy, which I believe to be the major issue. Look, the bill doesn't come out. You blamed us in 2016, in 2017, in 2018 for giving crumbs, because we were giving dividends. On memorials, we were with the troika over our head. We gave 2016 630 million, in 2017 750 million, in 2018 780 million, to millions of beneficiaries. Then we gave social dividends and you told us we were giving crumbs. Now you don't give dividends, but you have the world locked in the apartment and a dividend of zero. You gave 50 million euros and you made it a big deal of the fact that you doubled - it says - the social income of solidarity, 50 million. I don't know if you understand, but people don't save. She's unhappy. In any case, you were not able to give the gift, as we have repeatedly tabled, in order to get it at the nominal value of all the workers and to facilitate small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Small and medium-sized business is narrowing. If we do not open a debate seriously for a hundred and twenty doses only in 'losers', as Mr Skylakakis announced, but a substantial debate, which will have something to do with something similar to what we did for the insurance funds and a hundred and twenty instalments, but also the deletion of part of the debt, will not be possible for small and medium-sized enterprises to survive. We'll go the next time in a hell of a thousand knuckles to small and medium-sized businesses. Three things, therefore, I shall mention all three things, because you will hear them from now on every time when I or a representative of SYRIZA. Firstly, increases in the income of workers with increases in wages. It's a crucial issue, and we did it. You modulate in order to renew your promise and throw it in time in relation to the increases in minimum wages. Secondly, private debt regulation for small and medium-sized enterprises. And thirdly, strong social state, health, education, social welfare, security and social protection. This tripartite is what can give answers and solutions to the great needs and problems of Greek society today. And above all, keep it in mind that we will not allow democracy to enter quarantine. Immediately after the holidays, I will ask for a debate to be held on the agenda in the House with the presence of the Prime Minister, in order to get answers to the critical questions I have raised today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u106	Until the Stepma has been prepared, I give the Minister for Health the floor to give some answers, as the President of SYRIZA, Mr Tsipras, requested. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is an indiscriminate right of the major and minor opposition and all the colleagues to ask questions and ask answers, as they are quintreat of democracy and parliamentaryism. So I am very happy to answer the President with evidence. I'll start at the end. It is welcome and very pleasant that you repeatedly intend to support the vaccination effort. I believe that a large part of the solution to a pandemic, we have seen it historically, and I have seen it to the health officer of SYRIZA Mr Blonde and to the others, and I thank you very much for that, and I expect it to be followed in all its parts from now on and until vaccination is completed. The National Vaccination Campaign will be carried out with what your Head of Division and Head of the KINAAL has asked me to do and with the efforts and confidence of Members and Heads of the parties in this direction. It is obvious that you will first be summoned by all together with the other parties' leaders on a reasonable date with the approval and arrival of vaccines - first God will go well - on the 27th day of the month to be vaccinated. And since we are talking about the 27th of the month, Mr President, I myself announced the possibility of the Greek state being able to vacate up to two million fellow citizens a month with a thousand eighteen structures mainly of primary health care, we agreed on Mr Xanthos, and on vaccination centres. But I would like to remind you that for this reason - and this regrets me - in the last four months and as to the length of time when the vaccines are coming, you are accusing me of trade in hope. You said this from here, you said it in SYRIZA's official announcement, you repeat it all the time. The vaccines therefore come in December 2020. I would ask you and I ask you very much to reconsider your opinion on my position and on the next day of the Prime Minister of the country, as you say quite rightly, in quantities of such as has been agreed in the European Union and the accuracy and severity of our positions and positions, especially in the middle of a pandemic. I can explain exactly how the procedure will proceed. You are talking about the announcement of a vaccine that has been approved at the moment by the FDA and we expect it to be approved by the EMA as well. We are talking about the vaccine 'PFIZER'. Already in America, a second vaccine was approved by the FDA, its MODERNA vaccine, and on 6 January it will come to the EMA in order to be approved. Subsequently, the vaccine ‘ASTRAZENCA’ is followed by the vaccine ‘ASTRAZENCA’. As a result, ‘INFLUVAC’ may be ‘INFLUVAC’. But, as you can see, the time unit is increasing the companies whose vaccines are approved. So it won't be one, it'll be more than one, so the amount of vaccines. As the weeks and months move forward, therefore, with the prioritisation that we decided on on the basis of the Committee on Vaccines' report, namely the first of the health workers and then the vulnerable groups and then the older people and downwards, they will begin to be vaccinated, Mr President, every week and more of our fellow citizens. So one vaccine, doses every month. Second vaccine, added to the first vaccine doses, third vaccine as well. The European Commission has already made provocations for seven vaccines and others are coming forward. I hope that everything will go well and that one will be approved behind the other. However, this concludes the procedure. I think this is a serious process. It is a very critical process, because no country has ever made a universal vaccination of citizens, like our country, since 1922. In any case, I am pleased that we are all going to contribute to this process. You said about transparency and data. As I said, it is reasonable that opposition may ask for answers and questions. But it is also an inalienable right for the Government and the Ministry of Health to give answers to the level it chooses, Mr President. You have been given answers at the level of the Committee on Licensors - Epidemiologists, at the Ministry of Health, many at the level of parliamentary control, the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, to the Health Committee. Wherever you've asked, you've got answers. But you will allow the majority, through the Government, to choose the way in which they want to reply to you by parliament. I think that's reasonable. The whole summer of last year, when requested by the Civic Opposition, we came here, the Prime Minister, a series of Ministers, and first of all, I, and I answered the institutions for all the things you asked us about. Also, with great seriousness, consistency and cooperation with the representatives of the parties, but also with the Department of Health, Mr Xanthos and Mr Polakis, who were formerly Deputy Minister of Health, institutionally and whenever they asked me or called me or needed, I discuss and listen to their proposals. And as a whole, from where I believe that something can be taken and added to the Greek effort, I have done so, Mr President. Don't have any doubts. Let's go see the West Attica and accountability. We did not hold a press conference from the warehouses where our fellow citizens were kept with full transparency, with a three-member committee of our approved fellow citizens and an audit and have we informed what has been given and where it is placed? We told you in the parliamentary control which breathers and what beds have we gone to which ICUs, what consumables to what hospitals and how have we exploited this really very important effort of the benefitors in the National Health System? We every day, every time there is a need, do we not inform the parties in the middle of a pandemic, which is one of the biggest crises of the last 100 years? When there is a need, even as a whole, for the Ministry of Health, the State Secretary, Mr Kontozamanis, Mrs Rapti and I have asked questions here so many times all these months. Before we even asked, Mr President, we came here to account. You are talking about the Court of Auditors and the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. Welcome! As far as the Ministry of Health is concerned, there have only been competitions in the middle of a crisis - but only - and all the structures have been exploited. You know, Mr. Tsipras, who became the Ministry of Health's competition at the "IFET S.A."? They were with the President you appointed. I used, Mr Tsipras, the President you appointed, in order to have all the competitions carried out between a pandemic in the Ministry of Health. Of course, I trusted the one who the Civilian Opposition today - and the government yesterday - appointed the President of the IFET S.A., to come by - neither the EGF nor the EGF nor the Ministry of Health - all the competitions with the emergency health problem. We have so much confidence in democracy, transparency and people who are doing their duty. Let me tell you something. Mr. Pantazis is excellent. Let's go down and talk about West Attica, the National Public Health Agency and mobile units. Nowhere have there been mobile units throughout Europe. In our country there are five hundred. There were no places two months ago in Europe rapid test with the approval of the World Health Organisation, with a sensitivity and clarity of more than 55%. We first of all used them to refugees and immigrants in Moria, Mr President, and then brought them here. Wherever there has been a string, everywhere, movable units and worthy scientists from the National Organization for World Health, CEDEFOP, have gone with all the problems that New Democracy, KINAL and SYRIZA have taken on. Mr President, I have respected them all. I have respected them all. I didn't see anyone. I hugged everyone. Counsellor at EDEY is former advisor to Andreas Xanthos at the Ministry of Health, Mr. Raftopoulos. I appointed him. There are thirty two scientists from all over the political spectrum in the National Committee for Limitology - Epidemiologists. The former doctor of your family there, the former advisor of Mr. Xanthos there, the former associate of Mr. Polakis there, horizontal interparliamentary committee all these months, transparently, honestly and with accountability every day. I'm talking about West Attica, not saying I'm evading. The National Agency for Public Health and Civil Protection have carried out over the past two months 50 actions and missions in West Attica, aiming at epidemiological surveillance and defending public health in structures of vulnerable groups, in elderly care units, in hospitality centres for refugees and immigrants, in special schools, in social services, in police departments, mass sampling in squares and drive through. Do you know what was the first mission of the EGE, Mr. President, since I was taken up as a Minister of Health? To inoculate horizontally all refugee and migrant children in all CYTs in the country. That was his first priority. And they have done a huge task horizontally all those working in health, permanent doctors, subsidiarys, nurses, bankers, cleaners, all over the world, respected them all and supported them all horizontally. We believe them horizontally. So I cannot accept that you believe that and I think it is in the context of party controversy. However, such confrontation is not at the level of a pandemic, a public health crisis and patriotism that we all want to show. So please support the vaccination effort in the next few months. "He was a government of the excellents, he finally became a government of the unusable." Really? Mr. President? So what would Merkel say? What does Olad have to say, with thousands of cases in France and Germany, with forty and fifty thousand ICUs and Germany being closed? What should France say with one of the most powerful and rich health systems, or Italy, Sweden, Switzerland, Spain and Austria? What should all of them say? The National Health System, of which I am a guardian and supporter of its public role and support it, endured and stood up, Mr President, even in northern Greece, for as much as anything else. And the country has endured and stood up and is an example for the other European countries, but also globally. If they don't tell you, I'll tell you. In the first wave that we abstained without having to use the entire ESS, but only 30%, because we did go to a horizontal, hard lockdown, we were able to defend ourselves. In the second, we used the whole ERR, 100%, which exceeded its capabilities thirty times and withdrew, by multiplying MSFs. What other national health system doubled - and more - its ICUs in the midst of the crisis and hired seven thousand sanitaries? You requested simulations, the four thousand nurses are permanent. All the ESS doctors are permanently involved in the IFs and those who have entered the crisis and in various ways and amendments that we have brought here. We've scanned the lists, there's no nurse left who hasn't been appointed. There are no other doctors. Mr. Tsipras, thirty-five doctors are in the state of seven U.S. and they're waiting. We got them all, pneumonologists, anestheticists. All those in the relevant coronary specificity have been hired. Unemployment has been eliminated in nurses. There's no one left. So - so that I do not abuse your time and since I thank you for staying here to listen to me - I would like to say that we are very proud horizontally of the way in which we have dealt with and reacted to the pandemic. Once in a hundred years they all bet - so to speak - that Greece, with a hit national health system from ten years of crisis and restrictive budgetary policies, Mr President, would not stand. And our country has endured, and the National Health System has endured. I mean that, despite any misunderstandings, there have been voices in your line of reason and voices consensual and voices that have tried at times to support the whole effort and I thank you for that. However, I cannot accept the individual criticism that is being made, especially with regard to things that we have all become societal, from the way in which I announced the vaccines and what you said, until the way the National Health System or the COMY or EVY or the Civil Protection or any worker is fighting and trying. We didn't tell anyone, we respected everyone. I refuse to accept that there is any party position or bar in our effort. We embraced them all, we respected them all. And I believe that we will hopefully end up in this huge crisis with a huge, difficult project, such as vaccination, and I believe that this is a legacy of the country, not only of the government, not only of the majority Members, who will be able to build on it - if you like - and the new ESS, which you and your partners have mentioned many times, and of what may occur on a next day of partial regularity at the beginning, so that we can take our lives back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u109	Wait a minute, Mr. Varoufakis, if you want, let me say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Kikilia, how many partners...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u111	Please, Mr. Polakis, let us continue. Before you came to the Chamber, Mr President, Mr Varoufakis, he had asked the floor in order to answer questions raised to both staff and governmental authorities because Mr Kikilias answered health. Other issues were raised. Now, you have asked for the floor - because I have to be quite clear - since the morning and you said that sometime you will come to speak. If you now want to speak, under the Rules of Procedure you can. If you let Mr. Voridis lead, whatever you say I will.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u112	Let Mr. Vorides speak, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u113	Good, thank you very much. Mr. Vorides has the floor. I don't know if you want to come to Stepma, Mr. Voridis. That's where you can talk to the mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u114	If I have to with the mask, I'll come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u115	Come to Stepma. Thank you, Mr President. You had the right to speak, Mr Varoufakis, under the Rules of Procedure, but because some questions have been asked to the government, I had received the message that on behalf of the government Mr Vorides will answer. Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u116	He put the questions and left the Chief of Officer's Response!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u117	Don't put those parameters on, it's not a cadet!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u118	Hey, he was here, don't say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u119	It's not polite, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u120	Please, I have given the floor to Mr. Voridis. Don't cause a problem! Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. To close one - one themes, Mr Tsipras, because he is struggling for the fate of farmers - but not enough to hear the answer - he raised a matter and left. He raised the question that aid was lodged on Friday, but that was not fully lodged. He didn't, obviously. I'm guessing his partners didn't let him know. I don't want him to know. No matter what sensitivity, he would certainly not be informed, he would read out all of this, but his colleagues would have to tell him that today another EUR 70 million has been paid and therefore all the aid has been paid. So, carbons are the treasure of counterpopulation there! I should like to inform you, however, because I know that Mr Tsipras is always sensitive to this issue, that the compensatory compensation will be paid on 24 December, a sum of EUR 248 million. I should like to inform you that the measure to strengthen the producers' olive oil will also be granted, EUR 126 million, on 24 December. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would also like to inform you that, by the end of next Wednesday, EUR 7 million has been paid for the people and EUR 37 million for the Kalamata olives, the spring potato, the early watermelon, the fruit and vegetables of the greenhouse. They will therefore have all these amounts disbursed by the end of the year. And that is what concerns anyone who is concerned about our policy on farmers. But I heard the best of Mr. Tsipras. I must say something to you, ladies and gentlemen. Listening to Mr. Tsipras today, I was thinking of Panos Kammenos and of explaining why Panos Kammenos came to my mind. Do you remember your co-pilot, who was coming here and developed some scandal theories, all revealing some shocking things that happened, all some speculation, all some cases that, in the end, didn't end up anywhere? That was Mr Tsipras' speech today: 'the company you took, why did you take it, the direct assignment you made' - but what assignment? - a number of scandals, no evidence. Panos Burned to his best! We missed him in the Chamber. I hope that this will not happen to Mr Tsipras too. I hope it will happen to him, but, in any case, that is not my decision. And take note: Mr Tsipras, ladies and gentlemen, has called us and said that he will do so before the day-to-day order - what? - the question of democracy. There is an institutional deficit, he told us. Why is there an institutional deficit? Because we are tabling a number of amendments, ahead of the parliamentary year. I think we were all here together when the three hundred and three hundred amendments were made at the end of the year. Wasn't there a democracy deficit then? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Is there now that they do not go down to amendments, but to a text of the law?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u122	They were 'left' amendments!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u123	They were 'left', so they did not create a democratic issue. However, I have heard something else: there is - it says - a question of democracy, because a late amendment has been tabled and Mr Tsipras, who has never done so. SYRIZA's late as a government never testified! Unprecedented! It's awkward! But listen, there was another question of democracy, that one journalist - I will say her name, not to be hidden, and I will also say that she is a critical and serious journalist - Mrs Krystals has interrupted her cooperation with the instrument with which she was cooperating. Yes, sir! And Mrs. Crystal said that this was because she displeased the government with a report. That's the data. This, then, emerges as a question of democracy - look out! - without any evidence that there is government intervention to stop Mrs Krystelli's cooperation. No one's ever told us that. That's a guess. If Mrs Krystelli did not find them with the instrument by which she was working on his political line, on his viewpoint, on their cooperation, on anything, this is a matter of the media and journalist. How does the government get involved? So sensitive is Mr. Tsipras and his government! Should I remind you of which government we're talking about? We're talking about the government of manipulation of the TV field. We're talking about the government of grazing leave. We're talking about the government of Kalogritsa and the 2 million euros to become a symbiote. We are talking about the government of ERT, Akrovopoulou and Capscha. We are talking about this government and, above all, about the government of the 'NOVARTIS', which is coming to say that it will raise a question of democracy in the New Democracy! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Another suicidal decision. One more suicidal decision! I'd love to. I wish you could bring this debate on democracy, so that we can remember your things. And be careful, we come to the last, because there's a distortion there, and not least important. I hear: 'This amendment relating to the TEU was in secret.' It's about the simulation of degrees. We've heard all the rest of it, for children who don't have money with the kids who have money, for those who become engineers with those who don't become engineers. And what is the amendment? Now watch the distortion. The amendment concerns the question of who considers the recognition of professional rights, namely, whether the chambers will judge it or judge it by a committee at the Ministry of Education. That's it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u124	Mercy! You're hypocrites! The private IEK with the universities!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u125	The amendment is that which comes, Mr Skourletis, in order to cover what you obviously did not want to deal with, because this is inherited as a problem by the European Commission, because the European Commission is coming and says that there will be a procedure for monitoring and apportioning, because there is no response to requests for recognition of professional rights. And why is there no response and delay? Because this body is not responding. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] To deal with this issue, which is obviously dragging, we are coming and transferring this crisis. It is not an issue of equivalence or of parity or anything, but of a mechanism which differentiates the crisis point in order to make a decision. Not anything else, but man making a decision if he is granted his right to work or not. That's all the time the commander asks and doesn't take it. That's what we're regulating. And instead of that, we heard all this terrible conspiracy. To sum up, I would also like to refer to an article on which you will be asked to decide now, which you love farmers and which you are cut off. And I am sure that we are all going to this regulation together, because with this regulation we are doing it, we are giving our producers the opportunity to take the aid measures without producing tax and insurance information. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I must also thank the Minister for the finance, but also Mr Brutsi for his consent to a fair regulation. Why is this arrangement fair? Because the aim of the aid is to support production. We are giving this aid so that our producers can compensate for the damage we have from the restrictive measures we take for the coronary. It is therefore necessary to ensure that this money is used to continue its production activity and not to go to meet other needs. We are bringing this regulation and I would like to see how those who are cut off on agricultural income are placed in it. And since they told us whether we paid all the money on Friday, or we went to some amount on Monday, they did not have to tell us how they stand against farmers' incomes, but also the overall effort we have made to support our producers from this government. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Minister. The President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Varoufakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall of course address the major issue of vaccination and the threats to vaccination, as well as to the issues of democracy, which is also threatened by this government. Before that, however, I will honour the parliamentary procedure, speaking of this bill. It is not bad at all, ladies and gentlemen of the government - in fact, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I do not see any lady - that the year is closed, at least by parliament, with a broom bill. The question is what a broom? Settlement, clearance or cover cleaner? It is impressive, ladies and gentlemen, that you do not miss the opportunity given to you by life and by Parliament at last to do the right thing, after you have exhausted all the alternatives. And I will give six examples through your bill. That's right, a hundred and twenty instalments for debts in municipal businesses and citizens' municipalities. That's all we've been having lately. This was an excellent opportunity for this EUR 1.5-1.6 billion, which is the debts to the insurance funds and especially to the public of small and medium-sized enterprises which have been severely affected - over 40% - by the coronary, from pandemic to pandemic, to delete it, because the continued prolongation of the problem is not its solution. Only one solution exists on bankruptcy and it's not borrowing, it's not prolongation, it's not parole, but it's haircut. This EUR 1.5 billion - when you have a reserve of EUR 3 billion, we have also told the budget - was an ideal opportunity before Christmas to do it for small and medium-sized enterprises. Do it for your small and medium-sized enterprises, most of your people are, have voted for you, have not voted for Mera25. One example is that. You didn't do this very simple thing that you had the opportunity to do before Christmas. Secondly, regarding recruitment to the National Health System. Bring back theme of recruitments with beautiful, impressive titles in the article on the recruitment of subsidiary doctors and nurses to the National Health System. One looks at parole, prolongation, another prolongation. You're evacuating the time for what you've already done. No new intake. It reminds me of Promethea's liver a little bit. This law is eaten and then it's rebuilt. He's re-eating. He's getting back together. That's what you're doing. You are constantly hiring, reintroducing and prolonging yourself, without any substantial reinforcement of the National Health System. Thirdly, there is the programme 'COMPANY WORK'. There are two issues here. The first is simply because I have this obsession with public debt, as I say again. It is well known that you have borrowed 2 billion euros from the 'SURE' programme for this programme. I haven't seen you record them somewhere. That's a public debt and you didn't write it anywhere. Check it out, please, because I think that 2 billion euros is not a little money. This is a debt, it is not aid from the European Union to the 'REGION - WORK' programme. And what do I see? I see you've been pulling it for a month yet. Good. And what's next? You know there's going to be a tsunami of padlocks and unemployment. What are you doing about it? We gave you an idea in the debate on the budget. We hoped that today that this bill'sweeping', with which you close many holes or hopes and say that you are doing so, you could have taken one of these ideas, which is purely systemic proposal - is not even subversive, radical, unheard, purely systemic proposal - that is, any undertaking that has taken liquidity from you and cannot repay it within the time you have said that it will be repaid, that it can say 'I can't' and actually give option, 'option', to the public, so that it can be converted from liquidity to capital support. In other words, what you do in "Aegean", in Piraeus, in large businesses, to do it to the small ones. We submitted it to you as a proposal. We hoped you'd have looked into it by now. You could even have embraced it and said it was your idea. Besides, what does Mera25 say? No one can hear it, but only the few good people who see the Parliament's channel. Let's go to the fourth point, work. Here is a coconut battle between SYRIZA and New Democracy about who cares for the workers more. You have now talked about increasing the minimum wage. It was funny to raise the minimum wage. You know very well that what matters to workers, above all, is the collective agreements, which have remained virtually outside of a game of industrial relations for all the years that you have been in the government and which you do not touch. The collective agreements end day after day, month after month. They're not renewed. There's the big deal. That's where you're doing nothing. All you do is postpone the increase in the minimum wage and, of course, enter compulsory work from the back door on Sundays, with the so-called 'click away'. Five, somewhere you refer to artists, to artists. We have Cleona Gregoryidis here, who knows better than you know. He knows very well how many of these artists are who actually fall into it and how many are not. We raised a broader question, because we understand that, when you have a man who is currently unpaid, was working with 'black', he was declared to work ten hours a week when he worked ten hours a day and is not going to be strengthened, he has not been strengthened, he is in despair. And he will tell you "good, Minister, Mr. Vice-President, I, who I am not an artist, must die of hunger"? We have proposed - and we have proposed this in the budget - a new way of strengthening vulnerable, uncharted and uncharted people from an artistic process and having no work at the theatre or at the bar the night they were working. We call it “Financial Transactions System”. What we are doing, again systemically, is that we have tabled a specific proposal for you. You should tell us if you disagree with this proposal, because you disagree. You should reject it, but reject it with a rationale, not by silence, as you do so long, because the idea of deferred tax which actually guaranteed the banks 20 billion from the second memorandum, in 2012, cannot be used in this system - we call it "DIMITRA" - by which you actually give credits to workers, artists, unpaid artists, vulnerable people based on the same idea of deferred tax, i.e. future taxes. We have tabled a very specific proposal. No answer. Sixth, with sadness, sorrow and smile - because it is a little funny - I read the article in "Tourism for All" which, of course, for people of tourism is like mocking them. It's okay, I get it. You've given some euros over it, you've extended it. But it came to my mind, Madam President and gentlemen of the government - there is also a lady and I am pleased about that - what you know is happening these days in December, which has a great deal to do with our tourism. Have you heard of Brexit? It's happening these days. We are at the end of a duplicate agreement between the European Union and Britain or the collapse of the agreement, a no-deal. This is very important for our tourism. Have you come up with that? Have you realised that, as we go, there is a very high possibility that the British tourist - and you know what percentage of British tourists we have in Corfu, Rhodes, in various regions of Greece, in Athens - will you make him sit in the line of non-European Union visitors, what impact will this have on coming to our country? Have you negotiated this with Brussels? Are you involved in this conversation? Do you know that a no deal will drop the pound in relation to the euro, increase the euro and effectively make Turkey and Morocco more attractive for the British? I'm just mentioning it. And since I am talking about Britain, I would very much like the Minister for Health here to be, because I would like to ask a question. Is he here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Contozamanis is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u129	I would like to ask a very specific question, without any opposition, Minister. There's a great anxiety right now. You know that there is a new COVID member -19 in Britain, who has come to Greece as far as I know. Is it true or is the information I had today that the molecular test doesn't get him? Answer me. These are things that, in order to build a relationship of trust between the government and the citizens, citizens need to know. The molecular test - will I say once again, if you have not heard it - will the new COVID strain -19, which has - from what I read at the TIMES London, at the New York Times - 70% more chance of being transmitted from one person to another? And now I'm coming to the big deal. I thought I'd talk about it, the vaccine. Yes, gentlemen of the government, you will remember. I said from this Step that the first day, the first time I can be vaccinated, I will be inoculated in public sight to help me to try to get the vaccination. There's nothing wrong with that. But when we were having the debate, I remember having submitted to you - and I had also tabled it in the Minutes of the House - the programme of the German Government, because I listened to Mr Kikilia before, when he replied to the Chief of Officerial Response, saying 'you cannot blame us for things that are happening in Germany too'. Yes, but I tabled the German vaccination programme in the Minutes of the House. I told you that since 1 December they had simulated vaccination centres in Germany, in sixteen centres in each of the eight largest states. I asked you this. In Germany they feel the need to simulate, i.e. bring people and time, how much time it takes to complete the application, to be informed - why the vaccinated cannot be informed and to give his consent - how much time the vaccination is. They had taken a shot that, at best, since vaccination began on 16 December - then they still did not know that it would be delayed - they could have a centre per 100 000 on 15 January. They had found out who she was. They had found the staff, they put a linen aside, aiming for 70% of them to be vaccinated in July. This is clear that it will not be done in Germany either. The question is why you didn't answer us. It was a clear question. He wasn't even a opposition force I put it in. I wanted you to tell me where you're talking about a thousand centres, who is it? We had the budget the other day. I asked to see where the budget line is. Nowhere. What's gonna be the staff? We heard something about KAPH. We see that you want to return unpaid, unpaid, pharmacy employees. That's not the system. That's a system shortage. It's a premise of the system of death, in which you invest so much and which you ask us to support. We'll support it. Do you support it? Where's his support? I would now like to refer again to something that was very worried about me, listening very carefully to Mr Kikilia talking before. Mr Kikilias spoke of the European Union as an institution that does the best for us and for itself. It's a disgrace, Mr. Kikilia, that. You should have stood here and be critical of the European Union, which has happily failed in this area in two dimensions. Firstly, it is not possible for the vaccinations in the United Kingdom, which are outside the European Union, to begin, and today alone, with a 20-day delay, the approval by Brussels of the European Union, when the vaccine we are talking about is German production. It's from the 'BIOTECH' in Germany. This is a huge failure of the European Union. You're gonna tell me, okay, what do we do? First of all, you should force them. That's the one. The second, and much more important, is the involvement within the European Union. Did you read the "DER SPIEGEL" today? He's asking a question. Mr. Tsipras gave Mr. Kikilia the 'abuse of sins' of the fact that we have very few vaccines, because the whole of the European Union has very few vaccines. That's true. But why does the European Union have very few vaccines? The 'DER SPIEGEL' at least has answered and I would like a comment from you on this answer. The answer is that this is interactive between Paris and Berlin. Mr McCrone has insisted for months that the same number should be ordered by BIONTECH, by the company that eventually with PFIZER took the vaccine that works, and by the French 'Sanofi', which took out a jufufo vaccine, which is not working. Is that true? "DER SPIEGEL" writes it. I am very afraid that it is true, because we know very well how the Franco-German axis works. And neither the French nor the Germans nor the Greek citizens operate. What you have, what has come from Brussels, must be 'angelly faked', this memorial rheumatism that characterizes all three major parties must finally be brought to an end. We applaud as a deeply European party what is being done at European level and want to be closer between our countries, but we do not stop condemning the complexion made at the level of the big companies in Brussels and having an impact today. You will not have the vaccines you would have had if there were no such conflict between the big companies in France and Germany. Let me stay a little in Germany for the vaccine. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, it is or is not true that the German Minister for Health, Mr. Gens Spanna, spoke of the minimum required by Germany to achieve the immunity of the population. We do not use the word 'cadd', we in Mera25. So to inoculate 70% of the eighty million Germans with two doses, you want a hundred forty million doses, of which Germany will only get 58.5. That's why you get a little too. Is it true, or is it not, that the German Minister for Health has put before the process of declaring Germany from the European Union's strategy and has he put the national design for the delivery to the German vaccine authorities outside the European Union? If that's true, what are you doing? Are you going to remain on what they're going to send you? Why don't you do what the German Federal Ministry of Health does to ensure doses of vaccines? So don't tell us to help us try to vaccinate when you just receive e-mail from Brussels and do what you're told and consider by definition what you're told from Brussels is 'advantaged'. Regarding the more general issues of vaccination, ladies and gentlemen, if a poor deity wanted to create problems of unreliability in your Government, if it wanted to sow the doubt on the population, the lack of confidence in you, in us, in all, in all the political scene, which says to them, "be vacant", if, that is, he wanted to create a problem of trust between the state and the citizens, he would: First, at the beginning of the pandemic, he would say to them: "Don't wear a mask, you don't have to." We know very well why you said so. Because you didn't. So, you've made 'creams' for the masks. You said that 'we don't have one, so we don't have to.' Then, when we acquired, you said "we should wear a mask" and in the end it became "the silver bullet that kills the dragula". One is that if you want to create untrustworthy. Secondly, you tell the world what you tell him today, that in supermarkets the coronary doesn't fit. In "IKEA", when it's loaded, not just by civilians, but by businessmen who buy for their own shops, it doesn't fit there either. The little maggot's stuck. If you tell him that to the citizen, do you think he'll trust you again? Same thing when you tell them that if they're stacked on each other on the bus, they shouldn't worry about it. As you know, I live in Aegina. An amateur fisherman told me? "Do you think I'm told it's okay to go to the supermarket, where are we on each other, but to take my boat to drop a longline by myself, it's not okay, it's forbidden over there?" That is what it does, ladies and gentlemen, a government that wants to sow the people doubt as to whether the government is doing the right thing to the citizens or is sadistic. It is fine when the Prime Minister takes the President of the Republic and another twenty-thirty-thirty-three people and goes to the courtyard of the Polytechnic to deposit a wreath, but when seven MPs of the Mera25 have huge distances between us, you suddenly send us a thousand five hundred police officers and we also have a public prosecutor's inquiry. That is what a government wants to undermine its credibility towards the citizens. Thirdly, we shall now move on to economic issues. How much will you spend on the vaccines? What prices will you pay? Is it or is it not true that the ‘ASTRAZENCA’ vaccine is below EUR 2 the dose, while that of ‘BIONTECH’ is EUR 18, because of ‘PFIZER’? And that of 'MODERNA', which is the other American, is around EUR 12? I'm not saying you're responsible for this. But tell us. Why when we learn from the leaks of "New York Times", when the citizens learn it, then how will they trust you? They're talking about interests that always exist. I will not, because I said I would support the national vaccination effort. But when you're not transparent with society, the citizen doesn't know how much you give them, because you give them to who you give them to. To explain to the citizen why ‘BIONTECH - PFIZER’ is 18 euros, while ‘OXFORD - ASTRAZENCA’ is 1.8 euros. There might be a good reason. I have no doubt there might be a good reason. Tell him, though. Don't let the spreads play the role of information. Fourthly, I am not going to talk much about it, because our language has been softened and you are tired of it too. But if you want to raise issues of lack of confidence in the world, you create double books, digital events books, as you've done so long and now you're trying to cover it up with this bill. Fifth, if you really want to make the world out there, especially the opposition, who too must take them along with you and with us in the national attempt to vaccinate, do not believe any of what the government says, then create a digital paratrooper, as is done with PALANTIR. Mr. Vorides didn't answer. Nobody told him about conspiracy or anything. We know there's a contract. Can we see her, please? It's a contract between the Greek state. It's not your private company the public. We want to know what he's saying. Because capitalism, in fact, technofugism, as I say the capitalism of the surveillance today, well keeps and creates very great reactions to a lot of people out there who can deny vaccination because you keep everything in the dark. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, it's like the vaccines were created to create a defamation of contradictions. You want the well-being of the vaccine, but you do not dare to highlight its character, which is partly public in nature, is a public good character. Why don't you want to show it up? Because if you show it, then you should commit to the public network of vaccination centres, which you have committed to the clinical authorities that you will not do. Two words about the public character of the vaccine. It is important and I tell you this in the common effort to convince the world. The big difference, for example, of cortisone from the antibiotic and from the vaccine is that cortisone is a private good. What does that mean? It doesn't mean the private is selling it. It means, if I take it or don't take it, it only has an impact on me. Can my doctor tell me to get a cortisone, I'll sit down and look into it, I'll get a second opinion. Whether I take it or don't take it, it's not about you, it's not about those around me, it's not about my neighbors. It's a private matter. The benefit is private alone. That's why cortisone's not a public good. Antibiotic is a negative public good, because, the more we get it, the less powerful it is. So when I get an antibiotic without any reason and cause to take it, then I reduce your or your child's ability to take advantage. So it's a negative public good, the antibiotic. The vaccine, on the other hand, is positive. Because when I'm inoculated, I'm out of my side. So what's going on? There's a sense of jamper in here. Because if there is a small cost, whether economic or possible, taking the vaccine - small, infinitely, 0.0001 thousand thousand - the other one tells you let everyone else be vaccinated. If everyone else gets vaccinated, I don't have to be vaccinated. Everyone says that and nobody gets inoculated. That's why it's a public good. Here's your problem, though. If you show the value of the vaccine as a public good, then you must admit that it cannot be something that we leave it in the private sector, by definition. You should admit, like mass tests, that this is a public good too. What did we tell you from the first moment? On 10 March I remember being here and told you that we are supporting both the quarantine and the restrictive measures, at our own cost, because of the political area we cover, but, to God, build a public network of mass testing centres, so that we can sometime get out of the quarantine and trace the population as a whole. You didn't do that. In fact, we have told you - we have told you for months now - that you are setting up this centre and network of these public centres so that they are ready and, when the vaccine comes, they can be converted into a network of vaccination centres, which, after leaving a pandemic - at some point, is going to leave here the Spanish flu is gone after 1918 - to be converted into a network of primary care centres that we do not have. You didn't. You have not put one euro in your budget. We talked about it the other day in the budget. You have this conflict. I said it before and I'll say it again one more time. You want the good news of the vaccine, but you do not dare point out its public character, because you are committed to the clinical authorities that you will not build the public network that goes hand in hand with the public character of the centres and the network. Ladies and gentlemen, to close, we, Mera25, are here because this night of the decade that began in 2010 has lasted too long. I heard him using a slogan that was ours, but I am very pleased to share it with SYRIZA, that "democracy does not enter the quarantine". Unfortunately, he's entering the quarantine. And on the plaster, democracy comes in. Democracy is already being abolished. We see it here or have seen recently with a specific waiver of immunity. I won't go any further. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, democracy was first quarantine that last night of the referendum when 'no' did it 'yes'. That was when the categorization, which is now being completed with this government, lifting MP immunity for things that they said from the Step of the House, begins. That night did last a long time. We are in favour of the agenda to discuss matters of democracy and institutions. Are you ready to do what we require, finally to open the file of bankruptcy and memorials - all the memorials - from 2010 to the fifth, where it comes? Because, if this dossier is not opened, we will never be able to see why we have a government which only serves the clinical chiefs, only the predatorial oligarchy, which you set the way, by putting democracy on the plaster, on the quarantine, say what you want, that night of the referendum. We are a party that, whether we are mistaken or say something right, we are not committed to anyone, ladies and gentlemen. We do not have the commitments you have the rest of us. That is why we are constantly tabling sensible, directly applicable policies, and even policies that a New Democracy government could take, but at the same time also the least framework through which we are effectively attacking debt-government. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, I wishly wish for the new year. I have to tell you that, if it were not so tragic that the world's situation outside, we would be entertaining the way in which experience fails to teach you, precisely because your position here, your position as representatives of a particular oligarchy, depends on not being taught by an experience, the continuation of whatever - not the treatment of which - functionally maximizes the oligarchy's returns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Skourletis, there's no staff. You've been overhauling the time from what I see here. The president of your party also spoke, so the time had to be half. You've spoken for fifteen and a half minutes. In the end I may give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, I would like the floor before the Minister takes the floor in order to be able to answer it. It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u134	Mr President, I, too, have not spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u135	The Minister has the floor for a brief answer, since it is not the main speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a few points, as far as the vaccines are concerned, mentioned by Mr Varoufakis. I will agree with him that the vaccine is a public good and, for this population to have access, we must buy it to make it available to the population. Mr Varoufakis, from what I have heard, you have fortunately not had a second chance to negotiate, because we would see the chili vaccines in the country. I would remind you that the European Union is, after America, all the countries that will obtain vaccines. In fact, it is the European Union that has said that it will also place vaccines through donations and a resale process in third countries, in low-income countries, so that other countries can also access the vaccine. The countries of the European Union are one of the first countries to which the vaccine comes after a successful negotiation of all twenty-seven Member States, through the European Union. The European Union also finances the cost of vaccines. Part of the vaccines that will come to our country is paid by the European Union - another success of the European Union! - to ensure access for European citizens to the vaccine. They come on the same day, they are specifically shared, based on the population, in all countries, so as to ensure equal access, with cost financing and, of course, yes, there are different prices for each vaccine, because we are talking about different technologies. The European Medicines Agency, upon whose recommendation the first vaccine will be authorised, has not been late. It has barely succeeded through a rolling evaluation process, where all the companies that developed vaccines from the initial clinical studies were able to submit the data at their disposal, so that within a short period of time we can reach vaccine authorisations. The latest data were submitted to the European Medicines Agency at the beginning of December. In America and England the files were filed a little earlier, which is why the process went on. And ultimately, it is not a competition between Europe or America. It is important to ensure that citizens have access to effective, safe and quality vaccines. This is also done by granting the marketing authorisation from the European Medicines Agency. One more thing. Germany does not leave the European Union to get vaccines on its own. I would remind the House that Germany had established a cooperation with three other countries, France, Italy and the Netherlands in order to negotiate and take vaccines and eventually all four of them joined the common European procurement. Finally, with regard to what Mr Varoufakis said and written in a magazine, I would remind him that the European Union also has an agreement with the French 'Sanofi'. However, this agreement is completely different with regard to the agreements we have with the other companies. And it's different, because we have to develop the vaccine first and then we have to come to an agreement. The European Union has therefore acted quickly for the benefit of all its fellow citizens, and we have the possibility at the moment - at the same time as all our fellow European citizens - to have the same vaccine on the same day, at a much lower cost than a country would take on its own. Because it is another thing to negotiate twenty-seven countries together with another one. And say something. If a country went by itself, would it find vaccines? I'm sure he wouldn't find it. There are other companies that develop vaccines and each country can go. Even the alliance created for the low-income countries, which is trying to secure vaccines for these countries, through the European Union, is trying to ensure these quantities. Therefore, in any case, Europe has worked as Greek citizens, like any other European citizen, will have access to all vaccines at the lowest possible cost, vaccines that meet all the quality, safety and efficacy requirements. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u138	You're welcome. What's the matter? There's no personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u139	Can I explain to you what the matter is? I'll explain it to you right away. The point is, the Minister, Mr. Contozamanis, just said...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u140	He gave clarification to your President's speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u141	It has just made a slander and indeed a slander, Mr President. He said, for the record - I repeat, it's also in the Minutes - that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u142	What characterization?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u143	...if Varoufakis were negotiating, we'd see the binocular vaccine. Is Pythia Mr. Kontozamanis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u144	Members are not answering questions personally concerning other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u145	It's the epitome of the personal matter, and I need a minute. I need a minute, Mr President. I'd be done. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u146	Listen...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u147	How does he speculate? From where does it turn out that if Mr. Varoufakis were to negotiate, we'd see the binoculars...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u148	Wait a minute, let's get together. Here we read the Rules of Procedure all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u149	Where does it come from, Mr President? It's a guess...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u150	Tell me: Is this a personal matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Kontozamanis has the inherited gift?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u152	He explained...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u153	So it's slander. So I ask for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u154	He gave answers to the concerns of your President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, I represent the leader of my parliamentary group, who has been slandered, and I want a minute to tell Mr Contozamanis that it is not what he says. Wait a minute. I've spoken more now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u156	But what can you tell him in a minute? It's none of your business.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u157	I should like to say to him, Mr President, that it is not very good to assume that if someone else were to rule, we would see the Binocular vaccines when we ourselves rule, two weeks ago, two million vaccines and finally bring a hundred and fifty thousand vaccines. With you rulers, we see the Binocular vaccines, Mr. Contozamani...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u158	Mr. Gregoriadis, that's not justified! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u159	...with you who rule and misgovernment!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u161	They are waiting for Members and they are taking the floor ten times, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u162	Listen. Personalities, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, shall relate to the person who is brought, either by a slandering expression which affects his or her personality or by altering the contents of his or her speech. It's none of your business.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u163	It's my business.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u164	These are political positions. Please, too! There's no other way. There was an issue the other day and I refer to the Rules of Procedure. We cannot, however, have a card to apply the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Panayotopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u165	Mr. President, do you have to be in Opposition to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Bukkaro, what's the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u167	Look, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u168	However, not on the substance of the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, this is where the Chief of Staff has also spoken, and the Chief of Mera 25 twice a year...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u170	It's understood. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u171	The Rules of Procedure are clear to the parliamentary representatives, but, since they raise the matter in procedural terms, I should like to say something to you. In his honour, the Chief of Officerial Response said 'I do not blame you for the number of vaccines, it is a matter of the European Union'. SYRIZA's spokesman on Saturday morning accused the government of the same issue of criminal indifference. Now, Mr. Varoufakis is coming here...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u172	Is that a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u173	I'm sorry, but it's a point of order, Mr. President. It says: 'I do not blame you on this matter, you are very obedient to the European Union'. It goes on to say that you have 'cribed' because the Minister of Health has made a political assessment and said that if you were to rule, we believe that you could not obtain a single vaccine. Well, that's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u174	The Minister guessed! Two yards and two stations!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u175	The Minister of National Defence has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Skourletis, if you want to speak on a point of order, yes. But answer the substance of the matter, no. I would be happy after the Minister to give you the floor for the procedure. In the process I cannot forbid you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u178	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u179	Wait a minute. Let Mr. Panagiotopoulos finish his...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, they do not respect the Members who are waiting to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u181	Mr. Flouris, do you want to run the procedure? Come on, if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u182	No, Mr. President. But they expect thirty Members to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u183	But that's not how it works. This thing can't be done! Mr Skourletis, Mr Panayotopoulos has to go to the Armaments Committee. Immediately afterwards, I will give you the floor for a minute, but for the procedure. You will not answer Mr. Varoufakis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u184	After giving me the floor, Mr President, I will start because this is where we have to speak when the President-in-Office gives us the floor. I will shortly - because it is clear about the issues - on the proposed provisions of the Ministry of National Defence in the draft law that we are debating. These are included in Articles 119 to 123 and aim, on the one hand, at a continuous increase in the combat capacity of the Armed Forces, in particular the Hellenic Navy, but also at issues of constant concern for military and civilian personnel and, on the other, to provide incentives and rewards for the offer in terms of professional - hierarchical - I would say - development. Article 119, then, paragraphs 4 and 5. Paragraph 4 of Article 119 extends the validity of Article 63 of Law 4690/2020, which expired on 30-10-2020, for an additional period of six months, until 31-5-2021. This ensures that expenditure on diagnostic, medical and hospital care of military and civil servants of the Ministry of National Defence serving in countries outside the European Union which have been affected or may be affected by the CIVID-19 virus is covered. The regulation includes the members of the families of the military and civil servants who reside with them. As you can see, because in many third countries, outside the European Union, the cost of this care is often disproportionately high and cannot be met by the economic gains of these military and political officials, we come here and facilitate our staff in health care because of the exceptional and exceptional needs that have arisen due to COVID -19. Paragraph 5 of Article 119 extends the supervision of the Construction Cooperative of Permanent Officers of the Hellenic Army, which is to say, by the Ministry of National Defence for one year, until 31 December 2021, in order to resolve some major time issues of a management and economic nature before the OOMAG comes under the Ministry of Finance, as already foreseen. This extension is necessary in order to complete outstandings relating to cooperative programmes and then to bring them into the Ministry of Finance. Article 120, ‘Professional Armours Qualifications — Amendment to Article 2 of Law 2936/2001’. With this article we extend the age limit as an qualification for participation in the recruitment procedures of professional soldiers, known NDPs, from the 20th to the 30th year of age only for those who serve in the ranks of Armed Forces as Boat Reclassifiers, OBA. The logic of this intervention is to seek to strengthen the institution of the PDO - professional soldiers, i.e. - with already qualified and experienced personnel, ODA servants, in order to better serve the needs of the Armed Forces, especially in subordinates, in positions of operational and technical expertise, which also require appropriate training. Article 121, “Crisis and promotion of officers from Higher Military Staff Schools (SCS) and permanentised volunteers – permanent volunteers permanentised – Replacement of Article 37 of Law 4494/2017”. It concerns active officers from PSY - the Higher Military Schools of Officials - and the corresponding officers as described in Article, permanentised and permanentised volunteers and volunteers, subject to the provisions on crisis and promotions under Law 4439/1996 and having completed twenty-five years of real military service until 31/12/2015. Here we come and heal a legislative omission of Article 37 of the law of 2017, as I told you, on the basis of which they had submitted to Law 4439/1996 on crisis and promotion issues, regarding the calculation of the service time required to be filled in to the degrees of Captain and Major and corresponding other branches of the Armed Forces for promotion to the next degree, i.e., Major and Vice-Secretary respectively. With this arrangement, the service time of a permanent officer will be calculated beyond his thirteen years of ranking. In this way, we simply come and behave, that is, we give similar treatment in similar cases, without discrimination. And because there has also been a debate on subsequent classes, I will respond - if necessary - to that too. But now we are going to regulate what is relevant to the 1990 PSY class. In fact, justice is attributed to this group of officers. The last two articles, Articles 122 and 123, respectively, regulate the well-known question of extending contracts on the one hand, on the other hand, two rapid patrol operations of the Hellenic Navy, which are built at the Elefsina Shipyards, and on the other hand, Article 123 concerns submarines maintained and shipped to the Scaramaga shipyards. As far as Article 122 is concerned, we still have two missiles built. One is almost complete, the other goes for integration in the Elefsina shipyard. This provision gives an extension to the schedule for the construction and construction of these fireflies for another three months, until 31-3-2021, so that they can be as quickly as possible attributed to the Hellenic Navy for full operation, as there is a need to carry out these shipbuilding operations. The program's continuing. The competitive procedure for these yards has not been completed. It should not be right, or should it be appropriate for workers to live and work in uncertainties. So we are coming to extend - what we have already done for too many quarters and six months - the convention, namely, building these submarine fireflies in Elefsina, the Scaramaga shipyard, for three more months. At the same time, this extension is financed with the necessary funds. In addition, EUR 3 575 000 is planned to cover payroll, insurance contributions for workers, operating expenses and supplies of materials and services for the completion of the programme in Elefsina. In Scaramaga, the corresponding amount is EUR 13,700,000 for the quarter regarding the coverage of these three categories, namely payroll, operating expenses and technical support and materials for the completion of the programme. I think that this House agrees with the well-known, I am simply asking for these provisions to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u185	Mr Minister, please do not go away, because there are colleagues asking for clarification on these provisions. Mr. Skourletis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u186	Mr President, I would like the floor for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Bouquet, please! After I told you I'd give you the floor. The Minister's not leaving. Here, Mr Skourletis, you have the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u188	Mr President, I have asked for the floor on a very serious procedural and at the same time political issue and a question of democracy. When the Chief of Staff Response calls for the convening of the Standing Committee of Institutions and Transparency...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u189	What's the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u190	What did you say, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u191	If I understood correctly, you said it was a matter of democracy and something was wrong. I didn't hear it. Please explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u192	But that's what I'm trying to do, Mr. President. If you had left me, I'd be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u193	Here you go, Mr. Skourletis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, today I see you a little upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u195	We stayed behind in time and then you protest. They're waiting for a bunch of colleagues. The Heads of State and Government have also rightly been here, and we have kept the time. Come on, Mr. Skourlet, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u196	I say, Mr President, that, when the Chief of Staff Response raises a point of order, which is at the same time a deeply democratic and political issue, the convening of the Committee on Institutional Affairs and Transparency, to see the subject of the parallel system for recording cases, which has been a central political issue, according to complaints within and outside the House, is not a procedural issue, as Mr Vorides said, nor is it a simple...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u197	That's a matter of substance, Mr. Skourlet. See? Answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u198	Please, Mr President, let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u199	Yeah, but you're getting away.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u200	I repeat that, at the same time, it is not a simple long-term amendment to violate the Constitution with what Mrs Keramea has done. These things are unheard of! These are democratic issues! They are matters of democracy at the level of the institutions. The issues of democracy are also the things that are happening outside these days, which young children are allegedly dragging on forcuption, that is what we saw happening on 6 December and 17 November. These are democratic issues! And you will not prevent us from discussing these issues here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u201	But you are not consistent, because you said you would talk about the procedure and talk about other matters. It can't be done, Mr. Skourlet! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u202	At some point a brake has to be in.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u203	You cannot answer every minister! You can't do that!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u204	You cannot, on the grounds of pandemic, trample down democratic procedures. Mr President, the government and you must take care of the procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u205	So you see? You got away while you said you'd talk about another thing. Here you go, Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, I would like to clarify the provisions. I would like to address the Minister of National Defence for Article 121 of today's bill. Mr Minister, rightly so, you are right to incorporate into Law 4439/1996 those admitted to the Higher Military Schools of Officials, the so-called PSY 1990. It's a matter of simulation, a constant request. You have come and you are really solving this issue. However, as you know much better than I do, there are the SACs 1991 and 1992. So I would like you to tell us what your intentions are, in the context of the equitableness with which we should deal with the same cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u207	Is there another colleague who wants to be clarified by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u208	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u209	Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u210	I would like to ask the Minister a small question, Mr President. I see that these projects are constantly being extended, such as torpedoes, at an extra cost each time. I would therefore like to ask whether there is any provision for when this whole situation will end. Do you know when it'll end? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u211	Here, Minister, you have the floor. Please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u212	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u213	Mr. Polakis, would you like some clarification from the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u214	No, Mr President, on a point of order...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u215	We'll see if there's a point of order. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u216	I shall be brief, Mr President, so that the debate on the bill can continue. With regard to what Mr Bukokouros asks, I have also said from the Step in the parliamentary control procedure that there will also be concern for the 1991 order. So at a later stage the 1991 PSCs and we'll see where we can get it. As you can see, the limit is in the order of 1992. So today the turn has come to regulate an old-time unfinished one, the one about the 1990 order. However, we have expressed the positive intention to regulate the loose ends for the remaining classes, so that we can simply assimilate the treatment of similar cases across the spectrum. So, yes, we intend to come. However, today we had to legislate for the 1990s, as it is also in the posthumous phase of their hierarchical development. As for what Mr Villard asked me, look, if I had a full view of the competitive procedure for the two shipyards, I could give you an image. I don't have it. She's running. I had made the prediction, probably the wish, that's the last extension. I guess I had made the wish not that extension that we are voting on today, but that which we brought in three months ago should be the last three-month extension for the two shipyards. Unfortunately, this was not possible because the procedure for the next day for the potential investment in the two shipyards is going slowly. I really hope - and this is my wish - that is the last extension that will be needed in the next quarter to have a different status, but equally or more functionally both shipyards - and Elefsina and Scaramaga - for the benefit of the Hellenic Navy and the Armed Forces, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u217	Here, Mr Polakis, you have a minute to tell us about the procedure. If you get to the bottom of the issues, I don't know if you're a speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u218	No, Mr President, I am not.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u219	Then you can't. I don't know if you're one of those people who was appointed for the Chamber. But in any case, you have one minute to tell us on a point of order. Don't embarrass me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u220	I did not ask for the floor on a point of order, but on a personal note.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u221	What's personal, Mr. Polakis? Nobody mentioned you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u222	He mentioned before Mr. Kikilis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u223	No, I don't know that. Nobody mentioned. You should be here to answer Mr. Kikilia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u224	I know, but I couldn't answer that because Mr. Varoufakis was given the floor! That's the point. He made a report here, Mr. Contozamanis...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u225	I will read the Minutes to you what Mr Kikilias said, and then I will give you the floor, if there is a staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u226	Look at the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u227	I'm applying the Rules of Procedure enough, because we're going the next day. My colleagues are all waiting, they're sending out protest messages here. The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u228	Mr. President, again the Minister of Labour?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u229	Please bring me Mr. Kikilia's minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u230	But the Minister spoke!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u231	What can we do, gentlemen? These are the amendments. What can we do? Do not know about the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u232	The House decides, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u233	It has been agreed here by the previous President-in-Office and he told me that this is the order. I didn't fix it. With the consent of the House. Mr. Skourletis, you don't decide what's going to happen here. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u234	It is clear, Mr President, that SYRIZA and Mr Skourlet do not want me to be placed because they are deeply exposed. I'm saying this because I heard Mr. Tsipras open... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] To ask for the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u235	Please proceed to the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u236	Mr President, I would like to respond to the inaccuracies of Mr. Tsipras...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u237	He's mocking us in the face.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u238	...in false evidence that he gave to the House, and which he's currently...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u239	Wait a minute, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u240	Who do you say that to? to the Minister or to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u241	What do you want now? Listen. I'm saying it in general. I know that public meetings, wherever they are held, in the broad sense of both Parliament and the church and everywhere, have the issue of being a spectacle and watching the whole of Greece. We won't turn the House into a theater. It's a spectacle, but it won't be done. Well, Mr. Brutsi, please for your amendments. Leave what Mr. Tsipras said. Mr. Tsipras answered Mr. Kikilias.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Tsipras asked him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u243	If, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u244	Mr Tsipras referred to twenty-five times to Mr Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u245	So if it relates to an amendment that you have tabled, of course, to clarify it, but please, not at a personal level.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, on a personal level I do not respond because I like this controversy, but here we are talking about real elements...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u247	I wasn't here to see what he said to you personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u248	...referred to orally as Chief of Police, who served as Prime Minister. I have to correct them so that the House can be properly informed. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras opened up an area in which he did not have to, because he has been deeply exposed in the four and a half years. I told Mrs Ahtsoglou and SYRIZA to leave the past, because the world cares about the future and the future we have caught it, to solve the problem of 'five years'. Well, doesn't Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA hear that SYRIZA was hiding pensions in bags? Haven't they learned at this time that they were changing the pension application protocol? Did they not know that Hallaris Christos, under the terms of the Minister of Labour, said "all in light" and that the country's delays were written for the first time and which are published for the first time? Does Mr Tsipras not know that, in four and a half years, fifty-five Members of the New Democracy asked questions about the pensions and did not come to the House to answer, either in time or in written questions? And are they talking about democracy and transparency today?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u249	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u250	Ladies and gentlemen, I am going more specifically. Just a few months ago, the country got a 700 million loan from the ESS. It was the so-called "yellow card", said SYRIZA that he took for the pensions and the rest. What's the truth? So I say it for the first time here in Parliament to find out what happened. SYRIZA in March 2017 received a EUR 1.2 billion loan to give the main pensions from the ESS. In the same year it took 1.2 billion to give the one. Do you know what that money was? Was it the surpluses that she was throwing at the insurance company and swinging at us that we have a surplus in the budget with which, in fact, what did she do? Let me tell you the alchemy. First alchemy. You were presenting the loans of the ESM, which are not surpluses in the insurance and, secondly, the remaining pensions were hidden in sacks and herrings. That's the truth. Today, Mr Regling, on behalf of the ESS, has said the word'short time'. 'Cause we got the dose. Because they don't look SYRIZA, New Democracy, but why they look at the country as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u251	Four hundred thousand pensions have been reduced by Mr. Reggling.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u252	Mr. Skourlet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u253	He's laughing at us, Mr. President, and you can tolerate it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u254	He's in time to talk and answer. It's his department's responsibility, and he's right to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u255	He talked two and a half minutes and he hasn't said anything about...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u256	People judge whether he's telling truths or not. You can't interrupt! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Then, if there are any other speakers, let them answer. But you can't now interrupt. He'll say whatever the Minister wants on his subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u257	So listen, for the Greek people to know. I didn't want to tell the House. But since Mr. Tsipras challenged me, I'm on it. Why did we take the dose, though? We increased pension outstandings and got a dose? How did that happen? Did they do the grace in New Democracy? Oh, no. It was because the deadlines were as follows. It was EUR 220 million in health - a prerequisite for the loan - which was reduced to EUR 20 million today. Secondly, the 140 million in one-off reductions to 35. Thirdly, in bags of 45 000 funeral expenses for workers, we have given them all for the issue of the main pensions. He congratulated the European Commission through the institutions for the "ATLAS" system because he said that you are taking the green light, because for the first time we will give solutions to the country's dues only with the "ATLAS" system. This is the answer and the amendment that the House is required to vote on, is for farmers in particular, in order to allow e-ECA, because it is the aim of the government, as they have the special insurance scheme, as they receive a pension in a second with the 'ATLAS', will be the first to zero the pensions due at the end of April 2021. I therefore call for the amendment for farmers to be supported on all sides of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u258	Mr. Besiropoulos has the floor. Because colleagues must also know the provisions which are the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. And you and Mr Zavvos will be given the floor so that they can know and ask for any clarification. Please, soon. Mr. Brutsis only made four minutes out of five. Please imitate him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u259	Are you telling me this, Mr. President? Mr President, a placement is on the articles of my Ministry and the Ministry of Shipping, because Mr Plackotakis is missing. It's normal for me to do. Would you like me to wait for some colleagues to talk first?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u260	Good. Mr. Zavvos then has the floor. Will you speak, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u261	Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with an amendment tabled today, an extension is granted to the 'GEYRA' programme and to the start of the implementation of the Second Opportunity and Settlement Code. This is Article 1 amending Article 76 of Law 4714/2020. With regard to the ‘GEFYRA’ programme, on the grant of first-stage loans from the financial impact of the coronary pandemic, it is extended by three months, i.e. until 30 April 2021, the deadline within which beneficiaries of the ‘GEFH’ programme may regulate their non-serving loans in cooperation with the banks and the management companies. After the completion of the arrangement, the beneficiaries will receive the State grant of their loan, totalling nine months. It is also extended by three months, i.e. until 31-3-2021, to the beneficiaries of the ‘GEFT’ programme, which have provided loans, but are still in a state aid suspension scheme. This extension was deemed necessary, in particular following the announcement by the Union of Greek Banks with a view to joining a loan suspension programme or extending the existing suspension of payments of loans until 31-3-2021. In any case, the nine-month state grant of the ‘GEYRA’ programme may begin by 1 April 2021 at the latest. We recall that the first twenty-six thousand fifty-nine programme beneficiaries from last month benefited from the first phase of state subsidy payment amounting to EUR 9.9 million, which corresponds to the forty-two thousand four hundred nine-nine loans. At the end of December, the next payment of the State grant to the beneficiaries is to be made. And on the Second Opportunity Settlement and Settlement Code, the implementation of the law is extended. This is Article 2, which amends the provisions of Articles 263, 265, 308 of Law 4738/2020. For natural persons, households and small businesses with a property of up to 350,000, the out-of-court settlement procedure and the provision of a second chance with effect from 1 June 2021 is extended for five months. For medium and large enterprises and natural persons with an operational activity with a property of more than EUR 350,000 and a turnover of more than EUR 700,000, the resolution and provision of a second chance procedure shall be extended for two months, with effect from 1 March 2021. Furthermore, with legislative improvement we are tabling, the Minister for Finance is empowered to regulate all relevant issues relating to insurance and reinsurance undertakings based in the United Kingdom for the period after 31/12-2020, i.e. the end of the transitional period provided for in the Great Britain agreement from the European Union. We think it is necessary to deal with exceptional circumstances which may arise if, by 31 December, the trade agreement - as provided for - is not reached in the United Kingdom's withdrawal agreement from the European Union. Recall that Article 68 provides for the continuation of the activity of insurance and reinsurance undertakings established in the United Kingdom with respect to those insured until 31/12/2020. Also - and we had the opportunity to refer to it on Friday in committee - there are amendments concerning interbank commissions for card-based payments. In particular, measures for the implementation of Regulation 751/2015 shall be adopted in Articles 60 and 62 thereof. That is how we determine the competent authorities, the sanctions imposed by each of them and the ways in which disputes are resolved. As we have said, this is a set of provisions that we are introducing. The Bank of Greece, the General Secretariat of the Consumer and the Competition Committee are to be co-operated. Another point, Mr President, is Article 63, in which responsibility is clarified between the competent authorities implementing Regulation 2060/2012. I would like to say that this regulation concerns direct payment market charges for credit institutions, electronic money institutions and payment institutions. And I shall end by referring to Article 65 - it is an amendment - which extends the time of the regular general meetings of this year, 2020, of the urban cooperatives until April 2021. You realise that the pandemic has forced us to take emergency measures which have been imposed and have in many cases prevented these conventions from being held in time. At the same time and without exception from the relevant provision in the respective statutes, we are giving an extension to the term of office of the boards elected during the annual general meetings, as well as those elected at another time and their term of office expired or ends in 2020 and could be extended by decision of the board of directors as the next regular general meeting. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u262	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u263	Tell me, Mr. Besiropoulos, do you have an amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u264	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u265	Let's see if there's any staff, as you said, from Mr. Kikilia. Wait. They haven't been cleaned. They're cleaned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u266	You weren't here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u267	Mr. Pollack, I've become clear. I wasn't the one who betrayed me. You weren't here. If you were here, you had to ask the floor then right away. You didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u268	No, because Mr. Varoufakis got the floor. Mr President, we would have finished this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u269	But I'm telling you something you don't know. You have a right to the staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u270	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u271	You guys will listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u272	Mr President, you were not in the Chamber. Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u273	You'll find out the Rules of Procedure. Well, what I'm going to say now is in favour of your personal matter. The Rules say that staff can suggest it by the end of the sitting. You didn't. You weren't in the Chamber, you weren't a speaker, and you came...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u274	I was in the room.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u275	You should have done it then. Wait till the cleanlines are here. Since we don't have the cleansed minutes, how will you know where you weren't here? Because if you were here, you'd ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u276	Let me go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u277	We're done. I answered you. We're done, Mr. Polakis. You'll expect the cleansed minutes to come.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u278	Mr President, leave the capsules!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u279	Please do not write anything in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u280	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u281	Mr Vésyropoulou, please, there are five minutes to the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u282	It is not just the amendments, Mr President. It's the articles of the Treasury tax policy bill. At the same time, I must support the articles of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs of Mr Placiotakis, because he is missing. I will also speak about the articles of the Ministry of Island Policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u283	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic is an emergency situation and the management of the pandemic requires emergency measures, which will provide solutions. Those who function rationally and do not try to invent tensions and meaningless controversy are fully aware of it. The provisions on mobile units to be carried out by rapid test, the possibility of providing home-to-house health care services, the introduction of the possibility of private doctors' employment in public hospitals, the ordering of means of transport if there is a need for cross-border transport, the strengthening of land and public transport, the regulation of citizens' debts to the local authorities are institutional interventions with the nature of emergency in the circumstances in which we live. The same applies to provisions aimed at speeding up the award of pensions or to those relating to tax policy, which include measures of financial relief with a strong social character. After all, the government, by emergency measures, supported the real economy and the vulnerable social groups. I shall then refer to the provisions of the Multilateral Plan on Tax Policy. In particular, I am referring, first of all, to the exemption from VAT for vaccines authorised by the European Union, the diagnostic tests aimed at preventing and diagnosing COVID -19 and the services closely linked to them, making use of the possibility afforded us by the Union Directive 2020/2020, which is integrated into the national network. Secondly, the inclusion of disabled people with more than 80% in existing expropriatory provisions concerning the registration fee and passenger car traffic charges up to a thousand six hundred cubic cubic metres. Thirdly, the reduction of VAT for species intended to help disabled people, which will henceforth be subject to the excessively reduced VAT rate of 6%, from 13% until now. Fourthly, the non-enforcement of fines in tax situations for cross-checking calendar year 2014 information submitted from 21-1-2016 up to 25-1-2016. In particular, fines imposed will be cancelled and, if fines have been imposed and received, they will be offset by future tax debts and, in the absence of any debts, they will be repaid. Fifthly, support for the press release, newspapers and periodicals in Greece, which has also been affected by the pandemic, by covering transport costs for the distribution of these forms. All of these are tax relief measures with social protection, social sensitivity measures, such as the provisions on our fellow humans who are facing a problem of vision. However, there are also measures aimed at facilitating citizens, such as: First, the provision allowing citizens to submit late notifications of real estate data relating to tax years from 2010 onwards and submitted or to be submitted from 31-12/2014 until such time as the real estate data has been posted to the entire Greek territory. These statements may be submitted without the imposition of a fine by the tax administration, since the aim is to enable fellow citizens to proceed to the correct display of their property until the suspension of the property data throughout Greece. Secondly, the extension of the deadline for the withdrawal of the cash machines set out in the AIA Commander's Decision MOL 1196/2017 until 31-3-2021 in order to facilitate retail operations. In the same direction, the provision allows accountants who were patients and who were hospitalized because of COVID -19 to submit all kinds of statements by their clients at a later date, namely the following month from the month when they were discharged. Finally, a regulation on the taxation of gambling profits is introduced. According to this, a total of EUR 100 to EUR 200 is taxed at a rate of 2.5%, profits from EUR 200 to EUR 500 per card with a 5% rate and profits per card of more than EUR 500 at a rate of 7.5%. It is noted that part of this amount is available to support Greek sport. With a view to adapting the computerised systems to the new tax system, the new provision shall enter into force on 1 March 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, you will also allow me to refer to the provisions of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, due to the absence of the relevant Minister, Mr Placiotakis. In interpreting the feelings of colleagues from all the wings of the House, I would like to express our wishes to Yiannis Plakkatakis for rapid recovery and return to his duties. The bill contains provisions that: Firstly, the supply of fuel from free trade is practically impossible in many cases. Consequently, and in particular Articles 95 and 96, for the last time, it is always with the agreement of the Independent Public Procurement Authority, the exceptional supply of fuels by competitive procedures of the Ministry's central office, in order to avoid the risk of immobilising the operational means of the Port Authority and the ship owners of the shipyards. Secondly, the provision of Article 97 provides for an extension of the proof of seaworthiness for six months which expired or are to expire until March 2021, with the possibility of further extension if the circumstances so require. This will allow our seafarers to be taxed and work unannouncedly on ships at this difficult juncture, but also to replace other seafarers, who, because of the koruna, remain on board ships for longer than is foreseen in their contracts of employment. Thirdly, Article 98 confirms the government's determination to continue to support Greek seafarers. To that end, provision should be made for the extension of the special purpose compensation for the months of November and December 2020, support for those who are or are suspended, the continuation of their healthcare, and an explicit ban on the termination of their contracts of employment. Fourthly, Article 99 ensures the uninterrupted maritime transport service of the island regions until May 2021 by means of public service contracts, for rent, for specific routes. Fifthly, Article 100 regulates specific economic issues for redirecting the funds of the regulated Public Port Authority to strengthen the Public Investment Programme for Projects of the General Secretariat of Ports and Port Policy, ensuring particularly important resources for carrying out their work. Finally, Article 101 ensures the necessary water supply of our islands by means of temporary desalination units up to 31/12-2022, as it was not possible to obtain a permanent permit for establishment and operation in 2020. This arrangement saves resources, as it avoids multiple costs of transporting water to the islands and at the same time ensures the aqueous autonomy of these regions. Ladies and gentlemen, from the contents of the provisions I have mentioned, I really find it difficult to understand how any negative vote could be drawn up. The government over the past period, but also for as long as necessary, takes measures to support those who prove to be entitled to them and need them. The context requires constant vigilance for new measures to be taken, to update existing measures and foreseeability to deal with problems that may arise in the future. The introduction of the new regulation of twelve instalments at zero rates or twenty-four instalments at a rate of 2.5% for all natural and legal persons affected by the coronary virus and their certified debts suspended until 31-4-2021 and the provision of a second chance to those who at that time could not respond to the regulation of a hundred or a hundred twenty-three instalments or extrajudicial mechanism, by reviving the specific arrangement they had with all its benefits, giving them the opportunity to reinstate themselves, confirm that we are moving rationally. Our aim is to enable all citizens to fulfil their obligations. At the same time, the institutionalised support measures of EUR 31.5 billion help to keep the vast majority of Greek businesses alive and keep jobs. The citizens themselves appreciate the effort of the government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The Greek society requires all of them to make political and realistic proposals, which give hope and a way out. The control of pandemic through vaccination will also mean the principle of development effort for the Greek economy. This effort requires a structured plan, coherent and strong governance. This information is identifiable by the citizens in the person of the Prime Minister and is reflected in all measurements of public opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u285	Please, if there are any...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u286	Mr. President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u287	Mr. President, will we ever talk? Four hours we wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u288	Mr. Catarini, I don't understand. So, in specific provisions or amendments, if Members want to ask for clarification, we do not give them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u289	Does the rapporteur not ask and will the parliamentary representative ask?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u290	How do you know? Well, who wants clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u291	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u292	Please, Mr. Bukoro, but soon, in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u293	First of all, Mr President, I have not exhausted my first speech. It's the second minute of the twelve I'm entitled to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u294	They are basic provisions of the bill and concern the Ministry of Trade Shipping, but could not come to develop them, which is why more time was given. Here you go, Mr. Bukoro, we're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u295	Minister, indeed all of the provisions come to cure wounds that pandemic has opened. I would like to dwell on Article 66. It is right that your Ministry decides to cover some of the costs of transporting and distributing the pan-Hellenic traffic forms. The forms, newspapers are a factor of cooling and balance in the good of information, of real cooling and balance, unlike the internet and the rest of the media, where the 'grey zones' instead of decreasing. Therefore, you are doing very well and coming to cover some of the costs, because the loss of income from the pandemic was too great in the forms of pan-Hellenic traffic. But, Minister, I would like to take note of you - and I think that you have also received relevant statements from operators - that transport and distribution costs are also borne by the regional press. And it also has an extra cost a large part of the regional press, which is its printout outside the home, transport costs and not distribution. In three ways, the cost of regional newspapers is borne by transport and distribution: the cost of the central agency, to the extent that they are shared by it, the cost of private agencies in their areas for the distribution of newspapers and the transport costs of the central printers in the region. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] I would like to take note of you, Minister, that some forty worthwhile regional newspapers are printed in the 'Niko EDIC', 'Kathimerini', in the printing works of Barla in Athens. And this reduces transport costs at a time when their revenues were affected by Lockdown and the pandemic. I would therefore like to ask you whether you are concerned with this matter and whether you have seen the statements sent to you by the relevant bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u296	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, Article 66 does indeed refer to undertakings which issue all-embracing forms and provide financial support for transport costs. Then we were also asked by the business of the provincial press. We are also considering this possibility of supporting measures to support the provincial press, either by subsidising transport costs, or by other means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u298	Minister, Mr. Georgiadis, do you have any amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u299	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u300	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u301	Thank you very much, Mr President. Happy birthday already, Merry Christmas! Don't forget it. So I am going to one by one in my amendments and I will leave the last one that has caused a fuss. I'm astonished for the reason, but whatever you want to do. Firstly, the amendment entitled ‘Receipt and exercise of e-commerce activity for retailers operating under a franchising agreement’. This is due to end date, i.e. until 31-3. If he prolongs, he's going to say that the pandemic is too long. Why are we bringing this amendment? Because we have located now that we made the famous click away - you have heard it, I imagine - companies that are with franchising had signed the contract that what is electronic commerce and from an electronic page only belongs to the parent company. And the company that had a branch of the hi chain in Trikala, Corinth, Thessaloniki or a neighborhood, was allowed to sell only retailers in the natural store. So now that we've all allowed everyone to click away to win customers, they're told from the motherfather: "Oh, you're not selling. Pick up the orders, sell them." That's not fair, guys. They have to get out like everybody else. To be found with the prerogative after the pandemic when the other one can open his shop. Now that it's closed, I can't think that someone can have a serious disagreement about it. As for the regulation on Lamia and the Pan-Hellenic Exhibition, we are not discussing it. We were asked by the Municipality to be able to legalise costs for the cleansing of the Lamia Panhellenic Exhibition. You know the case. On SYRIZA you voted for the law that you gave 30% in the Region, 30% in the Municipality, 30% in the Chambers, etc. It hasn't worked that shape yet. We'll see what we'll do. As long as the shape is not working, however, there has become a dump site. And the Municipality asked us to be able to spend money to clean up the Lamia Panhellenic Exhibition. Again, there is no political disagreement on that. The following: 'Removal of exceptional measures of responsibility of the Ministry of Development and Investment'. These are all the laws that we had voted on within COVID and we had dates for market control, etc. The pandemic was supposed to end on the day and now it's going until March 2021. It's supposed to be over until March 2021. Everything's been voted on from the past. It's just changing the date as the pandemic goes. Now for the national framework of shops, it says that for a period of time which cannot exceed six months from the entry into force of this Treaty and since the Minister for Health states that there is COVID and pandemic, the Minister for Development can be working hours. Again, for the market to function, we have to open 7.00', open 8.00', open 10.00' the time, depending on the intention of adjusting the market, so that there is no crowd. Once again, we must have legislative powers for this, because the previous one has expired. I'm leaving the setting for Sundays lately. ‘Additional State Budget for the financial year 2020; a public investment budget’. Here we are increasing the co-financed Public Investment Programme by 200 million again. What for? You've seen the paintings we've taken. We have been first in Europe to absorb ESDP funds. The better we go to absorbing the NRP funds, the more we need an increase in the co-financed PPP to pay the costs. Although you know that, I am simply saying this about the Minutes: we are paying the expenditure and then applying to the European Commission and paying us the costs we have paid. But in order for the European Commission to pay us, we must first have paid. Because we have covered all the appropriations for this year, we are increasing - take note - not in 2021, we are not affecting the budget that we have voted on. It is an increase of 2020, this year, that is, 200 million. “Hellenic Development Bank Management Costs for the program “EXOCOCOMO - AUTONOMO””. Mr President, you know that for sure, because you are a man involved in investment. The EXOCONOMO - AUTONOMOS programme is already running at a very high speed throughout the territory and has absorption, perhaps the most successful programme of the ESRB. In order to function smoothly and not to delay, as the previous ones, we have already commissioned - the SYRIZA Government has already done - and we follow it - the management of the files, the control of the files to be carried out by the Greek Development Bank. So far, however, the cost of management has been borne by the NRP. That's how it was reduced the amount we could reduce. Now, the management expenditure is being spent on the Public Investment Programme so that a higher figure can be made available. That is to say, the expenditure on the Greek Development Bank is paid by us, the budget, so that this money can be exceeded, so that some millions more of the various regions can take up, which will be done with the "EXECONOMOS - AUTONOMO" programme, can't be imagined. I can't tell the House now. You know what's going on. You don't have to. So I can't imagine how he can have political stakes. ‘Implementation of co-financed projects by the Ministry of Development and Investment’, Article 73. That's very typical. When we voted for the final state and passed the responsibilities to sign the various projects by the Secretariat-General for Industry, for a short time the Secretariat-General for Industry was signed, and we had passed responsibilities with the Minister-General of the Ministry. We therefore say that all signatures are legal, since the legal and public procurement documents required have been registered in the Central Public Procurement Register and the relevant competitive procedures under Law 4412 have been complied with. I mean, we don't have to do any more competitions from the beginning because the signature has changed. And that's what I think it's not gonna be a fuss. Now, all that's left is the Sunday critic. It's Article 72. As far as I know, there has been a request for a roll-call vote here. I'm here to give some clarification if we can save time. First of all, as you can see, the article is a repetition of old article. You understand that from the fact that he's in the cleansing room.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u302	It's a royal decree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u303	It's a royal decree, that's right. We haven't changed anything. What have we changed now in the Royal Decree? We've added the pharmacopoeia. Why have we added the pharmacopoeia? It is a request for drugs and drug stores, because of the time we are going through, to be able to distribute drugs and Sundays. Especially now, when we get into the vaccines and the rest, it's something that's very urgent, they told us. We put in the warehouses. In all other exceptions, that is, drug stores can work. Okay, although that's why you want to make a denomination, you do. What else are we in? We have set four lines, i.e. in the article that has been in force since the era of the monarchy in Greece. I imagine the people who are against the monarchy will be pleased to change the royal decree! I'm going through this, humor is doing, to God, and now I'm coming to the major. We added four lines. Mr President, I read them, Mr President: "For the delivery of goods to consumers who have been ordered from a distancer telephone or from an electronic supermarket, supermarkets, and any other commercial store as a distribution and delivery centre shall be considered as the natural retail shop and its warehouses.". I mean, it's allowed to work on the click away and on Sundays. Who do we allow it to? At the shopping stores we know, so they can work on Sundays as well. Why do we say that? And always, I mean, it's just for the COVID period and it'll be removed once the COVID period is over. It's just that there's no crowd on the streets because we've been told by experts. That's why they told us to take it from 7:00 in the morning. In other words, we have extended the working hours, but also in days, because all the anxiety about the pandemic is not to what we call "big social mobility". If you want to make nominal for this article, it's like you're telling all shops that have click away orders for Sunday not to hand them over for Sunday, but deliver them on Monday. Okay, obviously it's your right to make a denomination, but I really don't think there's any reason. But if you insist, you'll do it. I believe it will pass by a large majority. However, all the other articles, except for the pharmacopoeia and the four lines I told you, are the royal decree that has long been in force, which I had not been born. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u304	However, investments with royal decrees...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u305	If you raise the issue of changing the law on exceptions and on Sundays, Mr President, this is a nice debate. For now the royal decree has been closed on Sunday, because here are the exceptions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u306	As you know, this conversation had taken place. It's not something taboo. Mr. Katrinis wants the floor on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u307	I apologise to colleagues, but I would like to say to Mr Georgiadis that great social mobility occurred in Greece only in the 1980s, on the PASOK governments, by Andreas Papandreou, who has publicly said that they destroyed the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u308	Thank you. Before we continue with our fellow Members, is there any other question about the amendment? Because I understand that Mr. Georgiadis is going to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u309	I'd like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u310	Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u311	We have asked our position to withdraw Article 72. There's no reason in the warehouses to work on Sundays. There is nothing to do with the shops, of course. After all, we are talking about social dismissal. So when this is where you give gentlemen the opportunity to work the shops on Sundays, do you understand what has to be done? You have great responsibilities here. Of course, apart from the fact that it abolishes Sunday's holiday - because this will be done in practice - you do not even have a date, that this will be the case until March. He says it's because of the COVID, but he doesn't even make a date.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u312	Thank you. We're moving on. What do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u313	Mr Katsotis, it is with great respect that I should like to make it clear about the warehouses that it is not about pharmacies. It's only about warehouses. We were told by the people of this area that they have a huge burden and they need to add a little time to how they work, because they too work with less staff, etc. I repeat, it will apply to the pandemic. It's not something we want forever. We want it so that the crisis that we are currently facing can pass. With regard to the ordering article, the Article shall apply. All we've added is the phone orders. What for? Because the article so far applies to e-shops, i.e. electronic shops, and we also added telephone orders, mainly because I accept that the article, as it stands today, covers only the organised large, websites, and not the small one, who works on the phone. So we give this article and the little one the right. Now, do you seriously want the JRC to say to the House 'I want the article to remain as it stands and only to favour the big one and not to favour the small one'? So you want it to come out as the position of the Communist Party of Greece that it is in favour of large chains and against small ones? Do you want us to finish the conversation like this and make it roll-call? Do it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u314	The procedure is completed. Let's keep something from the king.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u315	...(Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u316	They'll be the workers outside.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u317	Mr. Georgiadis, what you had to say about it. There's nothing else to be said. Mr. Constantine Maraveyas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a large part of the parliamentary debate in the debate on this bill was unfortunately wasted in a gloomy debate on whether we had to discuss today's bill with the urgency procedure. And I am glad to say that our rapporteur, Mr Ploris, has explained in detail the reason behind the urgency procedure in committee last week. It did, in fact, provide concrete examples of provisions to demonstrate the absolute necessity of acceleration. I will ask myself, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, if you will allow me to go backwards: I think it should reflect on all the citizens who are listening to us the fact that SYRIZA refused to support a bill that includes, in general, a large number of apparently urgent but also positive regulations. I wonder why you do not want to settle matters directly, such as the incompatibility and duty-free payment of aid to farmers due to coronary, the prolongation and repayment of the hotel beneficiaries of the 'Tourism for All' programme, the possibility of adjusting the debts to the municipalities in a hundred and twenty instalments, the extension of the publication of public tender notices in the regional and local press, which expired at the end of December, or the extension of the regular unemployment subsidy to other seasonal workers? SYRIZA must also explain to us why it does not urgently consider the need to supply rapid tests until 31-3-2021 to deal with the coronary. He has to say a few words to the citizens who are listening to us in order to justify the fact that he refuses to hold free diagnostic tests for the pandemic as a priority, so that we understand how he can disagree with the emergency dispatch of medicinal products to vulnerable groups or patients who are being restricted. As a doctor, this posture of Officer Opposition seems to me to be incomprehensible. As a Member, however, it is not the first time I have noticed it and it is also a common phenomenon that SYRIZA refuses reality, trying to step on one foot in the need for survival policy and attempting to invent his own reality that suits him. Such phenomena are constantly being seen, with a more recent case of SYRIZA's MP from Thessaloniki, Mr Giannoulis, who asked the government to take horizontal travel restrictions even earlier, but at the same time protesting at the closure of the focus in Thessaloniki. As Mr Mitsotakis said, in such a review "whatever" you cannot confront any serious arguments, because such a confrontation always loses its serious side of seriousness. Mr President-in-Office, this bill does highlight the responsible attitude of the Mitsotakis Government towards the real pressing problems that seek immediate solution. A number of such issues are also trying to deal with the Ministry of Labour. For example, I mention the extension of the 'ACT - WORK' mechanism to support employment in private enterprises, full coverage of the State's insurance contributions by employees, as well as the provisions on speeding up the award of pensions by e-ECA. The main tools for this purpose are the use of officials from other institutions in pension services and the reintroduction of formerly employed pensioners. These are reasonable measures, of course they will be judged by the result. This is where we have to ask ourselves. Once the fund has identified - and rightly so - major gaps in pension awarding services, it raises the question of whether it has tried to cover them through normal mobility. I would remind you that during the last cycle of mobility, just ten days ago, between 12 000 posts requested by public bodies, e-ECA announced only six posts for the award of pensions, two of which concern insured persons from other States or international organisations. This is therefore an issue that we must address not only by emergency but also by systematic measures such as internal mobility in e-ECA. I would like to congratulate the government's financial staff on its social sensitivity with Article 53, which facilitates our blind fellow citizens. At a time of economic hardship and difficulties that our fellow men have no doubt encountered with major visual problems, especially in their movements by public transport, it is truly essential to make it easier for these small and medium-sized enterprises to buy I.C. without registration fees or traffic charges. This is an extension of laws recently passed by the New Democracy and I am pleased to note that this fact is publicly recognised even by the ESDP as a very positive measure of protecting many vulnerable groups. The same applies to the subjecting of multiple types of support to HEIs at the excess rate of VAT imported by Article 53. I close, Mr President, with my thanks to Minister Giannis Vroutsi for the quick reflexes of restoring injustice against OAS workers and e-ECA, after fourteen years of hostage and suffering in the courts, and to the Minister of National Defence Nikos Panayotopoulos to settle the issue of officers from the Higher Military Schools of Staff 1990. I expect together with other colleagues a fair regulation, both for those in 1991 and 1992. It is something in which Mr Panagiotopoulos has been mentioned many times and I am sure he will resolve it very soon for the other two series, in an equally effective and fair manner. Thank you. Happy holidays to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u319	Thank you for your time too. The floor now Mr. Michalis Katrin from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u320	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of a very difficult year for the citizens, a year that gives a bitter taste to the relatives of the victims of the coronary, while dominating insecurity and uncertainty to the people of the market and workers, at this juncture the government reminds us of the darkest side of its legislative self, always in the name of the state that was degraded, of course, in the health crisis. Extensions of direct awards and commissions by way of derogation from the provisions, and during the tenth month of the pandemic. So well prepared was the government! Legalisation of the costs of various bodies, but also of the institutions' decisions on projects under the Public Investment Programme, after a celebration of course. I do not need to comment on the fact that six days after the budget was voted, you review it and who knows how many revisions you will be making in the next period. The most emblematic provision of the bill, however, is that of Article 78, which, after eighteen months in government, brings urgent provision for computer supplies to the operational units of e-ECA, which has led to thousands of pensioners desperately waiting for up to three years to receive a pension, without many times being able to be informed of the course of their request. Farmers don't even get temporary retirement and wait three years. Mr Mulkiotis knows about it in Boeotia and Mr Pappas, who is next to the farmers and fishermen in the Dodecanese, how uncertain and how anxious the farmers are, who cannot get a temporary pension. Three years. Absolute digital transformation of the insurance system into the provisions of this bill. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, please explain why the provision exempting daily hospitals from VAT is urgent. Why is the provision of Article 57 urgent, on the taxation of gambling profits, a provision that had come before in 2014 and was withdrawn, which taxes very small profits and sends players to illegal gambling, leading with mathematical accuracy to less revenues. Who have you discussed this provision with, Mr. Besyropoulou? And I ask why the Panhellenic Federation of OPCW Agents complains that there was no consultation, while they say their incomes are considerably reduced. I'll file the agents' document in the Minutes. Also protests are the Association of Online Games in Greece by letter to the Prime Minister, leaving open the possibility of not participating in the process. I would remind you that double-empty revenues are at EUR 5 million. I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. I ask you directly, Mr Besyropoulos: Who brought you this provision? You have not consulted it with any of the parties involved. Did he come directly from the state, as usual? Ladies and gentlemen, the government, after a year and a half, remembered to deal with the question of bank abusive charges for the electronic transactions of citizens. By virtue of the provisions of Articles 60 and 62, which the Change Movement visited on 17 October on high charges - I will submit to the Minutes - the Bank of Greece, which was also the leader of the Change Movement on 4 November - I will table in the Minutes - and the Consumer Directorate-General, which the Change Movement did not visit, since its political leader, Mr Georgiadis - who has left - has made sure that he does not consider the bank's charges to be too high, but officially in the question we asked him with Mr Mulkiotis, he replied that he is irresponsible. So, orally, Mr Georgiadis agrees in writing that he is unreserved. I also have a report on it, and I'll submit it to the Minutes. Bank charges for which, as a Change Movement, we have made a series of questions and interventions. On 14 October my own timely question to the Minister for Development. I'll submit it to the Minutes. On 17 October, a complaint - question by the European Parliament, Mr Androullakis, about the legality of the charges under Regulation 751. On 21 October we tabled an amendment to ban unfair charges. Rejected by the government. On 24 October, a topical question by Vice-President Constantinople on the same subject. Zero to clay. On 13 March, Question Katrin, Kegeroglou, Scandalidis for the suspension of bank charges in the middle of a pandemic. No energy. On March 30, Moulkiotis, Katrin, Scandalides for the abolition of commissions. No energy. In the last question, which Mr Georgiadis declares unresponsible, the Deputy Minister, Mr Zavvos, present, refers the matter to the Competition Committee and to the General Secretariat of the Consumer, who, through Mr Stabulides, assures us that he is following the matter, while Mr Zavvos answers and sends us a document from the Association of Greek Banks. This is the answer of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, a document from the Association of Greek Banks. I'll testify to that, too. A banking system that had raised liquidity for 40 billion, but its credit expansion in the private sector is a little above zero, as Mr Stournaras said the day before yesterday. Just five billion loans have also been channelled with the guarantee of the Greek State, while the rest of the liquidity is placed in bonds of the Greek State or in cash and that is because eighteen months you do nothing more than sign bank decisions. Now, you are bringing an amendment to the extension of the GEOGRAPHY programme by 31 March. We are still waiting to see how many arrangements have been made, since there is only evidence on the number of applications on the website of the Private Debt Management Secretariat. I'll submit it to the Minutes. I will submit it until the Private Debt Management Special Secretariat has published what Mr Zavvos said before orally, and I challenge him to submit it in the Minutes, to see how much loan subsidies in the GEOFRA programme have been formally granted. It has been five months, ladies and gentlemen, since the 518 million Mitsotakis Government, according to what Mr Zavvos said orally, only 9 million have been allocated. In the same amendment - and I shall end, Mr President - the commencement date is postponed. We have asked you for an amendment, which I will table a few days ago, along with the suspension of auctions, which you have done nothing, and the transfer of fairness from Katseli to the world in the midst of a pandemic to collect documents on taxes and on banks. But here, while you do the self-evident thing, you are completely confused. I'm becoming specific. Listen, Minister: While for natural persons the Banking Code starts on 1 June and for merchants it starts on 1 March - you put two dates - the extrajudicial compromise - which is a process prior to the bankruptcy - starts on 1 June. What do you say to dealers? You're saying you're going to go bankrupt first, after the bankrupt starts on March 1st, and then you're going into the extrajudicial on June 1st? Please get serious and set a single date on 1 July 2021. Of course, it is not clear whether Law 3869 applies until then. Mr President, I shall end in a few seconds. Members have also spoken about the need to subsidise the provincial press to transport costs in proportion to the type of universal traffic. For the Ministry of Shipping, we are voting on the provisions, but they are lacking documentation and there is no white cheque to the Minister. Finally, I would like to say that the end of the deadlocked communication strategy must mean returning politics, with a sense of national responsibility, realism and hope. True, though, hope for the many, the weak, those who strive honestly for the present and the future. We, in the Change Movement, are with those who are struggling honestly for the present and future of the country and, of course, we will fight for the change that the country needs. Because what is really urgent, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is to change the country's political compass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u321	Because I see both Mr Contozamanis and Mr Blondeos here - Mr Kattinis is a dentist - I would like to say that there is a real investment in which we are very much behind. I think what we need to discuss next year - something we can agree on - is health tourism. The country has as many possibilities as any other country in the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u322	Health tourism or medical tourism?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u323	Same thing. Mr Dionysios Stamenitis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a draft law by the Ministry of Health which brings together a number of regulations which come to close loose ends and soldiers - and we could say - in the great effort being made by the government to address the health crisis and meet the needs of the people who are fighting the virus in the first line. At the same time, this draft law includes a number of issues of other ministries. As has been pointed out in committee, it is an attempt to reject and deal with the difficulties arising from the coronary. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic constantly compels us to balance between three key variables. These are, first and foremost, the safeguarding of public health, secondly, the resolution of the problems posed by pandemic and, thirdly, the support of citizens, workers, businesses and, most clearly, of our fellow people who are most vulnerable. These three variables often conflict with each other because, for example, protection of public health brings to a second degree the other social and economic needs. Our weapons in it, without doubt, are direct intervention wherever necessary and to the extent possible. The draft law therefore forms part of this titanic effort that we all do together, state and citizens, since last March by the health regulations and extensions of existing laws, in order to address the major health needs of the health system up to the regulations of the Ministry of Development and Investment, which provide flexible hours of shops, in order to meet the requirements created by the pandemic, but also to ensure the immediate and better service of consumers, to stimulate the market and to strengthen local enterprises and to address bureaucratic obstacles, with the aim of integrating directly into the public transport sector by means of the financing of urban buses from the tender opened up, to update the legal framework for aid to undertakings in the transport sector affected by COVID, until the provisions of the Ministry of Labour's competence to strengthen the structures of the ECA as a whole, so as to clear up as soon as possible, as possible, the hundreds of jobs created by COVID affected transport undertakings, but also to address problems of which have been closed or are being closed down as a result of the risk of having as a result of their scale with regard to either of their scale or as a result of the scale of the scale of the scale of the scale of the reduction of the scale of the scale of the gaps which they have suffered, as they have caused by which they have suffered, as they have suffered, as they have suffered, or have suffered as they have suffered as an impact on the risk of the difficulties in either in either of the scalely populdgrelivering on unemployments, as agregregregrelations, as agregregreements, as agreements, as agreements of thegreement of thegrowing of thegreements, as agreements orgreements, as agreement of thegrowes of thegreements of thegreement of thegreements of thegreements of thegreement of thegreement of thegreements of thegrows of thegreements of thegrows of thegreements of thegreement of thegrears of thegrears of thegrows of thegrows of thegrearsuponlysupon, oradjust So under Article 89, this risk does not exist. The signals are being reduced from a hundred to fifty, so thousands of our fellow citizens will be able to receive the benefit from the Unemployment Fund. Let me say quickly that they are workers who have the right to this benefit and who have received it with a hundred marks, this year they will take it with fifty badges. Also important are the provisions that allow debts to be adjusted to the ATTs in a hundred and twenty instalments. Today, many of our fellow citizens are hostages of these debts to the municipalities and have an obligation to care for them. Furthermore, the number of firms aid paid in the context of actions to address the impact of COVID on the primary sector as irresponsible and tax-free, the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food awaited by our producers, and today they welcome it with satisfaction. Ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Pellas, a region which has been hard hit by the health crisis, which saw its hospitals under increased pressure, which has led to constant lockdown, I can assure you that every measure taken to strengthen the market world, producers of the primary sector, workers, people of health, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs is an important and valuable contribution. So I will today call the contribution of this bill to our efforts as valuable and important. As I pointed out in my position at the committee meeting last Friday, the example of the society that is constantly adapting to new measures and new rules in order to achieve the guarantee of public health must also lead to our own responsibility and thus to legislate with the necessary tools, which will help us to tackle the pandemic itself, namely its health side, but also to support the citizens by addressing the indirect consequences of the health crisis in the economy and other sectors, such as education and labour. In this suffocating context created by pandemic, we have a duty to act and - why not - to consent in the interests of the citizens. This draft law is for the government another legislative initiative towards supporting society and overcoming obstacles. But it is also an opportunity for the opposition to prove that it is interested in the substance and not the impressions. Thank you very much. In closing, I would like to wish everyone a merry Christmas, in health.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u325	Merry Christmas, good holidays. Minister, you have asked for the floor. You have the floor for two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u326	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to make a few clarifications about the intervention of Catarine. I wanted to say that, on the one hand, on the issues of the Banking Code, it is clear what I said that, for natural persons, households, small businesses with a fortune of up to EUR 350,000, the procedure for out-of-court settlement and the provision of a second chance with effect from 1 June 2021 has been extended for five months. I also said that for medium-sized and large enterprises and natural persons with a property of more than EUR 35 000 and a turnover of more than EUR 70 000, the reorganisation and provision of a second chance is extended for two months. And this starts on March 1st, 2021. It is also clear that, with regard to interchange fees, we and we have obviously exerted enormous pressure. At the moment, however, exactly the issues of competence and sanctions are being clarified. And this is a significant step forward - I think - to an important problem, which we have all demonstrated at this time. By listening, though, to you today, if he did not live in this country, he would think that nothing happened this year. Mr Katrin, you were here when we voted for the HERAKLIS programme, the programme aimed at reducing red loans, which in one year gave more than 32 billion euros, without charging the Greek taxpayer a single euro. You were here when we passed the microfinances law so that everyone who is currently excluded from the banking system can have access. You were here when four parties passed the law on corporate governance, so that we do not have the FOLLI-FOLLIE phenomena that have blackened the country here and abroad again. You were here when we voted together on issues relating to the fight against black money. When have you seen these reforms in a year with such a huge impact on the Greek taxpayer and citizen? Why is this all happening? For the banks, for the big businesses or for the Greeks, to whom do we want to give the opportunity to take the liquidity that he and the small and medium-sized enterprises need? Well, please, be objective in our assessments. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u327	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u328	Mr. Catarini, it's not a personal matter now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u329	I want to ask him something.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u330	Here, you have the floor for a minute, please, because Mr. Karathanasopoulos is waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u331	Minister, I would like you to provide me with the information you have given orally on the loan grants of the GFCF programme. I'm entering the General Secretariat website and only has the applications. We have voted on the microfinances. You made a commitment that by the end of the year it would have begun. We have December 21st, nothing has happened. For the program "HERAKLIS" we will invite you immediately after the celebrations to see the success of the programme, because Mr Stournaras proposes the bad bank for six months and the government has not been placed. So after the holidays, we'll see how to make a fund for all of the things you're saying. Until then, however, at last tell how many people have entered the "FYROM" officially, not verbally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u332	Thank you. Bad bank was a different idea, but I don't want to comment, because I'm a president.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u333	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u334	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr President. Obviously, we will provide all the necessary evidence. Also, Mr Katrin, I would ask the President of the Economic Commission to invite us in February to have a full and open debate on what we have done, a full account and also to say what we have to do and to give all the options together. We also welcome the initiative by the Court of Auditors to take over this control of the efficiency of the various institutions, such as the Financial Stability Fund and the Bank of Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u336	Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor. Just for the record to mention that we have had a long debate about the bad bank many years ago. We'll see where it gets.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u337	Mr. President, it's from your weather and it was in the drawer...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u338	Thank you. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President. The collapse of the health system in Greece, but not only in Greece, because it is not a national peculiarity, is a result of the merchandise in health, which all governments in our country have been respectfully serving. This logic of health trade has led to the deterioration of the public health system. So I bring you as an example the closure of hospitals. If I am not mistaken in West Attica there was a hospital of infectious diseases, which, in the context of the abolition of all hospitals for infectious diseases, was abolished and this did not, of course, reopen with another government. We had the deterioration of public hospitals, subsistence, lack of modernisation based on new technology in machinery and infrastructure and, of course, flexible forms of employment for doctors, nurses and paramedical staff. The example of the four thousand workers through the OAED programme, which have renewed contracts and must be simulated in the opinion of the JRC - and that is the point of the amendment - because they cover the standing needs of the health system, is an indication of the efforts that all governments have made to hostage contractors, to renew, whenever they want, contracts, but also on the other hand to recycle the unemployed through such a process. And it is hypocritical that the other parties of the Retirement for various pensioners, whether they are in the health sector or in the field of local administration or in other public bodies, have refused to vote for the abolition of the article prohibiting the conversion of contracts into contracts of indefinite duration. And that's obvious exactly why they did it. They did so today, as a SYRIZA spokesman has done, invoked the constitutional difficulties which prohibit the permanentisation of such contractors. At the same time, through these procedures of downgrading the public system, all governments supported the private health sector, which was upgraded, modernised, strengthened, and even strengthened in conditions of pandemic, not only does it not suffer the consequences, but on the contrary it sees increasing its turnover and increasing its turnover. At the same time, the government through this process has left intact over the past period the entire public health system, hiding behind the logic of individual responsibility, and now with measures of patches trying to cover holes. Is it really a matter of individual responsibility, the conditions prevailing in large workplaces, particularly in large businesses, in industries, in supermarkets, which have become an area of overtransmission of the virus? Is it not the government itself which adapted any protection protocols, based on the needs of business groups? And it reaches the point today, instead of even ensuring that these lame protocols are observed by co-operativeism, fine contractors, because they did not comply with the individual protection measures, as they did in West Attica. Is it true that the issues of aggregation that appear in public transport are another factor of overtransmission of the virus? On the contrary, it makes use of the conditions in the public transport sector, in order to make progress towards counter-terrorism against workers, but also to make use of this situation, in order to proceed with partnerships between the public and private sectors, by ensuring the interests of private business groups, which will also be active in the urban transport sector. From this point of view, it is clear that a whole range has been established, both in the field of health and in the area of labour rights, in which all governments are jointly responsible, because they have all contributed to creating the current situation. From this point of view, the dozens of amendments - whether or not they are based - tabled by a opposition party, which is a new amendment industry, are just trying to cover up the responsibilities of these parties towards a number of parts of the workers and situations that exist. From this point of view, therefore, we want to stress that even the confrontation of vaccines - whether the Greek Government is prepared and the amount of vaccines - we consider it to be a hypocritical controversy, because through this procedure it is trying to cover up the fact that even by the coming of the vaccine, immediate measures to shield the health system must be taken again. He should have taken these measures from yesterday rather than covered today by the fact that the vaccine will come. And, secondly, this barren controversy about the vaccines is trying to obscure the fact of the huge parasiticism that is now confirmed by the system itself in which you are serving. For example, the race between the multinational pharmaceutical companies on which the vaccine, which will start first, will circulate the vaccine, by which companies will be ordered by the European Union and the other capitalist states. And all this struggle is nothing but to secure the highest possible profit by making the world's need for protection from pandemic. Such a struggle certainly hides geopolitical toys, which are also played with the vaccine for which vaccines will be preferred and which one not. At the same time, there are huge questions about the secret agreements made by the European Union, the Commission, with the large pharmaceutical companies producing the vaccine, because, although there have been several attempts to make these agreements known to the parties, at least on the part of the JRC and with questions to the European Parliament but also here, these agreements are not being given to the parties and publicity. From this point of view, huge questions have been raised. What does the European Union want to hide, and hence the government itself, by not revealing the agreements it has made with multinational drug companies? Why doesn't he make these contracts public? It is clear that through this process toys have been played with various pharmaceutical companies and all these toys are behind people's backs and possibly by exploiting the needs of protecting public health. Also, very large questions were raised and the contract which randomly came to the public between the Greek Government and the US 'PALANTIR'. It is a group that is not innocent, but is very closely linked to the US intelligence services, with the repressive authorities in the United States. Its main operating axis is the concentration of large volumes from information from around the world and their processing using various methods. The activities of this group have indeed been criticised, both in the United States and in the European Union. From this point of view it is surprising that this group states that it cooperates with the Greek Government with a view to managing the COVID pandemic. These publications create very large questions, since the scope and characteristics of this cooperation are unknown. The agreements have been made by means of a method that the government has used in the past with other corresponding agreements, such as tele-telecommunications, i.e. with closed, privately speaking, without any kind of competitive procedure. On the basis of these above considerations, a number of questions are being raised, gentlemen of the Government, Ministers. What, for example, are the characteristics of cooperation with this company? When did this cooperation start? What's the price? What is the subject of this cooperation, the collection and processing of data by this company? Why didn't there be a diagnostic procedure? In what case, for example, does this company have access to data in detail? Does this include personal data of Greek citizens? Does the company have access to data on the health status of COVID patients and their contacts? How is the confidentiality of personal data collected by the Ministry regarding the pandemic ensured? And. if you wanted to process such data, why have you not made sure that any information needs are met, using state-owned personnel working in this area? Besides, you're talking about a digital state. In this respect, therefore, huge questions have been raised and the government must put this agreement to the public. The second issue, which was also raised in the debate, is the question which the Government went with an amendment of the moment, last Thursday, on the basis of the professional rights of graduates of colleges with the graduates of the Greek universities. It is a process that was not initiated yesterday and it is not only the government's responsibility, but it is another link in the chain of European Union policy and the Bologna Agreement, which all the previous governments had supported, for the degradation of Greek diplomas, for the correspondence of colleges with Greek universities and for the disconnection of the entire diploma from professional rights. With this amendment, the government is now allowing for registration, forcing the chambers to write graduates of the various colleges and on the substance of matching that diploma to the Greek degrees. But in this case too, of course, what the government is doing is very much to reduce the professional rights of the graduates of the Greek universities even further, dissociating them completely from the acquisition of the diploma, in other words, by converting them into continuous examinations an examination centre for the acquisition of professional rights. To conclude, Mr President, on the substance and with the fragmentary provisions which the government is now bringing to pass in only five, before the House closes, it is confirmed that you are using the pandemic to further escalate the anti-government attack, satisfying the constant demands of a series of monopolistic groups. These demands just sacrifice to the altar of profitability the needs of the workers. So you are even worsening the pay conditions, you are liberating working time, up to twelve hours may work. You are still going one step further to abolishing Sunday's holiday. What the Minister has claimed only as punctuality can be taken into account, precisely because it is not temporary measures. These are measures which have come to stay here and will remain, because nothing is more permanent than the temporary, and at least all the Memorandumary Laws, which concerned the labour market and which have remained even after the formal expiry of the memoranda. It is a challenge for Mr Georgiadis to resign from the JRC that, by not voting on the article allowing Sunday work by click away that we support the large e-shop companies, when we had protested and had denounced them. On the substance of the matter they cannot hide behind the enormous difficulties in dealing with electronic commerce by the various distribution companies of these goods, because it is precisely through this process that workers are intensified in distribution companies. Of course, the abolition of Sunday holidays and the click away will also be painful for the professional, who will have to be open seven days a week, but also for the minimum workers he supports. So you are speeding up a series of measures which further exacerbate the situation for workers. Try moving workers from service to service to cover holes, such as e-ECA, but leaving gaps in other services. You are continuing to suspend licences for drivers of buses and engineers, in the name of having to operate, while you are not hiring permanent workers. You have reached the point where you are using retired people, that is, returning to work, precisely because you refuse to hire permanent workers, staff, which is necessary to enable the state mechanism to function. So, in substance, this is also confirmed by the support, for example, of shipowners and not seafarers in the requirements they have in the difficult conditions they are experiencing. In this respect, the JRC cannot agree with the spirit with which the Government proceeds to legislate and the latter measures. We will be speaking in detail in the votes of the individual articles. At the same time we call on the workers not only to suspend their struggle but to prepare for even greater mobilisation in the next period, precisely because the government, with its measures, will further exacerbate the state of labour force reproduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u341	Mr President, I would like to put forward legislative improvements, which are all verbal corrections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u342	We're continuing with Ms. Marilissa Xenonakopoulou from SYRIZA. You have the floor, my colleague, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u343	Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to comment on the reference made by Mr Georgiadis, who wondered why SYRIZA has requested a roll-call vote on Rule 72, as for Article 91, I add. The answer is very simple. On the pretext of pandemic, the New Democracy Government brings a number of provisions - supposedly - to meet the needs of the pandemic, which usually have a goal, the deregulation of labour relations, the weakening of workers' rights and, indeed, trade union rights. And since the abolition of the Sunday holiday and the generalization of the work on Sundays - and indeed, in conjunction with the introduction of unpaid overtime but in clearing with permissions - as well as the introduction of electronic technological data on the general meetings of unions and federations, as well as distance-distance excellence, are one of the key points that Mr Brutsis has announced in his presentation to the Ministerial Council of the counter-cooperative bill that he is going to bring next year. That is why we asked for a roll-call vote, because we believe that these two provisions, Article 72 and Article 71, open up the ferry to create a fait accompli, which will then come to institutionalize. In fact, it is characteristic that Article 72 does not even mention how long this - supposedly - will be a new addition to Sunday's work. As far as Mr Brutsi's speech was concerned, one would expect the Minister of Labour to be apologetic today to explain why eighteen months have not been recruited to the ECA, and now there is a strong political and social outcry, especially the misfortune and tolerance in which more than three hundred thousand pensioners are living, who have not yet received their pensions, which has tripled since July 2019 since the elections to date. It would, therefore, be expected to explain, firstly, why no recruitment was made and now it is running out with ECA pensioners or a transfer of staff from the Chambers. It would also be expected that the Minister would explain why eighteen months have not been provided with computers. He told us that at a new time, e - EKA - as added "e" - is now electricalized and digitized and that today it is proven that there is not even computer adequacy and that they are going to make supplies in an opaque and urgent way. So the reality is that the New Democracy Government is accountable to pensioners. Mr Mitsotakis was forced to apologise on this issue - it was the only point he apologied for, because there is this social pressure - in his speech on the budget. That is why the Ministry of Labour and Mr Brutsis are now in a panic situation and are now in the process of proposing certain movements of personnel and these provisions, which are mediators and, ultimately, also of dubious effectiveness. The problem with outstanding pensions is a problem of the New Democracy, which tripled the outstanding pensions from July to today. We therefore call for a rapid resolution, but in a substantial way, and above all with the necessary recruitment and support of workers in the ECA. For our part, we regard the provision that requires that ECA resigns from legal proceedings in cases where workers are in court. But we believe - and we have tabled an amendment - that this should also be extended to OAS workers. I have also heard colleagues from the New Democracy support this. We expect a clear position from the government. I am referring to a hundred and thirty-five OAED workers, who, for reasons of equal treatment and justice, should have the same treatment and much more when OAED is currently lifting a very heavy burden to meet the needs of service and the needs of a difficult period. I would also like to refer to two other amendments, which I consider to be particularly important, which we have tabled. It is an amendment to which we propose that there should be an extension with regard to the discharge of the former beneficiaries who have now lost the right to the CSCE in respect of the discharge of pharmaceutical expenditure. As you know, this discharge is now coming to an end in December, and we consider it to be a humanitarian matter, it is a social matter, at a time when the pandemic will continue to be next year, to be granted an extension by the end of December 2021. And we expect the Government of New Democracy, especially in a bill which is also the Ministry of Health, to take a clear position on discharge for pharmaceutical expenditure. Finally, I would like to refer to another amendment, which is of particular importance. As you know, there are thousands of workers in seasonal enterprises who are currently unable to get the unemployment benefit from the OAS. That is why we have proposed an amendment - and I think that the government should accept and settle this issue - for seasonal enterprises which, according to v.4144/2013, need a special exception - and that is what we propose with the amendment - so that they too, seasonal workers, can receive the corresponding unemployment benefits from the OAED. Ladies and gentlemen, we would really expect today in this difficult phase of the pandemic that the government will come and take concrete steps with regard to controls and support for the Labour Inspectors' College. Unfortunately, in recent months, we have warned the government on several occasions, we have asked Mr Brutsi, who has never answered them, that systematic checks should be carried out to ensure that health protocols are observed in factories, industries and workplaces. The same reaction as public transport, public transport, i.e. there was no awareness from the government in September - October - about these issues, which - as has now been demonstrated in Northern Greece but now unfortunately also in West Attica - were factors that have come to increase the spread of pandemic in the community. Even now we are calling for aid from the OSCE to respect the health protocols. And today we have also tabled a question as a parliamentary group, which we call on the Minister for Labour and the Minister for Health to consider dealing now with COVID19 as an occupational disease, which we think is necessary today under the working conditions of workers, workers, throughout Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u344	Thank you. Mrs Anna Happily has the floor for seven minutes. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u345	Ladies and gentlemen, before I place myself on the substance of the bill, I would like to point out something about public dialogue. I listen carefully to Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou's positions and respect her great course in politics. But I would like to point out that, in the government of SYRIZA, collective redundancies have been released. As was also the case in the SYRIZA Government, the personal difference, which occupyes a very large proportion of the pensioners and erroneouss them for any future increase in their pensions. This is far too far from the principles of the social, fair and rewarding state. As regards the draft legislation now: I would like to highlight the social dimension of this bill, and precisely for these reasons, that we are living a great pandemic, it is justifiable that it is urgent. On these issues, which I shall be speaking on, I have corresponding proposals. I have been dealing with working and social issues since the beginning of my parliamentary term and reasonably, because I have been involved in this. My positions are public and it is understandable that I feel a satisfaction to see that important solutions like that of... (It didn't sound because of a bad connection) I have expressed in my speech in the budget debate the major importance that the Prime Minister personally attaches to this issue and I am sure that his solution will be taken immediately. In less than a week's time we have these provisions for the bill, an issue which really has deep social implications. Indeed, it is my belief that the use of technology by digitising all the necessary elements and quickly handling them will make a significant contribution to tackling this social problem. I have four additional proposals to put forward, to bring them into line with what we are voting on today. First, a pension application for both the main and supplementary pensions. As a consequence, a second proposal is intended to adopt a decision both on the main pension and on the supplementary pension. For the single one, it's a little more complicated. Third proposal, promoting a wide range of information for insured persons, choosing pre-retirement assurances. It is something that will give us time later, and we are earning it from the time we adopt the decisions. Fourthly and importantly, we need to shorten the time of correspondence between the former insurance funds that were merged, for example, when there is a case of successive IKA and OSH pensions, or even between different parts of the same merged entity, such as, for example, the acquisition of fictitious time in the former IKA, because there are great bureaucratic delays. How's that gonna happen? By digitising all the insurance data of insured persons and generalising e-mails between different departments and different former funds, while upgrading the OPS and consolidating the software of the merged funds, with the aim of one: All employees working on the basis of a reference to the insured person’s case, entering directly and making immediate updates of his file on all operations and not partly, as is done today. This certainly entails better ECA's technological equipment and computers with printers and scanners to facilitate the digitisation of documents. These were my proposals on outstanding pensions. However, I would like to make a general position concerning insured civil servants and the Security Councils. An amendment was tabled before summer that gave rise to the possibility of increasing the temporary pension for freelance professionals, former OAUs, and employees, former IKAs. Since the process of digitising the life insurance of civil servants and trustees is a difficult process and will take time, I propose, respectively, to increase the rate of temporary pension to be awarded to both civil servants and security bodies. With regard to Article 78, which allows it to remain in their work for workers in the ECA, who are in legal disputes and remain in their work with judicial or final protection decisions, I would like to say that it is a very important provision, because it has a dual objective: firstly, because it is effective and targeted, you have a staff who is modern and specialised and, secondly, because it is friendly, because it is also a reward for people who have spent and psychological and economic costs in all of this process to remain in their work. Article 90 also provides for a penalty for employers who illegally withhold the amount of the special allowance by their employees. Indeed, there were such complaints. I'm also aware of the president of the Thessaloniki Work Center just a few days ago. It is important that such circumventions of the law are prevented by the state. As far as Article 94 is concerned, to strengthen artists and people of culture, it is essential, because Greece is a culture. The people of culture have entered the crisis first and they will, as it seems, come out last, and the government is actually making an effort to do so. And it's not easy. I'm a lawyer, I'm a technician. The waters are unpapered. It is very difficult to understand all the terms and types of work that exist under the provisions. But there is an important effort and it is important that artists and artists enter the protective measures for the months of November and December, for which I have also tabled a relevant question. However, since there is the financial area, because there are objections from the Association of Musicians of Northern Greece that the Artists' Register does not take over all the cases that, for reasons not covered by this debate, I would like it to be considered by the relevant Ministries if an enlargement can take place in some way. With regard to Article 52, a fundamental request is met by our blind fellow citizens to facilitate their movement and tax relief for those with a total disability of 80%. In the case of Article 53, the species concerned are covered by a rate of 6%. On this side, I would like to make two proposals and so to conclude. One proposal is that there should be a correspondingly beneficial provision for the types of service and for the Paralympians. It is a measure of small budgetary costs, but with a large social footprint. The second proposal, because we are very interested in supporting SMEs in the labour market, in joining the labour market and in maintaining them in the labour market, is to make a provision for blind people, to open up new protected professions, which will enable them to work further. In conclusion, I am voting in favour of the bill and wish you good holidays.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u346	Also, good holidays. Mr Spanakis has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u347	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are unfortunately once again, shortly before the end of the year, faced with the consequences of the new COVID 19 pandemic, and we have to take new measures for the citizens who have been troubled and have been deeply affected. Unfortunately, it is also the economic consequences of the health crisis that have brought too serious. Since the first day the New Democracy Government has faced the health crisis with seriousness and consistency. Our colleagues in the opposition are accusing us of the urgency procedure in this bill. But is that possible? When did any government ever have to deal with such a dynamic pandemic? The countries most organized, the countries that belong to the core of Europe and to the major economies of the world are constantly changing tactics and taking new measures each time. Are you accused, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy Government, which has stood up to the situation since the beginning and are we constantly taking measures wherever and whenever necessary? Our fellow citizens, all professional sectors, have suffered irreparably. We are well aware of this and we are doing our utmost to enable the day after the pandemic to function properly again. Remind me of these days of 2018 in the last few days, that is, Christmas of the SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras government, what had happened with the immigration bill? During plenary, over 20 amendments were tabled and finally, in the midst of an outcry from all opposition parties, the debate was suspended for the next day. And remind me without COVID then. With today's bill we are called upon to update provisions that have already been legislated. It's nothing new or something unknown. We need to update extensions, suspensions. Can we not do this at the last minute, and in particular when it is in the interests of citizens and businesses? As it happened - is very characteristic - with the 2014 MYPD states, where... (It doesn't sound like a bad connection) the SYRIZA Ministry of Finance forgot to legislate on an extension of a few days already promised by specific press releases. The problem at the time was technical. The result today is that taxpayers and their accountants are faced with the imposition of unfair and irrational fines. And this was the solution given by the New Democracy Government, with the provision of Article 56 of the draft law being passed. Let me say that we had five other colleagues on this issue on 3 December. I personally tabled a specific parliamentary question on 15 October. I shall mention, however, some of the provisions of today's bill, as time is very short, but this is how the process is. We have a zero VAT rate for vaccines and medical devices associated with COVID. Shouldn't we have brought this, be it a few days before time changes? We have with Article 52, the amendment of the disability rate of the blind citizens who are entitled to exemption from the registration fee and traffic charges, a regulation which was welcomed by the National Disabled Persons Confederation, and the next article comes under the reduced VAT rate of 6% of a number of products in need of the disabled. We have the arrangements for prolonging the suspension of increases for renting public-service immovable property, the cost of transport subsidies for publishing enterprises, the provisions on interbank commissions for transactions with credit cards. We have the provisions of the Ministry of Labour to speed up the award of pensions, with the reinforcement of the services of the e-VETA with staff and equipment. Here I would like to say a lot of congratulations to the staff of the Ministry of Labour, which improved Article 77, and we have the resignation of legal proceedings not only for the eFCA workers, but also for the OAED workers. Finally, after years, eighty-eight workers will be able to continue working and I very much ask SYRIZA colleagues not to come and toss the koruna, when they, on their day, did nothing for these workers. However, the hours are critical and what is important is that we have a substantial, prosecuting and unified reason to pass this health crisis on with the many economic consequences. I therefore believe that all of Parliament's wings should vote in favour of this bill, which brings reintegrations into debt arrangements, a new extension of the 'Consumer - WORK' mechanism, arrangements for the islands affected by the October earthquake, so as not to lose jobs, but other provisions, such as arrangements to extend the reporting of accountants who are suffering from COVID19. [[It didn't sound because of a bad connection]] ...that we have a government that legislates, even a few 24 hours before we leave behind us in 2020, legislates properly, legislates that we can meet today's needs and we all hope to overcome at the least cost, at all levels, this crisis, which has come not only in our country, but in the world, and in 2021 to be a year of opportunities, finally, for all of us, with health. In conclusion, I would like to wish my fellow Members, to all those who are following the House, to all Greeks, to be united, to be healthy and to create all Greece's opportunities for us and our children together. Happy birthday, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Mr. Spankee. Happy holidays! We continue with Ms. Ithanasia Anagnostopoulou from SYRIZA for seven minutes. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin my speech on this broom bill, which comes at the last minute, from the style and content of Mr Voridis' speech, which appeared as the government's expresser, after replying to the Chief of Staff. This style of cynicism, which is perceived as intelligence, with lines that do not respond to anything, except in the 20:00 issues, do not lead to a situation in which society finds itself, with fear and insecurity toward the pandemic but also to the economic crisis and the consequences it has created. He was smart enough, but he didn't tell us anything about PALANTIR - nothing at all - he didn't tell us about many others, as he didn't tell us about his ministry, his matters of responsibility. He threw backup without saying why he cut 15% of subsidies horizontally. The aid he has announced is not enough to cover even 4% of what has been cut. I shall, however, come to this bill itself, after I have re-entered a small parentheses by Mr Voridis, otherwise known as the'master', on the bill, on the order of Mrs Kerameos. It is coup d'état, anti-constitutional, anti-social and directly affecting public education. Instead of caring about the graduates of the TEIs - which there is a problem and should be solved - he comes in the night to legislate about colleges, as he did for private schools, as he does for private IEKs etc. We will come back to this. He's not gonna stay that way. However, let me come to the bill and Rule 94 concerning the people of culture and the workers in culture. We agree, of course, to receive an allowance for November - December. But, once again, the government legislates miserable, looking at the world, its society and its problems by a key hole in the ideology without seeing the whole picture. It is, therefore, legislated for November - December, without saying on what dates the beneficiaries will receive this allowance and at the same time without saying about the September - October allowance, for the beneficiaries entered in the register after October and 10 January. I would like to say to the government one thing: which one could have his own life in a permanent stain? We have it all our citizens have to live out because of pandemic. But also because of an economic crisis? The world of culture is thousands, workers, small and medium-sized enterprises. Since the spring of last year, they have been yelling themselves, Civic Opposition and other Opposition and have tabled measures. The day before they had a teleconferencing conference, for the second time in a week, the POTO, the Panhellenic Acroama View Federation, and the primary unions with the Secretary General of the Ministry of Labour and the Secretary General of the Ministry of Culture. They've raised the issues. They want to have monthly aid set, throughout Lockdown, they want to connect, like all employees, with the measures relating to rent, dues, debts to PPC etc. We need to see this world with the pride and dignity they deserve, not with this humiliation, with the dropper all the time. I am therefore waiting for Mr Brutsi to say the dates that people will get the money - and those who will be writing up to 10 January - and also the association measures of these workers, such as all workers, support measures and commitment now for monthly subsidies, surely a subsidy, to know what people are doing with their lives. We have tabled an amendment, which we had tabled in the Ministry of Culture bill. She had accepted it in substance, Mrs Mendonis, had made a small correction, accepted it and said that the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Finance, etc. Now there's all the ministers there. It concerns State aid to Collective Management Organisations for Spiritual and Congenital Rights. These people, natural persons, cannot take intellectual and related rights, of course because of the quarantine of users, shops, hotels and so on. This aid must be made by the Ministry of Culture, as the Minister of Culture wants, directly to collective management organisations, compared to 50% of 2019, to take a breath. I will close very briefly with this: I will insist on this subject of culture, which shows both indifference and I would say - you will allow me to express - cynicism, cynical indifference towards all culture. You know, today I think, Mr. Kyriakos Katzourakis resigned from the board of directors. The Acropolis Museum. Find out who Mr. Katzourakis is, if you don't know. Do you know why? For the works and days of the Minister of Culture and the Government in Acropolis, Mycenes, Thessaloniki, the export of antiquities for fifty years. Here we have a flagrant blow to democracy, an indifference to society, its intangible goods, and also to people who produce intangible goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u350	Thank you. Mrs Sofia - Iido Asmakopoulou from the Greek Solution has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u351	Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is really very difficult - and we also raised it at the committee meeting - to comment on a multi-legislative broom plan in such a short time, a bill that works in the sense of 'Come to finish', precisely because it ends the year, disregarding the principles of good legislature. Although, of course, it should not give rise to any impression, since exactly the same thing happened with the management of the pandemic, since it would be reasonable to see permanent appointments to the health system from summer onwards. It has been months since the pandemic began and even now, at the last minute, you are running to fill gaps that should have already been settled and in a legal way. Instead, we see, by way of these extensions of fixed-term work contracts and staff movements, rather than the final coverage of the gaps. You are talking about unauthorised medicines to coronary patients, and this creates very serious reservations - the Greek citizens are not the subject of experimentation, this must be understood - and immediately thereafter direct awards, derogating from the existing legislation. Ordinary practice for you! Provide, inter alia, by way of derogation from all the existing national provisions on public procurement, the possibility of sending an invitation for direct purchase of health material, personal protective measures and medicinal products to cover the emergency of public health. Why so much inadequacy to cover the basics at five and indeed with the money of Greek taxpayers? Even for a retrospective view of all costs, you refer to the costs of the "Anonymous Society of Health Units S.A.", without telling us any more about what amounts this is. And besides, you are introducing tax exemptions for private daily care units. You cannot call for transparency and impartiality when you bring such provisions to a vote. Below, why should the liquidation and payment of the health sector's obligations on pharmacy and others be extended? The obligations are obviously necessary to be cleared and paid immediately. Because of the pandemic you find an opportunity to extend the direct award procedure for OSCE contracts. Why, let's not make fun of ourselves, this is an opportunity. There's no excuse for your frustration. Same as the OSTH and the "Organization of Transport Projects of Thessaloniki S.A.". To address the immediate risk of dispersal of the COVID-19 coronary and for a period not exceeding six months from the publication of this document, you are talking about the possibility of concluding contracts, including for the uninterrupted provision of transport services. This is the only means of transport in Thessaloniki, which in practice is undergoing and is facing chronic problems, especially during the pandemic. Nor may the safety of citizens and students at the same time be jeopardised by extending the age limits for withdrawal from the traffic of vehicles of the CCT transport service providers, special tourist buses, private school buses, etc. Don't level it all. At the same time, it is questionable whether the regulation concerning recruitment of other staff to deal with the COVID -19 Coronary Organisations, other than medical and nursing. Why should needs arise outside nurses and medical staff and what kind of ones? Isn't existing employees enough? And on the basis of what criteria will they be recruited? We see toward the end of the plan that the clean-up, storage and disinfection contracts of the central offices of the Ministries of Finance, Development and Investment, the protection of the citizen and others will be extended. All of this as the conclusion of the contracts after the completion of the recruitment procedures or tender procedures for the award of cleaning services and in any case not beyond 31 March 2021. So then others will be hired? And all these people who worked and work in the middle of a pandemic what will happen? Is the urgency of the secondments by the staff of the National Commission for Human Rights from where it arises? Prolong the conclusion of public contracts by the Ministry of Digital Governance and its supervised entities until 28-2-2021. Do you want to convince us that the needs of the Ministry and the supervising bodies have not been met all this time? We in the Greek Solution have said so and we will repeat it: it is unacceptable that such procedures should be carried out at the last minute. It is also unacceptable that the critical health sector should go like the wind feather, without adequate staffing and in many cases without even the necessary armour for the management of this juncture. Respect at least the superhuman race that our doctors and nurses have fought for. It is not possible when we talk about health to go with the logic of 'day and day, we see', particularly in view of the third wave. And finally, give our children a serious incentive abroad to go back to their country of hearts, to Greece. I wish everyone a merry Christmas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u352	Happy holidays! Now Mr. Kriton Arsenis from Mera25 has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u353	Thank you very much, Mr President. Congressmen and MPs, Mr Ministers, the government in practice sells the vaccine before it even comes. This is your basic health policy, the main policy towards pandemic, at the same time that you have completely lost control of the pandemic. Actually, you haven't lost him. It's not a fight you're giving. You are only concerned with this fight in the percentage that affects the votes of the future elections. In fact, the fight you are giving - and you are giving it a firm and very successful one - is the fight to privatise the health system. And I wonder, what's your pandemic plan? Let's accept that you have a plan. What's your pandemic plan? Even Germany estimates that it will only cover 60% of its population from vaccination in June. The organized Germany, which is organised to deal with the coronary. You, who haven't shown any of this intent, tell us what your plan for the pandemic is? In the country with most per capita people losing their lives from the coronary, your plan for the pandemic is what? When will you be able to get us out of this crisis, with what timetable and what are you going to do until then? Questions are just: What do you do with the ICUs if you multiply them. I will repeat the simple example once and for all: The Greek Parliament, with 8 million, builds fifty ICs. You wait for the sponsorships. Will you immediately commit to the construction of the IFs that we need? In fact, with EUR 400 million, the National Health System could always have another two and a half thousand IC. It's funny you haven't done it and your intention is clear: you don't want it to happen. You want the privatisation of the public health system. Will you proceed to the necessary recruitments of doctors? With half a billion, we could at this time have the simulations of subsidiary and the recruitment of many specialties that the public health system needs, anyway, regardless of the coronary. Will you move on? Because human lives continue to be lost. And the exit from the crisis is not obvious. You waited - and that's obvious - that there would only be a krone wave. Now we see that you're not even planning on what you're going to do in the spring, what you're going to do in the winter. But you're telling us that you brought health measures and these are urgent. We wonder where the drug measures are as well. Bring this extension of use of the device for the use of coronary medicinal products with special permission of the patient and at the special request of the doctor. Obviously, this extension concerns new medicines that have been taken, as in the previous extension in practice there were no such medicines. Very good. When are we going to import these drugs? When will we have the necessary quantities to benefit the people who are before the intensive stage? To save lives, to lighten the burden to hospitals and intensive care. When will that be, Minister? And it's not something that has been approved in the United States. It has been approved in Canada as well. And Greece can proceed with this approval. So the question is: why do we not approve it? Why do we not exceptionally allow the use of this experimental medicine? Why don't we try something that can help us? And we're talking about this, because the evidence shows that it's possible to save lives in the stadium before the intensive stage, at all the critical stages of our thousands of fellow citizens at the moment. You, instead of that, brought us into this bill on small profits tax in the games with urgent procedures. Truly, please explain: What does this regulation have to do with urgent procedures? There would, however, be a tax that should be urgent, a tax that is lacking from this and from all your bills, and it is not planned to bring it: taxes on the Internet, taxes on NETFLIX, as more and more of our fellow citizens are linked to this service, but without the money they pay, drachma, euros, to go to public funds, to tax. Respectively, for the profits of ‘AMAZON’. Similarly, for the profits of Facebook, where too many businesses are advertised to send their products via internet with the arrangements you have brought. At the same time that you bring measures for the blind, who facilitate the access of the blind to cars of more than a thousand cubic cubic, you do not make it self-evident: bring back the allowances you abolished, the orphan’s allowance, which you have abolished by half, and in particular for the blind, the scientific allowance, for pensioners who do not work, which you abolished in the middle of the previous lockdown. Bring back the money you got from these people! Of course, you may not tax the web colossals, but another colossus, known for its connection to the "CAMBRIDGE ANALYTICS" scandal, "PALANTIR", you bring it into Greek reality, strengthen cooperation with her with an opaque contract that you still do not bring us to the public. That's your policy. No incapacity. I'll argue with every analyst who's afflicting you. No lack of efficiency and strategy. Very capable, very effectively, a lot of strategy to serve specific private interests that you choose, on your own self-interest criteria. This is your government's X-ray and it looks in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u354	Thank you. The Minister for Tourism, Mr Theocharis, has asked for the floor on the amendment which has just been tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u355	Is it possible now to table an amendment, Mr President? That's unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u356	I, Mr Colleague, must give the floor to the Minister. From there on, you, when you want to speak as a parliamentary representative, tell me. Please, Minister, you have the floor for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u357	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is my pleasure to support the amendment we tabled, the Ministry of Tourism, in response to a request from the market. I have here a letter from SETE, dated 19 December, to the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Finance, which I am tabling for the Minutes, and which explains the issue we resolve with this amendment. [[At this point, the Minister for Tourism, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The government - and on Friday I supported four favourable regulations and extensions for the following year - is coming to supplement the substantial support for the tourism sector with this amendment, in addition to the payments for 'Tourism for All', a programme which reminded us that we extended to 2021, apart from the isolation hotels, hotels which allowed Greek tourism to operate this year, with targets that were all qualitative. I remind you of the opening of the country safely and strengthening the brand, objectives that have been fully achieved. However, today we also had the announcement from the Bank of Greece of the balance-sheet data. In October, the figures show that the revenues have been exceeded at 4 billion and thus the account of the Officerial Representation on revenues of only 3 billion in tourism has been broken down, a record we have heard repeatedly in this House. Although we did not have any quantitative targets, it seems that we are going to exceed all four billion revenues. Obviously, no one is happy, but in this year of pandemic, difficulty, no one could expect anything. In fact, the Qualified Opposition waited much less. Already 33% more than the Civic Opposition expected we achieved it. In closing this parentheses, I say that, in order to achieve this, a number of hotels had to meet the obligations. And so for the isolation hotels we had predicted that their payments would be incompatible and would not be offset by unregulated and unregulated obligations. We are now doing the same for the hotels that supported in the first wave of the pandemic, when we had to close the entire market and all the hotels were closed, for the emergency special needs, so that the country could function, whether they are called Security Bodys or called special cases of workers who were obliged to be out of their homes. We have kept some hotels open and these are paid with this amendment here. These payments are also incompatible, so that the state can show that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has practically shown its interest in supporting the tourism sector as a whole. It is therefore a very positive amendment, which I urge you to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u358	Thank you. Let me inform the House that I have been informed by Mr Petsas, who is here, that he will take the floor shortly later on for an amendment. We will continue with Mrs Maria - Alexandra Head from New Democracy. Mrs. Head, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u359	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the COVID pandemic -19 is the most important challenge for our country at this time, not only for the health system, but also for many other sectors, especially for the economy. Since March, all this time, all possible efforts are being made to support households and businesses. Today, urgent arrangements are being introduced in many different areas. These support measures are carried out with methodicity, consistency and perceptiveness, but above all with social justice. In particular, we are satisfying a fundamental request from our blind fellow citizens, by facilitating their movements and tax relief for those with a total disability of 80% or more, and by reducing VAT to 6% for those who need it. In the mental health section we regulate the issues of staffing early prevention teams, to diagnose the disease. We give the opportunity within clinics, even within universities, to be able to use such units. We are strengthening all structures of e-ECA in order to clear all pensions as soon as possible. New pensions may indeed be liquidated very quickly, but there is a delay in liquidation with the older ones, and we are coming to fix this immediately. We are introducing criminal penalties against the employer who receives an amount of compensation instead of for the worker. Such phenomena cannot be tolerated. In addition, we guarantee the irreversible and duty-free use of aid imposed in the context of actions to address the impact of COVID -19 on the primary sector. Ladies and gentlemen, we are extending and extending our support for employment. We are constantly moving towards substantial relief measures for citizens and businesses that have suffered the negative consequences of pandemic in their professional and business activity. We're strengthening liquidity. We are extending and extending the suspension of tax and insurance obligations. We make it compulsory to reduce rents and workers and at the same time to compensate the owners. We are dealing with the economic consequences of this health crisis rationally all this time and with brave and substantial measures we support the real economy. We quickly display reflexes and at the same time form the plan for our next day, for the post-COVID period. Our credibility as a country is constantly improving. The government and the citizens together manage this pandemic from the first day on the basis of keeping society united and as much as possible for the next, difficult, real day. Because no one doubts that, when we defeat the coronary, we must also give the next battle to defeat the economic consequences of this too. Our ally is the vaccine, which we will also have in our country next week, starting with the vaccination of health workers, which is on the front line of battle, and the vulnerable groups. Undoubtedly, it gives us a hope that soon we'll have winners out. By the way, as a doctor I would like to propose to all Greek citizens who hear us vaccinated and ask those who have doubts and reservations to listen to specialists. Sowing fear is easy and ignorance often creates wrong and distorting image. It is important to lay the basis for what they really know. We have ensured that every Greek and every Greek woman can do it and do it for free. And he has to. Our aim was and remains to get all of us healthy out of the tunnel and no one, but under no circumstances should we relax these days. The beginning of the end of the pandemic may be visible, the messages that come from the measurements of effectiveness of all vaccines, of all companies, may be extremely encouraging, but the virus is still here. And he's here strong and dangerous. After all, it is witnessed by our fellow citizens who have experienced and exceeded it by others who are even now. All of us understand fatigue, the need for more personal contact, the desire to return our levels of social life to what we had a year ago. But the only way to do this is to keep all the experts' measures, for us and for the people we love. In conclusion, Mr President, I wish to wish this year's celebrations, although different, to fill our souls with love and strength and to come out of this whole process united and strong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u360	Thank you. Happy holidays. Mr. Floor Alexiadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr President. I want to start first of all with what I heard before. I thought it was a joke, but it's probably serious. I have heard that the government is still tabling amendments. It is 7.00 this afternoon that ten speakers have left on my list and amendments are still being tabled. Let us also be tabled by the government to accept any amendments tabled after the vote on this bill. Finally, everything has a limit! This bill is the epitome of what the anecdotes of the state of staff mean for the New Democracy, of what all that we were told of, with Mr. Gerapettis beforehand, for the so-called 'good legislature'. Invitation: To stop the New Democracy MPs, with ambitious efforts, but hopelessly, trying to compare things unlike each other when we are in the war of the negotiations - and with the New Democracy MPs then shouting "liddles, Gerun!" - We were trying to solve problems we inherited. It is an epitome of what this bill means to hide provisions under the characterisation of the bill as urgent. In fact, the word 'dream' describes the fact that, under the word 'urgent', provisions that reduce taxation - I say again, reduce taxation - have been hidden in specific activities. Members of KINAL have also referred - and they have done well - on this issue, because it is unacceptable and there is no answer from the government where the urgency is in this matter. In order to remember the old times of New Democracy and not only, in some strange amendments, there is another evil provision in Article 134, which is hidden under the urgency. Let one have the political honesty to come out and explain why it is urgent to have a provision at this time that will give tax-raisers and smugglers the opportunity to relinquish criminal offences. With the ideological abyss of the New Democracy, I am separated by the ideological abyss. That's clear. As legal, however, he will be charged with suggesting a bill with such provisions. A bill, which unfortunately reduces the position of those who evade tax, those who smuggled, those who deceived the Greek public. We come to the bill as to its characteristics, because at least for the history of the future these must be recorded and heard. You filed Thursday night at 0.50' a bill with a hundred sixty articles. You brought it to the Committee on Social and Economic Affairs in 15 hours. Thursday night he was tabled, Friday at 3 p.m., and this morning his 'debate' in plenary began. It is a bill, in which at least sixteen Ministries - probably by the end are much more - legislate and is a bill to which the Members of the New Democracy are coming - and those from the legal sector must be ashamed of getting out and saying things like that - and what do they say? You know, we brought a bill that has all the issues, all the ministries, so that we don't have to go and bring amendments to an unrelated bill and afflict this House. And what did you do? You are so - not to say the word - that you started the bill with a hundred sixty articles and from Friday you are constantly adding amendments, you add articles. At least seventeen more articles have been added. The total bill has exceeded seven hundred and eight hundred pages and they will vote, those voting for it, without knowing what they are voting on. The Members of Parliament - and this is what concerns you, Mr President, who are currently presided over - are practically at a distance from Parliament, it is impossible to see the amendments that have been tabled at the moment and to vote on these amendments. The word 'dream' is a little. I would use the word that starts from the fourteenth letter of the Greek alphabet, but is even early and is watching little children probably our conversation and I do not want them to lose any sense in how the Greek Parliament works. As far as the bill is concerned, however, you have done something else. To prove how serious you are, how organized you are, how finally you have various other 'green horses'. You are bringing provisions, such as Articles 67 and 134, which are typical examples of good legislature, which you are amending provisions of laws that were adopted not two years ago or before a previous government, now bring provisions and amend articles of previous laws, which you have voted on even a few days ago. How far will incompetence and clandestine reach the legislature? And since we are talking about amendments, I would like to ask a question and a request for a political answer. Members of the ruling party of the New Democracy and SYRIZA MPs, first of all we and, after the New Democracy, no matter what the series is, we brought an amendment to a previous bill a few days ago - not a few centuries ago - to resolve the issue with late statements and fines submitted for 2014, as well as the issue of accountants' disease and accountants' death. And then the Minister responsible rejected these amendments. We have even reached the point of opposition to say 'accept the New Democracy Members' amendment and we withdraw ours, so that we do not have any political advantage'. The ministers rejected it. Why? Are they being stubborn in Parliament? They have right now and have brought Article 56, as they have right now and brought the provision for the disease or the potential death of the accountant. ...(It doesn't sound because of a bad connection) This is a macabre piece of legislation. In the event of death by a COVID accountant, will any other thing be the case than in the event of death by any other reason? Or will we be treated differently if the accountant suffers from COVID or if he is at home or at his office and if he has proven himself to be a serious problem that he cannot work? So give a solution to these issues. I will submit digitally to the Practical Document of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Fiscal Liberties on 23 November. People from June and July have identified the problem. At last, give a solution to this problem of accountants, because along with the other recitals - to say the most polite phrase - you made in the bill the previous days about who can be written in the Chambers, all those branches that in the previous period with the so-called tie movement have supported you, now are those who really ask why you are doing these actions and what interests you are serving. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u362	Thank you. Happy holidays. Mrs Silver Skondra has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u363	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has created exceptional conditions throughout the globe. We see one after the other large, powerful, developed states moving to universal lockdown, their national economies entering the ice, shops downloading rolls, these holiday days being turned into days of isolation and care for public health. For many of our fellow citizens these days are becoming depressing and difficult. I am referring to those who have lost people and, by the way, I would like to present my warmest condolences, as well as to wish wholeheartedly to all those who are ill passively and quickly. So it is a difficult situation that the whole world is experiencing and, of course, it forces governments to move on to extraordinary and sometimes difficult initiatives. In other states, however, such decisions are respected and supported by all the political forces with due decency and responsibility, and not, as is the case in our country, to blame us and to speak to us about 'great' Mr Alexiadis previously and so many others that have been heard. In Greece, unfortunately, what, as we have said, is not even fantasy. A artificial polarization is being set up and even misinformed many times and we are doing the same bad work of spectators. On any government initiative, the first opposition is denial, resentment, so-called law that chokes them, the alleged indignation. We are discussing a bill introduced under the urgency procedure, and this is considered unacceptable for SYRIZA and the other opposition parties. You are negative because, as you say, it concerns regulation by many ministries and not just by the Ministry of Health. Once again you are deliberately overlooking the substance. And, to be clear, the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis in a year and a half that governs has brought more than a hundred forty bills to Parliament. Of these, only five entered the emergency procedure and all concerned the COVID pandemic -19. 90% of today's bill refers to regulations relating to public health or directly related to the management of the impact of the coronary. Most of them already exist from previous legislative acts, but it is necessary to extend and extend them. Unfortunately, there are still difficult conditions, as in spring, when these provisions were passed. Since, therefore, many had the final date of 31 December, the Government comes and legislates to extend these arrangements up to 31-3-2021. The arrangements of the other ministries relate to issues relating to the treatment of the pandemic and the impact it had on the country, the economy and society. However, we have also heard criticism here. You do not know that the bills are signed by many Ministers, precisely because there is an interaction between the provisions and therefore various ministries are involved in their implementation. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand your need to stand up to you, but the situation is critical, so you should be responsible and honest. To admit that it is serious and urgent that farmers' aids should be inconsistent and tax-free to deal with the effects of COVID -19. It is important and urgent that supplementary, medical and nursing staff can be recruited, that private doctors can work in public hospitals, that they can be converted into hospital beds and ΜΑΘ beds in MPA and ICU beds. It is a serious matter and the possibility of supplying materials and means by the OSH is urgently urgent, that the NCA may conclude contracts for the supply of spare ambulances, that the Minister for Health accepts donations of hospital equipment, that private aircraft may be used for aerospace. It is a serious matter, and the definition of zero VAT for vaccines was urgent. They are equally serious and urgent because they concern the service of consumers and the stimulation of the market. It is also serious and it is urgent to strengthen the structures of e-ECA in order to clear up all outstanding pensions as soon as possible. In the light of what Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos said earlier, I would like to say that SYRIZA is responsible and accountable for the delays in these outstanding pensions, on the one hand, because she has integrated the funds into paper, without logistical infrastructure, without staff, without the training of the already existing staff, has broken down, that is, without building and, on the other, because she has left out of more than a million pensions, what the Government of the New Democracy and the Ministry of Labour has been trying to do very successfully to retire people. In conclusion, I would urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to look a little further than your party bumpers. Do not limit everything to a glass of tiny and ideological interests. This global pandemic requires that we all stand up to the real facts and worthy of the confidence of our citizens, who expect all of us to make good decisions. Finally, Mr President, I would like to wish my colleagues, of course, and also to all the Greeks and Greeks who are watching us with Merry Christmas, with health, love and patience. I would particularly like to wish medical and nursing staff strong in their difficult work and to thank them for their enormous contribution. I hope and hope that the new year will be optimistic and peaceful for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, too. I wish good holidays to you too. My colleague from the Change Movement, Mr Ilhan Ahmed, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u365	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we are discussing a bill today under the urgency procedure reveals the way in which the government has dealt with the pandemic. It's not just the issue of bad legislation. It's a matter of deep political. I do not want to criticise the criticism or opposition of the opposition, but I cannot from this Step forward not to say what all citizens, sometimes complain and sometimes anger, are expressing out every day and every opportunity in the local society: why have those who govern us not prepare? Why have we come after so many sacrifices and in a second catastrophic lockdown, with these consequences? That's what citizens ask. Unfortunately, today's bill comes to confirm the way it is coming to deal with pandemic, without a substantial plan and without a real strategy. Unfortunately, you were burned in the lights of your communication show. At a time when the government had to plan, you were celebrating a success that the Greek people themselves had achieved. The Change Movement made you concrete suggestions. Our proposals were timely, they were proposals to strengthen the health system, for workers, for farmers, for the weakest, who suffer and suffer from the unprecedented situation we are experiencing. And since this bill is a bill of amendments - we can call it this way - it is an opportunity to show it at the end, accepting the amendments we have tabled as a Change Movement. But you refused to listen to them until today. We will see at the end of the process whether you will accept the many amendments. A characteristic example I would like to mention is the outstanding pensions. You have now adopted our proposal of the Change Movement, which we have been talking about for a year and a half, but you are late, Mr Ministers. Today, the number of pensioners waiting for payment has unfortunately tripled. Instead of organising this issue in a fair way, you have established Article 79, which I consider to be extremely problematic and legal, because it is possible by decision of the board of directors of scientific associations, lawyers, doctors and pharmacists to make available officials to the ECA. These scientific clubs, doctors, lawyers, how will they make available their staff? What will their working rights be there? What experience will they deal with? Are there any appeals? Do they have no authority at all? Because in administrative law, responsibility comes with secondment or administrative care. I think that Article 79 is extremely problematic. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a bill of a total of sixty scattered provisions, which relate to almost all the ministries. I'll tell you it's a bill that's not ready. Of course, there are provisions that are in a positive direction and we will vote for them, but in general they are fat-cut patches of the last minute. Another characteristic example, in addition to the outstanding pensions that exist, which is an absolute failure of the Minister of Labour, Mr Brutsi, is Article 145, which refers to the extension of one year to the time limit for the transfer of consular authorities' prerogatives. That's right, of course. But you really know, Minister, what's going on in the Ministry of Interior Special Headquarters? Do you have a picture of what's going on? I'll tell you what. First of all, it serves the entire Special Post Office of Greece and the relatives with a telephone line. Well, you heard me with just one phone line. And that can't be done electronically. Why wasn't there a way they could close the appointments more easily and efficiently? Where's the digital governance said by Mr. Pierracakis? Today, all our relatives for deaths, births, suffer and a telephone line try to handle their jobs. We are going to Article 155, which concerns the operation of companies, namely the "ELLENIC FLOWER" and the courier during the pandemic period. The resciprocity is too big. The simple Greek suffers. You are now bringing a last-minute regulation, but this is not enough, because the courier and courier companies want intervention from the Ministry of Labour too, so that the workers' working rights can also be supported by the Ministry of Labour's programmes, so that the electronics traders can be supported by the Government. But of course, you're only interested in big business. Another point I want to make is Article 154. They are the arrangements of the Ministry of Digital Governance. This article we as a Change Movement will vote against, Minister, because it allows for a direct award of up to EUR 60,000 for contracts to be concluded by way of derogation from all the existing national provisions on public procurement. Where's the emergency here? Are these contracts to be performed directly how many will be in total? Will it be ten, twenty, thirty? What object? And why, for the purchase of computers or other equipment, as you say about cleanliness in the article, be of an emergency and, indeed, by direct assignment? I would like to make a comment on Article 118, which concerns our farmers. First of all, the irreversible and duty-free aid was a proposal of the Change Movement for too long. You adopt it, of course. We find it positive. On the other hand, however, the New Democracy - I would like to turn to Mr Voridis and ask him to - to cover illegal rumbles for people who did not have the legal conditions, has led six hundred thousand farmers to find out when they were paid for the subsidy they received two days ago. That is about 10% to 15% of the subsidy has been illegally reduced, suddenly and unjustly. And again from this step, on the occasion of the debate on this bill, we want to call on the government and Mr Mitsotakis, but also on the Minister for Rural Development to give these funds back, or to explain to the farmers why all these retentions were made. You should take serious note of the amendments tabled by our parliamentary representative, Mr Kegeroglu, in his morning speech. They're specific. Some of them have been filed more than ten times. The content is about the rights affected by the pandemic and touches the Greek society. Instead of accepting these amendments, we see that you are insisting on bringing arrangements at the last minute to satisfy some people of your choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, too. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Kegeroglu, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u367	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have had a debate since this morning, which has been confronted by it, but it also has its agreements in individual articles in the bill. A number of articles concerning the Ministry of the Interior, namely the regulation of the citizens' debts to the municipalities, have our own agreement and vote. Furthermore, 15 days ago, there was parliamentary scrutiny and the Minister, Mr Theodorikos, gave us a detailed overview of the terms of the new regulation, which would come to Parliament for a vote and we were glad to see that it was within the amendments to this bill. We are now seeing an amendment to this Article 136, introduced by Mr Kikilias. I am saying an amendment, because it has two aspects to deal with. One aspect is that it is not a legislative improvement, it is an amendment. Legal improvements to a page are not available on the map. Legal improvements to a page do not exist in the Rules of Procedure. I would ask you very much for this reason alone to leave and come as an amendment, if the government wishes to do so. But it is also a matter of substance. Does that have the signature of Mr Theodorikou and the Minister of Finance? I would like to ask the Commissioner if he would be prepared to give us an answer to this question. We, if this is considered to be a legislative improvement, if this is both a decision and a consensus of both the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Finance, should be aware of this in order to determine our position. Not at the last minute like this. Not at the last minute in the form of legislative improvements to come an amendment, which is half a page! The government will have to make things clear until we finish the process and get to the vote. We in these tactics do not commit ourselves to what we have said so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u368	Thank you. We will now continue with Mr. New Cretan from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have today a bill tabled as urgent, with the sole aim of organising a series of arrangements and extending the implementation of measures by the end of March, since the conditions imposed by these legislation continue to apply. The pandemic is still at the center of it. Prevention measures against the second wave appear to have finally improved the impact. The ESS has tolerated, despite the pressure, and economic activity is trying to adapt to these difficult circumstances. As all colleagues have mentioned the individual arrangements of the bill by unity and by Article, I would like to observe that our aim is not to avoid dialogue, but accountability to both the Greek Parliament and the Greek people. At the moment, I think our fellow citizens cannot understand the political friction, as between guaranteeing health and threatening uncontrolled management there is no second thought and political confrontation. It is a pretext that opposition must work and ask for justification for any government intervention or legitimisation, but it cannot blame anyone for not wanting the common good, ensuring the best conditions for avoiding its pandemic and the mechanisms for spreading it. If the politician in these circumstances thinks selfishly, then not only does he not do his high mission properly, serve man, that is, but it renders his dignity. So we can put as the basis of the dialogue that we all want to ensure health, we all want to ensure economic activity, we all want to return to the past pandemic everyday life. The mixture, therefore, of the legislation to be adopted is not intended to serve other purposes, but only man and the treatment of pandemic. Neither neoliberalism nor conservatism nor capitalism are hidden. Anxiety is hiding about global co-legislation and settlement of issues. In summary, the 50 articles of the Ministry of Health resolve cases of case detection, emergency response, and solve problems for the faster supply of materials from health regions. The eleven articles of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport other than the Ministry of Transport deal with bureaucratic procedures in order to directly integrate vehicles directly into the public transport sector from the financial leasing of urban buses by a tender opened for the purpose of increasing the routes. Article 118 of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food defines the irreparable and duty-free payment of aid to farmers, farmers and fishermen paid in the context of actions to address the impact of COVID. The seventeen articles of the Ministry of Interior include the very important possibility of paying late payments to the ATTs up to a hundred and twenty instalments, with the exemption of the charges that exist. The epilogue in my brief speech is a hint to everyone: to pay particular attention to informing our fellow citizens about the necessity of vaccination, calming them down and giving them an example of our own involvement in this process. It is a national obligation, a moral obligation against all the victims of this pandemic. I close with the post of the Greek nurse Panayotas - Helen Zitro, who works in a hospital in the United States, she was diagnosed by a coronary, she spent very difficult days and did the vaccine two days ago. He says: "Today I had the honour and privilege of making her vaccine “PFIZER” with my colleagues. I have never felt more beautiful as a health worker and as a member of society. This act is for me, for my family, for my friends, for my patients, for mankind, to stop this terrible disease. Today I was vaccinated because this vaccine was tested in tens of thousands of people and it turned out to be 95% effective. Today I was vaccinated in honor of one million six hundred thousand people worldwide who died of COVID. Today I was vaccinated in honor of the first-line workers, who have been struggling tirelessly since March, looking after the most ill patients in the hospital." That's all I wanted to say. Thank you. I wish everyone a merry Christmas and a good holiday!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u370	And we wish you good holidays. Miltiades Hatzigiannakis has the floor for seven minutes from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as has been very much said since the morning when we started this process, unfortunately the government has once again chosen this particular way of legislating which has now become a very bad habit. Parliamentary representatives of all the parties have said so, too many colleagues have said so. You bring us a bill on a large number of issues on Thursday night, which concerns many ministries, we need to prepare it, we need to be ready to see the positive provisions and make our criticisms. Unfortunately, it is not an effective state what you have put into very common operation. We have said that too many times. Every time we come to discuss a bill, we have to deal with a number of amendments, but also at the last minute. [[The President-in-Office of the Council of the European Communities, Mrs Sakhara Sakhara, is elected by the President-in-Office of the Council of the European Communities and is elected by the President-in-Office of the Council of the European Communities.]] I will concentrate on the part that Mr Kegeroglou has mentioned on the provisions of the Ministry of Interior. I will agree on the amendment as it has come. There is a positive provision at first instance. We understand the problem facing many of our fellow citizens. All local government has been asking for it a long time ago. The Ministry of Interior should have had a similar provision for a long time, because the conditions of pandemic have known them for nine months now. The problems faced by every citizen, especially economics, have now become a burden on all categories of citizens and citizens and were a request for a unanimous vote of the CEDEFOP. It comes last minute, on the other hand, but, even now, we have had all the positive intention of being creative and trying to help you and, above all, to help our fellow citizens. You are bringing us an amendment, as the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement rightly said. This is not a legal provision. You need the Central Association of Municipalities today to make an extraordinary board, in which, in reality, it is obvious, what everyone sees, that, as you put it, you will only help few co-institutions, few people, and you will in fact not help the cash facility of the municipalities. If they cannot regulate their debts and pay, they will have no benefit themselves. As this provision comes, we will see whether it is indeed legal and, if the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Finance agrees, that this amendment should be put in place, because it is in fact with the time limit that has come in, it will unfortunately be a gift for everyone, particularly for the citizens, but also for the local government. So we'll see what attitude we'll take. We are positive, I insist, first of all, as the provision had come, even within this bill on Thursday night, so it was also discussed in committee on Friday in the urgent procedure. More generally, we think that - although they have been late, as I have said - they are in a positive direction. But we have two very basic objections. One of the main objections is to the provision of Article 146, which again, while trying to do something right, to recruit staff I mean to Otto I and II for the need to take immediate preventive and repressive measures, we have a serious disagreement as you bring it back, with the decision of the relevant Economic Commission and the obligation - which you have made it the law of the State, unfortunately - of the municipal and regional councils to adopt the decisions of the Economic Committee. We have told you that these provisions are very unconstitutional. You are not letting us stand on the substance of the decision itself, which is positive, because we have exceptional circumstances, and we want to be alongside contract workers, but also with what is trying to solve, namely dealing with the pandemic. Unfortunately, as you bring it, it is also unconstitutional and directly opposed to the European Charter of Local Autonomousity, because you are, once again, being misused by you - the functioning of municipal and regional councils. Unfortunately, in this sense, we cannot be positive either, and in fact we should be positive. As far as Articles 148 and 149 are concerned, you have the decision of the WTO - TTA and other trade unions. We're telling you to change it now. Extension and elections to the service councils may be extended as long as the pandemic lasts. It's extraordinary. We cannot give you the agreement on electronic voting. They are vertically opposed to all trade unions and that makes sense. We cannot legitimise such decisions and such electoral procedures without having arrived at other provisions. We are also firmly opposed to this provision. We think that these procedures should be postponed as long as the respective terms are extended, as long as the emergency measures are retained. This is where we live an unprecedented situation, so it makes sense. We do not understand how we prevent it from now on that it will be no later than 28-2-2021. I wish we'd gotten out by 28-2-2021, but, because this is a difficult situation, we can't anticipate that. In this sense we are against this provision. I do not know why - to close with this - in Article 136, with regard to the exceptional settlement of debts, we only have one grade. I don't know if this was put in by the Minister responsible. The legal persons of the municipalities usually - and this is a proposal I make, if it is corrected - have a problem with the inter-level links, which, although most of them are legal persons of the municipalities, so grade one, but, because regions are also involved in means, are not usually included and create distortions of situations, as they have created in the level-based waste management links. That was my last point. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u372	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Have a nice holiday. Now Mr Kelles has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's urgent bill introduces a number of extremely critical regulations in relation to the treatment of pandemic, the support of the primary sector, the speed of the award of pensions and other matters within the framework of the treatment of the coronary and I shall certainly begin with health. We all agree that we are in a state of war in hospitals and all the sanitaries are exaggerating themselves to respond to the very difficult work they have undertaken. Of course, it is another thing to speak theoretically and to transfer to the House what you have heard, what you have been told, and it is quite different to live this in a CIVID hospital or in an intensive care unit. So this bill is coming to extend the contracts of doctors who have been hired to meet the needs created by the pandemic. I think there is no one who disagrees with that. Or, ladies and gentlemen of counterpopulation, are you saying no about converting MATH beds to ID? Fifty-seven IF beds left by the SYRIZA government, you know very well that it's not enough. You certainly agree that the conditions of use of rapid tests, the actions of the mobile special-purpose health groups, the procedure for the administration of medicines for CIVID patients and the procedure for sending medicines to vulnerable groups. I think that you agree with the availability of resources and the need for means to combat the coronary, the inclusion of uninsured and uninsured kidney disease in private dialysis units and other arrangements, which are linked to those of the other ministries. I also consider myself self-evident in preparing for vaccination the zero rate of VAT in vaccines and in medical devices and services related to the coronary. Furthermore, the Mitsotakis Government has not only been standing on the side of farmers and farmers since the first moment, but it has proved to be the most pro-agricultural government in the history of the country. We support every sector in the rural economy that has been damaged, with an integrated set of interventions. Up to now EUR 400 million has been allocated for damage to agricultural products and over 30 million for livestock farming. Aid is to be granted to pig farming, livestock farming, greenhouses, potatoes, peaches, watermelons, etc. The most important thing, however, is that all this aid paid to our farmers is both irresponsible and tax-free and does not need tax information for their recovery. You, ladies and gentlemen, and above all SYRIZA, will not vote for this? Aren't you going to vote for this thing? I won't be surprised. Do you know why it won't surprise me? Because neither the measures to compensate the world in Thessaly for the catastrophic damages of 'JANUE' did you vote. I come to the tourism sector. I would like to express my satisfaction with the leadership of the Ministry of Culture, which has responded to the request of tourist businesses and the Larissa Prefecture to extend the 'Tourism for All' programme for 2021, which was included in this bill. This development, on the one hand, enables beneficiaries of the programme to take a short break after a very difficult year and, on the other, professionals in tourism to be financially strengthened during a critical period. In the field of labour, with these provisions, the Ministry of Labour will solve a chronic problem, that of the award of pensions. Through the secondment of staff from other services and the use of even retired but experienced e-ECA staff, the award of old-year pensions is accelerated and the beneficiaries are exempted from the unacceptable expectation of two, three, even four years. The bill, of course, contains other important provisions. In particular, the provision of the Ministry of Transport to extend by one year the age limit for the withdrawal of the CCT, the tourist buses, the public passenger and general use, which gives a breath to the specific professionals affected by the pandemic, and at the same time the relevant services will be dismantled. I come to the Ministry of Defence, which I would like to thank Mr Panagiotopoulos, the Minister responsible for dealing with crisis and provocation issues of officers from above military schools of AASS official, providing the opportunity for an equal career for those who completed twenty-five years of actual service on 31-12-2015. Of course, Mr Minister, in order to restore full injustice, we are soon awaiting a similar provision for those who ranked in 1991 and 1992, as I have put it on several occasions and as you have been committed to this House a little while ago. We should also point out the provision whereby the Ministry of Interior provides the possibility of payment of late payment of citizens' debts to OTAs, up to a hundred and twenty instalments, while the provision of the Ministry of Civil Protection for the granting of their travel expenses and other targeted arrangements is also introduced. Finally, Article 156 extends the obligation to publish a summary of declarations in the regional and local press for another year. This strengthens transparency and recognises the work carried out by the regional and local press. And we in Larissa have the flagship of the provincial press, the newspaper "Hellenic" which provides innovative and comprehensive information, which many pan-Hellenic newspapers would be jealous of. Ladies and gentlemen, I am one of those who believe that pandemic cannot be the starting point for opposition, when even today you see what is happening throughout the Western world. On the other hand, I am not impressed by the fact that Civic Opposition will not vote in favour of this bill. In conclusion, I would like to say that this is a bill that strengthens our social protection grid and which we are voting for, leaving behind an extremely difficult year for the whole planet, in which Greece stood up. We expect that in 2021, with the implementation of vaccination and compliance with the protection measures, there will be a strong recovery for all Greek women and all Greeks. Good recovery to the hospitals. Merry Christmas, everybody. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Vecchi has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u375	Thank you very much, Madam President. You will allow me, Madam President, to begin with myself tonight and not so much about the bill. After all, all our previous colleagues and our rapporteur, Mr Ploris, have mentioned very much in the past hours and have explained everything in detail. I think that there is not much objection from opposition as well. It is only for the price of arms that I think this is all about whether it is urgent or not urgent or anything else. But I would like to mention the honour we have had for Zakynthos, that there should be a question of twenty-four SYRIZA Members for the Zakynthos Hospital. And by pressing on it to explain to you how they are trying to level everything up, saying unwise lies at the opportunity of this question they have asked. And I would really like to know where they draw the information from and if their information like that was in this question about the whole health system in Greece, you can finally see how far they are from reality all that they say. They say, then, in the question they have submitted that only thirty - nine qualified doctors are serving at the hospital. As if someone would believe that when they left the government in July 1919, they left us from the sixty-five organic positions that had been in one sixty. So, listen, what they took and what they gave. From 2015 to 2019, eight doctors resigned, six doctors retired, one ophthalmologist remained seconded to the "Branny" - and for four and a half years he did not return back - and I as a Member for leaving the hospital. We are talking about a total of sixteen people. How many were appointed to that time period? Eleven doctors. So when they left, they left us with a minus of five doctors. All this, because the question has been asked, will be submitted. Because we cannot now submit them to the House, we will submit them with official information. So they left us with five fewer doctors. As far as paramedical staff are concerned, because they keep saying that the hospitals left us with very large personnel, they appointed nine permanent, nine auxiliary and twelve OAEDs. A total of forty, then. And they left me distractions, transfers and more, thirty-four. So the benefit of the hospital was six employees of those appointed. We will say below that we have appointed ninety so far and are waiting for another ten to fifteen to be appointed in the next period. Then they say that the Hospital of Zakynthos left it in July with four pathologists, three pathologists and an intensive pathologist, who moved to the ICU who opened it, while - he says - there is also a pathologist who was seconded to the Corinth Hospital since 2010 and who have been spectacular. Watch why I'm talking about the marvelous. Indeed, the intensive worker was moved to the ICU, the one that opened for four and a half years and fooled the Zakynthians. At the same time, before we even transferred the editor to the ICU, we restored to Corinth's pathologically seconded manager, who for four and a half years didn't bring him, they just call it marvelous. And we brought another colleague from the health centre and did them five, as much as the organic positions that exist in pathological. And they say that this colleague, the pathologist who is here, is working only twice a week and says the man "I get rid of the other three days in the rest of the days"? Even the holidays have an active on-call. Whatever! So we had five pathologists. Then he quit one pathologist and left four. We are already in the process for a colleague who has been principal in pathology and who already has a contract with the Hospital of Zakynthos and who is re-engaging the number of five in the pathological clinic. At the same time, however, you should know that in the same clinic, in the same beds - it is the same section - there are three pneumonologists, the main speciality for the coronary and the period of pandemic. The ones in their question have disappeared. These do not exist in the hospital, do not provide services for the coronary, have left the system, they do not exist, so that they can make the question the way they wanted it. We made a contract with a general doctor - who also helps in the on-call system - and at the same time the pathological clinic has five qualified doctors. So in the question, they say there is a pathologist in this clinic, and in fact there are thirteen doctors in this department right now. All this will be filed with official papers. And when they left, they left us with 3+1, that is, with three pathologists and an intensive engineer. And we tell them there's at least thirteen doctors here right now. At the same time, it says that doctors’ appeals were dealt with by disgrace and arrogance and by authoritarianism and pressure from the hospital administration. Do you see that there was no care from the hospital administration to cover the problem created by doctors' resignations? It's all done. That's why there's a whole number of doctors. As for authoritarianism, you must not say this again, colleagues of the SYRIZA, because you will remind us that during your days there have been expulsions with forced permissions to the head of surgery, and at the same time you have transferred the anesthesiologist, the director of anesthetics to the Molas, to make sure that she is kept informed, and her position has been covered by an anesthesiologist you brought from Ioannina, because the position has been vacant. You only did it to get her together! What I would say to you to do as a favor is not really to make announcements about Zakynthos Hospital, because you're terrorizing patients, because they think you're around here! That's the only thing I have to say. And he goes on to say that "limit is the cardiology, the artificial kidney unit, surgery, pediatrics, radiology, we want an ophthalmologist, gastroenterologist". The cardiological clinic has three doctors. Three doctors left, three of us. In the artificial kidney unit, there were two, and we have a general doctor. As far as pediatrics is concerned, you must be ashamed, because on your day all four pediatricians resigned and now two pediatricians were placed, and we have announced another position of a pediatrician. You're telling us about radiology. The same number of doctors exists. And as for the ophthalmologist, four and a half years you knew he was in "General State" and you didn't bring him back, as you did not bring the manager of pathology, which we brought him, and you wonderfully say he was in Corinth for ten years. You're also talking about gastronologist. And here ironically I will tell you that we will bring him to the position you have created, since there is no body!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u376	Mr. Comrade, you need to close down slowly, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u377	I'll hang up with this in a minute, Madam President. And because they say that for these specialties they had also declared all these gaps, I will tell you that by the 1772/27-2019 they had declared only three posts, one child, one cardiologist and one intensifier. We came in on 13 February 2020 and we proclaim nine nephrotic, surgeon, cardiologist, two intensifier, anaesthetologist, pediatrician, microbiologist, ophthalmologist, on 20 July 2020 a position of intensifier and on 22 September 2020 a position of surgeon and a position of pathologist. That's it, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u378	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u379	I'm closing, Madam President. I'm sorry to refer exclusively to the Hospital in Zakynthos, but I wanted to tell you how far what you're talking about in society is actually all about. Thank you very much, Madam President, for your tolerance. Happy birthday and merry Christmas to everyone!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u380	Be well, too. Merry Christmas! For one minute, the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Kegeroglu, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u381	Madam President, thank you. I have taken the floor earlier because an amendment was tabled by way of the legislative improvement which effectively cancels the administration of the citizens' debts to the municipalities. I am aware that Mr Petsa's amendment on very serious issues and also on many articles by the Minister for Health. And my explanation comes first of all, because this morning, after the announcement of the 'too tight' process and the short years for each speaker, there was an'slip-hand' unexplained. It was just for there to be time for the amendments to be made at the last minute and for them to be tabled. Madam President, we are also calling for the withdrawal of the legislative improvement - we have already called for it - of this article - in 136, point 26 - and for the government to bring it into line with an amendment. If she is not ready, she should withdraw the articles in question. I do not know what it will do, but certainly this amendment is not a legislative improvement. In addition, what we are asking is that the two amendments should not be tabled at all for debate at all than one. After all, the contractual time that the House was going to discuss is over. By six o'clock this afternoon it was set. It's over now. We're in five. It is not time normal according to the Conference. There are therefore no amendments that we will agree to be discussed in this House beyond that limit. That's it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your understanding, which is obviously about the accumulated fatigue of everyone after a very difficult year which is coming to an end. For us in the Ministry of Health, there is no question of holidays and holidays. As you can see, it continues a huge effort parallel to COVID, the hospitals of the ESS, our doctors, and the attempt to protect the population, both in terms of the technical vaccination campaign and in terms of the whole shot of the vaccination logistics. That is why the representatives of the parties are invited to the Ministry of Health every week to be thoroughly informed. It is an effort and a battle that will last over the next few months, and we hope with your help and obviously the Greek people will succeed. I would like to officially inform the National Representation that in its initial phase, which has to do with the approval of the EMA, the European Medicines Agency, it has been approved and we expect it to be completed by the Member States by the end of the evening, the emergency administration of the PFIZER - BIONTECH vaccine in Europe. As far as I am concerned, whether or not we approve the 'MODERNA' vaccine, if I am not mistaken on 6 January. Developments are therefore important and hopeful. I will repeat once again that we have reached the point at the end of a huge adventure and public health crisis, a pandemic presented to the world once in a hundred years. This does not mean, once again, that we are vaccinated and no longer respecting individual protection measures, keeping social distance, keeping an eye on our health, respecting vulnerable groups. It means, however, that there is hope ahead of us. Hope is the driving force for people, and I think that in this spirit and with that logic we must complete the effort we are making. The amendment by the Ministry of Health has to do with the legislation, because that is what we think is right, in the whole process of supplying the vaccines, has to do with the storage and maintenance of vaccines, the authorisation of vaccines by the National Vaccines Authority, the National Vaccine Programme, it has to do with the establishment and functioning of the National Vaccine Register, obviously in order to register our fellow citizens who are vaccinated, with the priorization of vaccines against COVID in accordance with the guidelines of the National Vaccine Authority. So, what we have said all this past month, what the National Vaccine Authority has decided, what is provided for under the existing European legislation and what the European Commission has decided on behalf of the Member States, we are also coming to legislate now that this decision on the first vaccine also exists and we hope in turn for another range of vaccines that the European Commission has already proposed on behalf of the Member States. With regard to the other articles in the provision, it is about the administrative and property autonomy of the ERC special hospital, extending the deadline for applying for the reception of the medical expertise, the voluntary programme, which we had last year, if you remember, enables the citizen to help the ERC or structures of the ERC in relation to COVID. I think you all understand the very great effort that has been made over this entire period and which, as I personally committed myself, must always be in a legislative context. Therefore, by summarising the initiatives taken by the Government and the European Commission and the European Union and the Member States - in terms of vaccines, how they are supplied, how they are approved by the Coreper, how they are approved by the National Authority for Vaccines, how they will be purchased by the country, how they are kept, how they are transported from the pharmacopoeia to vaccination centres etc. Legislation should have come to the House. That is precisely what we have done today, so that we can support the whole project. My fellow ministers will support the ministerial amendments which I have been telling you, so that I do not constantly speak, that I shall approve and be the following: 679, 686, 688, 699, 705, 706, 707 and 708. We do not accept, Madam President, the parliamentary amendments. That's all I had to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u384	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u385	Wait a minute, 'cause Mr. Squirrelakis wants to talk first, finish the circle with Mr. Pessa, and immediately afterwards. Do you want them to hear you now, Mr. Skourlet?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u386	I think they'd better listen to me now, because that's what they have to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u387	First of all, don't be upset, calm down. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u388	Thank you. Minister, you are indeed very kind and have thanked us since the morning two and three times, every time you take the floor and it actually shows another crop. At the same time, however, do not mock us. It cannot, on critical issues - because what you are talking about is very critical - concern the crucial issue of vaccination, which is a bet and which we all have to support - come to only five and come with a multi-purpose amendment, which is impossible for us to exercise our parliamentary duties. It is a sound mockery and a trial, once again, of parliamentary procedures. So get her back. There is a legislative act. You can do, in this time that is being imposed, your work and do not fool us. This thing can't be done. It can't be done! And neither will the other ministers take the floor at this time, at five and five. What for? Do you want to do it otherwise, go on tomorrow? Tomorrow there is parliamentary scrutiny with timely questions. So give us time to study and come tomorrow. You said you didn't go on vacation. I believe you, alas, Minister of Health. Come on, then, tomorrow. But no more mocking. It does not show respect, it creates distrust in the world that listens to us right now. What are they trying to do, tell you, in five and five, to pass through such multipurpose devices, which are impossible to study? If I told you to present it in detail, you would not be aware of the exact content. So this thing can't be done. I invoke your democratic sensitivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u389	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u390	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u391	Mr. Buquoir, why don't we let the Minister answer? Come on, you have the floor for just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u392	Madam President, we are listening with caution to the objections of counter-population, but it is certain that if all this legislative material, which is facing over-critical situations - here we say that the vaccine comes on 26 December in Greece and on 27 December, the vaccinations are under way, but also all the other urgent issues that have to do with the consequences of the pandemic - if the government chose the path of legislative acts, we would hear the same criticism from the Opposition: 'Why are you bringing legislative acts and you do not bring a bill and you do not bring any changes in time?' We have said that this bill is facing over-needed needs in all sectors of society and the economy and, above all, in the public health system. The vaccine bet, ladies and gentlemen, we will all win it together. We have to be absolutely ready, and that's what the ministry is doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, too, and I will also give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Karathanasopoulos, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u394	Excuse me very much, we said that a broom bill should come and deal with emergency issues. The question of how the vaccination will be organised was such an emergency matter that came at 7 p.m.? Unless the government has legislation on the treatment of vaccination. Because there were plans, there were discussions. They can't come at 21.00' twenty-two articles on how vaccination will be organised. It is unacceptable, at the time the procedure is closed. Now did you find these, Minister? Now has the inspiration come to you? Is it possible to bring them at 7 p.m.? And, Mr. Petsa, I'm sorry, did you have anything else in the past time to bring it to you at 19.00, too, your amendment on how the area of advertising is to be shaped? Couldn't you do it earlier? What's wrong with you? What was the obstacle you have had all this time to bring this amendment, to be able to study it? It is not possible until the procedure is closed. These are unacceptable methods, precisely because we cannot discuss these issues in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u395	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u396	Madam President, can I have the floor for ten seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u397	Ten seconds, not ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u398	Ten seconds, thank you. Because Mr. Karathanasopoulos covered me in the piece that says that the issue of vaccination is too serious to come at 19.00, with an amendment, without a debate, without the world being informed, I will agree with the proposal because the Minister has made a suggestion, in his kindness, and he said "you will leave, but we will be open to the Ministry of Health". No, Minister, to keep the House open, to discuss democratically and responsibly and not so. Because you are deceiving the issue of vaccination. You're deceiving it right now. Either you go in the constitutionally responsible way, which is the legislative act - and no one said anything about any act in the pandemic, no one said anything, because there will be the opportunity to discuss it with Genaris and to inform the citizens, constitutionally planned - or the debate will continue tomorrow after studying your multi-page amendments, because others are also Mr Petsa, and we will be coming tomorrow to the public to be informed responsibly. Because I think that from the Stepping of the House the political world has contributed if it is responsible for the issue of vaccination. That's what we're asking, not to get through to the duo and the thieves at the last minute. Which last time has passed, at 6 p.m. the House ended, it is now, at the concession of the President-in-Office, who gave us simple time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u399	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The floor will now be taken by Mr. Skoplakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u400	In the morning when I doubled your time, Mr. Kegeroglu, you weren't saying that!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u401	That's what I'm saying, Mr. Kaklamani. You've given us simple time. Why did you give him to us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u402	So don't say that time...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u403	Why did you give us time? Is it for the amendment to come at 7 p.m.?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u404	Time passed because times doubled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u405	Really? Why did you give him to us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u406	You didn't want him?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u407	We wanted him. And what do you want now? Would you like to humiliate us, Mr. Kaklamani? I said tomorrow to be discussed...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u408	I'm talking about time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u409	I commended you first for giving us time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u410	Mr. Kegeroglu, can I have the floor for you too?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u411	Ladies and gentlemen, please, we must listen to the Minister. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u412	I would like, before the Minister comes to the essence of the matter, which concerns his amendment on vaccinations and how to handle them, to give some clarification on the issue of the regulation on ITAs. The clarifications are two and the legislative part, namely the fact that this is a bill, which is basically a coronary, and the regulation must be limited to the coronary concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u413	Was it the coronary?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u414	I'll tell you. On substance, the generalised arrangements - because this is where the substance, which is more important than the formula - is currently not helping. We have a European commitment, which says that stable policies should not be implemented, especially when they have a financial effect, now that the general clause of escaping from budgetary conditions is in force. The general evasion clause is not compatible with fixed policies. Therefore, any arrangements that we make, which are of a financial nature, must, in particular, be limited to those relating to the coronary. That is why this legislative improvement is necessary. This does not increase the financial cost.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u415	This is not a legislative improvement. At least tell her by her name, it's a legal deterioration.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u416	It is an improvement, Mr Kegeroglu, from the perspective of public money, which is always my concern.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u417	So you blame Theodorikos for wanting to abuse public money?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u418	Not at all. We say that in relation to budgetary burden it is an improvement. I consider the budget to be first. In relation to aid to the world, there will be to all those affected, and this will be an extremely favourable legislative improvement, because it revives a regulation of the past, which is extremely favourable. I have been through too many years in local government, and I can assure you that these arrangements require a broader reform, which we promise to bring, so that - we have discussed it with Mr Theodorikos and with Mr Livanios - the next arrangement that we will bring for the OTAs, with the good after the pandemic, will also close the history of the arrangements in line. I was a Vice Mayor in 2003, 2004, 2005, and I saw a couple of arrangements when I was in that position in Athens. They followed again and again debt arrangements to the OTA, which meant that something is not done properly in this OTA debt case. We must somehow build a system that is more effective. Here, then, the urgency is to help people pressured by the coronary. This will be done in this particular case. The rest of the good stuff when the pandemic's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u419	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Petchas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u420	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, with full respect for what Mr Kegeroglou, Mr Karathanasopoulos and Mr Alexiades have said before, I have to say that Amendment No 708 is not a new provision. It is a provision introduced in the bill - that Directive 1808/2018 was not incorporated and that other issues of the General Secretariat for Communication and Information - were regulated in public consultation as from 3 December. However, it was considered appropriate to introduce and vote before the end of the year, because the expectation on the market had been cultivated that a 4% revision would take place, as I will say now, and some legal improvements had to be made by the Ministry of Finance in relation to the Code of Taxation and the Code of Income Tax. So it is not a new provision. It is something that has been in consultation, and I repeat, since 3 December. What is this amendment doing? It reforms the legal framework of advertising to SMEs. It clarifies the alternative relationships between advertisers and the media, as well as advertising companies that are traded with the media on behalf of the competitors on the basis of a written mandate from their customers, and the terms and conditions and procedures for legal certainty are laid down. Also, the 4% maximum discount is now reformed to 9.9% in order to adapt to the market, and it applies to the entire advertising expenditure for 2020. The delay in tabling the amendment is mainly related to its last part: the framework for imposing sanctions on infringements of the provisions of the provision is streamlined and, given that they are tax infringements, they are part of the relevant tax framework under Law 4174/2013 - the Code, i.e. tax procedure - and the obsolete administrative sanctions are abolished. A similar article is added to Law 4172/2013 of the Code on Income Tax, concerning terms and procedures for the deduction of advertising expenses. Finally, for the first time, specific provisions on the proper functioning of competition and the prevention of distortions in this sector are introduced and specific reasonable restrictions are made. I would also like to thank the House, because in the other articles, Article 64, Article 156, Article 157 and Article 158 of the bill, which regulates issues of the General Secretariat for Communication and Information in particular - in particular the issues of extension by one year of registration in the regional and local press and the discount of 52% of regional television stations to DIGEA - than I have seen at noon and this afternoon in the debate were widely accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u421	Thank you, too. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u422	Thank you, Madam President. There is no doubt about the urgency. I tried to explain that we were all anxiously expecting all of Europe to make a decision on a date so that Coreper decided, it was for the 29th of the month or for the 21st or for the 22s or 23s, but it was finally decided today. However, I understand the way in which my colleagues are placed. And you know that is something that we have discussed several times through representatives and health authorities of all parties. In fact, there was an information field and there was also an area of understanding. And I don't want him to understand for any reason that there's something to hide. The opposite is true. And colleagues know that. In fact, the most experienced colleagues, like Mr. Kegeroglu, know very well and function...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u423	Tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u424	Don't interrupt me, Mr. Comrade. Learn to respect your interlocutor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u425	Ah-ha-ha!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u426	It's not a jungle here! Wait till you hear my answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u427	I respect and wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u428	I can't see it. So I asked the Bureau of Parliament whether there is a possibility under the Rules of Procedure of the House to continue tomorrow. There is no possibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u429	Who says that? It's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u430	Wait a minute. Listen to the proposal, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u431	Don't yell, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u432	But I understand that time is needed to consider this amendment. And, in order to find a solution, I would ask you, Madam President, to interrupt the sitting for one hour, to consider the amendment here, to come back, to discuss the amendment by the end of the night and to vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u433	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u434	Madam President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u435	Yes, I give you the floor for a minute, and then I'll say the suggestion I have to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u436	Thank you, Madam President. The amendment, with a general number 706 and a special number 123, deals with the question of financial support for tourist accommodation, which were exceptionally operational during the first wave of pandemic, for reasons of public interest, with a view to temporary residence of natural persons in the context of the treatment of the coronary. The amount of financial aid to be paid to these undertakings by the public authorities shall be fixed. They are tax free, unrestricted and unregulated in the hands of the public or third parties, while they are not bound and unreasonable to public, tax administration, local government agencies, insurance funds and banks. This applies if the conditions for tax and insurance information are met, without the condition of retention. It is a necessary intervention because these tourist enterprises have borne considerable costs by complying with the particular health protocols associated with their operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u437	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u438	Madam President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u439	Just a minute, Mr. Comrade. The Minister was absolutely right on the matter of urgency and on the fact that the debate must be concluded today, because the bill, as you know, has been classified as urgent and Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure says that the debate and the vote on urgent legislative and urgent legislative proposals will be concluded at a meeting lasting not more than ten hours. I have a suggestion for you. To conclude the list of colleagues, which is four plus Mr Bukkoro, who is the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, who has not spoken. We should take a break to give you time to study about one hour - I do not know if you want more - the amendments. And then, with your dentures, you'll be placed. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u440	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u441	Parliamentary representatives will be given the floor. We'll start with SYRIZA and Mr. Skourlet. You have the floor for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u442	Minister, I think you didn't understand us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u443	I'm in a good mood.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u444	I'm in a good mood, but be careful to see. First of all, when we started the debate today. Initially there was parliamentary scrutiny of topical questions at 18.00 p.m. He's gone for tomorrow at 9:00 in the morning. So tomorrow Parliament has normal functions. I would therefore ask you not to carry out an act which is an objective undermining of the vaccination procedure. That's what this is about. They're being born questionably. Don't take it on your back. Do not combine your name with a process that will give rise to questions and damage. It is so simple what we are asking you to do: either the road to the legislative act will be followed or we will be going to a two-hour time tomorrow and we will finish the procedure. We can now stop and talk to the other four colleagues left tomorrow and finish. Parliamentary representatives have exhausted their circle. There is a small second word left by the rapporteurs and we must conclude. It's so simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u445	Madam President, I also want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u446	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u447	I should also like to refer to the issue of staff, which I will be passing quickly. There's no disrespect on your face. The question, however, is respect for Parliament and, above all, respect for the citizens, who really have questions and who are trying in every way to guide them to listen to the scientists, the responsible institutional view and not the satibagus. And you must strengthen this, not to plunder it. You weren't here this morning. In the committee, despite the procedural considerations, we said that a number of articles which are in a positive direction should be voted on and, indeed, we should have voted yesterday. So there is no rivalry sterile with regard to the bill, beyond the issues that have to do with the process and, of course, some regulations that have been introduced completely unacceptable. But that's another matter. Now, first of all, the time had to be discussed by the bill has expired. From 10:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. is the limit. There is no provision beyond that, as you say about the Rules of Procedure. So it's expired, the conversation's over. I think that we should not stand up to the Rules of Procedure, which means that the bill should be withdrawn. That's what it means. The bill was not passed in the tenth hour as the Rules say, it does not exist. If, therefore, the President of Parliament, who will be informed, wants us to insist on this process, we must come tomorrow very calmly to see after parliamentary scrutiny in a two-hour, three-hour, four-hour, as far as is necessary, in substance, the very serious issues involved in the amendment. It is very serious what the amendment contains to get through to the shower. And be careful, do not and give any amendments to the media, that we were supposedly unable to discuss the issue of vaccination, because this will still be a mistake, since the debate will be re-orientated. I'm telling you. So I end up with the following. We insist on coming tomorrow, as the government wants. It could, of course, also, with our consent in advance, come out of an act of legislation and Genoa to discuss, to give a message, as it concerns vaccination, and that is very important. But don't go through it like that, in the duo, and after the end of the legal term of operation of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u448	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. I just want to remind you - you will allow me to do this - that overcoming time has to do with overcoming the speaking time, the parliamentary representatives and the heads of the parties. And that means that we have been out of time - let me, please, to be fair - by the one laid down in the Rules of Procedure. I made a suggestion to you. I would very much like you to think about her, because I'm very afraid that there is no alternative. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u449	Madam President, we must show all the good will to the Minister for Health, since it is about setting a date that has now been set and the network must be organised. Let us accept this as an excuse. However, this concerns the first ten articles. The other articles do not concern the issue of vaccination. So, now you remembered the issue of drug spending? Now? Now did you remember the issue of the financial self-sufficiency of a special hospital in the ERC? Now you remember those things and put them in a number of other provisions? But that's not true. These were known in advance and you wanted to regulate them. How did you bring them at 19.30, Minister, since they are not related to the issue of vaccination? The amendment was tabled at 19.30 p.m. Does he have an emergency? Is it related to COVID or to how the advertising is organised? Mr Petsa's amendment must be withdrawn and the new year should come, we should discuss it properly, we should also take part in any bodies. It cannot be discussed in this way because it has nothing to do with the issues related to the coronary. It is a more comprehensive regulation of advertising expenditure. And are we going to talk about it in about five, even with half the hour you say, give it a margin? In other words, these are issues that are escaping from all logic. And with all the good will to accept what the Minister says about vaccination, but the rest is not related to him. Why did you bring them at this hour? I mean, they're self-evident of what they're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u450	Come on, Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u451	Madam President, I will repeat once again that it is a bill dealing with issues that pandemic creates in the vast majority of its articles. And what articles or amendments are not related to the pandemic, as you have heard from Mr. Skalakakis, do not bring any financial costs, which is the first to be considered by the House and all the relevant departments. As regards Mr Petsa's amendment, it is the end of the year and calls for the entire market to regulate this issue. It's the so-called bonus years. And, if you want, it's an arrangement that's important to the market. They're asking for it in total. It's the last bill. Now, on how to look at the Health Ministry's amendment, I see, on the one hand, that colleagues raise the typical issue of the end of the ten-hour debate, which, as you have quite rightly explained, we have exceeded 10 hours, because two Heads of State came and spoke for more than one hour, we have the extension of the speech of fellow Members, who were enough, and all these issues. In other circumstances, we would not have spent the tenth hour and all this would have been within the year. But, on the one hand, we cannot put formal obstacles on the one hand, that we have exceeded 10 hours, and on the other hand, we are asking to circumvent the Rules of Procedure, Article 109, under which we are discussing the urgency of the draft law, as well as very well you have explained. In other words, on the one hand, the opposition calls on us to overlook all the predictions and, on the other hand, calls for us to be completely formal in the tenth and how the legislative work will develop. I'm finishing up, saying we're going to agree...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u452	Tomorrow!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u453	Mr Colleague, I always listen to you. Madam President, we will agree with the proposal you have tabled. It may not be sufficient time for the one hour to be interrupted at the end of the placement, but it is an agreement that can be made in a parliamentary context. And, in any case, get the opposition parties to know, not as much as we and them would like, but in urgent situations there are urgent functions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u454	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u455	Madam President, I would like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u456	You can make your statement, Mr Colleague, and continue with the list of colleagues, with the proposal I have made to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u457	Madam President, if the Government does not accept a substantial debate on both amendments, which it has brought up at the last minute - and others at least for the two - with the extension of the debate tomorrow, because there is obviously no possibility of studying now, we will leave the process, once it announces such a decision, which boldens dialogue and consensus on vaccination.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u458	Your statement has been recorded, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u459	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u460	You want to make a statement? Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u461	Madam President, since there is an irrational obsession, which, in my opinion, works extremely underminingly in relation to the vaccination process, and you insist that we look at amendments which constitute a small bill, we are unable to give an opinion on these amendments. I therefore imagine that you will also put the point of order in this House, because there is the proposal to go for tomorrow. You guys will handle this anyway. As soon as we continue, we will not be posted on these amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u462	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs. Bakada, raise your hand. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u463	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, it is an extremely important issue. It is a struggle that we should all give together and win the bet on the vaccination. And frankly, with the practice you are adopting, ladies and gentlemen of the Government and of the New Democracy, you are not helping the common fight we have to give. Already, unfortunately, if we look at polls, citizens are alert to the vaccine. It's a common fight. We have to give him up together. Don't try, don't put mines. Because it is an extremely serious issue, and it concerns the future of all of us, I, too, will agree with the proposal tabled by my colleagues, calling for me to interrupt today and come back tomorrow so that we can discuss with all the time and with all the good will that we have such a serious issue, such as this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u464	Madam President, I would like to make a statement a few seconds. We heard Mr. Kegeroglu...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u465	First of all, I did not give you the floor, Mr President. You're always in such a hurry! Mr. Bukouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u466	Madam President, thank you. I have heard Mr Kegeroglu say 'Let us hold a meeting tomorrow, even though it is not provided for under Rule 109 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure'. I would understand the reality of objections if colleagues were to say that it is not enough an hour and instead of having the three-hour meeting tomorrow, we should give three hours of extension, three hours of interruption today. That would be understandable, but it cannot, on the one hand, raise formal questions and, on the other, call for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure to be exceeded. In order not to create false impressions, the issues with the vaccine know them all are in the sphere of publicity. We all have access to what views are circulating. This is the technical management of the receipt of vaccines, the reception of refrigerators, the establishment of vaccination centres. It's purely technical. It is a disastrous mistake, in my view, and it fuels the anti-vaccination movement, to take a technical issue of vaccination and if you want to identify it with any objections and any movements that exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u467	You're undermining the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u468	Nothing else, my dear colleague. That is all you're trying to do...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u469	A 30-second statement you told me you were going to make a speech. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u470	...and that's what I think is wrong, Madam President. Let's not go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u471	Since I am always obliged to keep the Rules of Procedure, and because I cannot put the two motions in the voting procedure, because the Rules of Procedure say otherwise, I will insist on what I have said before, that you can have an hour to study the amendments that have been tabled at the last minute and I must say that it is something that we have discussed many times, that it is very difficult to table amendments at the last minute, and that Members cannot study them in order to decide, but I cannot do so otherwise, because it is urgent. You have unanimously decided that the speeches of Members and Members of Parliament will be extended, so the fact that the time laid down in the Rules of Procedure has been exceeded is not something that the Bureau should check. You made up your mind. That is why I would like you to decide on your own, if you want to take this extension of one hour, or whether we will normally go to the process. But at the moment, we will continue the process with the speakers. There are only three other speakers left, Mr Papapas, Mr Bubas, Mrs Apatzidis and the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Bukoros. Mr. Pappas has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u472	Thank you very much. Madam President, I am ashamed as a Member of Parliament and of great concern as a citizen when so critical issues come to the National Representation, not only in the form of urgency, but when the list of speakers has been completed. It is disrespectful to the democratic process, and I think it fills with paradoxists' tanks. This must be understood by the political leadership of the Ministry of Health and not insist, when the opposition, as shown by the positions of the parliamentary representatives, raise very serious issues. I think that this behaviour breaks every record of insulting parliamentary procedures. I would like to ask the following question: I, as a Member of Parliament, how can I decide and know whether this amendment also relates to the framework within which the known company will manage the data for which there has been so much noise in the last few days? Is it possible that these things will come at the last minute? Is it possible for the majority to legislate in terms of pitfall, to make a festive attack, which, obviously, aims to deviate permanently from justice and transparency? In my opinion, this is explained because it seems that extreme right has taken its heads in New Democracy. We have heard Mr Voridis blame him for ERT, not obviously because of Accuracy and Cassaha, but ERT, which has a video displacement. Of course, Mr Vorides himself announced in the same position that the single payment for six hundred thousand farmers is being reduced in practice. It is clear what is going on here, and the Ministry of Health should not fall into this slip. Let me refer to the issues relating to the regulations of the bill. For nine months there has been nothing about public transport. Two moves have been made. The first relates to the order of rotten buses from Leipzig, which go up on the climb of Chortiatis and get on fire, and the second concerns a competition for drivers and engineers, which took place after the voices and protests of the workers and the counterpopulation, in which, after the list of successful and perpetrators with personal data, this post came down and was up in a different order of ranking. Today, without an apology for chaos and crowds in public transport, which, of course, are responsible for the dispersion of the coronary, the government comes and legislates free of charge for direct awards, namely the continuous and unconditional derogation from Law 4412. The government majority must know that the Court of Auditors will monitor everything and we will move in this direction systematically. It also calls for an extension of the age limits of buses, public and private, traffic on the streets. New extension after three extensions within the year. There was time to boost transportation. That's not the choice. The competition for the seventy-five modern buses we had was cancelled, and the ninety-two buses in the Attica region, which was received by the Patoli administration, and more than three hundred vehicles are currently waiting for micro-liquids to be corrected, so that they can be served and that is not done. It is painful that the government has, at the moment, succeeded - not in this procedure - in literally folding the diplomas of engineers, economists and geotechnics, with the unacceptable regulation of the equalisation of the professional rights of graduates of colleges, without any other condition. We support both the TEI and the Economic and the Geotechnical Chamber. Allow me now to go to an infrastructure issue, which I cannot leave a problem, because we have heard the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport admit that on the issue of the northern road axis of Crete after seventeen months of absolute misfortune and mockery of citizens, the Cretans, the government is returning to the original design, in the three different competitions, with the studies that have been carried out on the design that we had started. We would like to see this thing done for the other major projects. It is something for which we cannot stand before the National Representation and say that we see it happening elsewhere, such as Patras - Tower, E65, on the metro of Thessaloniki, etc. And a series of projects that could give our economy a development boost. I would say, and that we are in a situation where we have now become general assumption that our economy will experience painful situations, because that is just what it is. Unfortunately, he admitted, for the economy and small and medium-sized enterprises, the Governor of the Bank of Greece. We have been telling them since March that very little of the liquidity that the banks have taken from the European Central Bank has been channelled to small businesses, and then the government has whistled indifferently. Unfortunately, the government reveals the position and the state of politics. It's inertial, incompetence and lies. Fortunately, however, for society, more and more will be faced with these practices. The demand for progressive governance is densed every day and a front of political and social forces that will soon be called upon to raise Greece can become a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u473	Thank you very much. Mr Bukoros, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u474	Thank you, Madam President. I will try to be shorter than the time you have given me and again stress that we must be particularly careful about such major issues that concern the Greek society, such as vaccination, that there is no confusion of pure technical issues, such as the reception of vaccines, refrigerators, equipment and vaccination centres, in general terms on this issue. If we play with these issues, we show that we're talking about other things we believe. So we don't need to be divested. Today's bill has said a lot of things, ladies and gentlemen. However, the more - more than the opposition parties - I hear about how you legislate in the last bill of the year, about the amendments and all these issues in a bill with the label 'worms', which regulates the loose ends of many areas of public life, of society, of the economy and, above all, issues arising from the COVID pandemic -19, the less I think you have to say about the very content of the provisions. Of course, the procedures are Parliament's soul and the soul of our democracy, but not completely ignore the substance of these provisions, as happened today throughout the day. Because what does this bill regulate? Doesn't it regulate over-care issues? Of course I will not go into all the articles. I shall refer to just a few of them, in the form of a glossary. Should Article 118, brought by the Minister for Rural Development, not regulate that the COVID aid is given without insurance and tax information and is inappropriate? An aid of 126 million will be paid for the oil producers on the 24th day of the month. Should this aid not be shielded for Greek farmers? And, of course, the rest of the payments will also be made, because we heard of one single aid cut in the previous period, because a very large percentage was given on Friday and today 70 million of the single aid was credited and a whole wave has risen. Now that the money has been paid, what do the critics have to say? What do they have to say about the fact that compensation for farmers and farmers will be paid on 24 December? What do they have to say that this great aid to our oil producers, 126 million, will be paid up to 24-12 and all other aids due to COVID decided by the Ministry of Rural Development be paid up by 31-12? I'm going to stand on some other issues too. But these are issues which solve the hands of Greek farmers and farmers. In Article 93, where I have not heard anyone speak, which is the responsibility of the State Secretary for Social Security and Welfare, Mrs Michaelidou, do you know that a candidate contractor or foster parent is waiting six months today, growing up because of COVID and the burden of nursing establishments, to get a health certificate and, while they are ready to go ahead, the adoption is waiting for these people? Shouldn't it be settled? It has nothing to do with the pandemic, it's indirectly. Shouldn't it be settled? It has to be adjusted. I would like to congratulate Mrs Michaelidou, because we are of the opinion that no child without a family should be allowed to go along with the procedures, allowing candidates and foster parents to obtain these certificates both from TOMY and from health centres and from other health establishments. Because it had been pre-processed, all the children in Greece who are in institutions, a thousand nine hundred, became parents' seminars, all on a platform. Isn't that an urgent social issue? Aren't you going to vote on Article 93? What other articles do you want me to refer to that are not urgent? Does Article 52 and 53 of the Ministry of Finance, which gives our blind fellow citizens with disabilities over 80% of the exculpatory provisions and reduces VAT, does it not have an urgent nature? The 50 or more articles of the Minister of Health and the amendments are not urgent? Shouldn't they be voted on now when we're talking? Do you disagree? Will you vote against these articles, which concern so sensitive and vulnerable social groups? Article 60 on bank interbank debits and e-commerce charges? I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen of the Police Department. The European Regulation 751 has been in place since 2015. You have ruled the country for over four years and you have not legislated anything about bank charges. He pays from bank to bank the citizen is charged 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 euros. The retentions of the microprofessionals are great and the government is coming and gives a decisive role to the Bank of Greece, the Consumers' Counsel and the Competition Committee to finally go to Regulation 751, to limit the charges on the banks to citizens. Do you disagree with that? Will you vote against that, too? And, of course, press articles in 156, which gives what the entire regional press wants. Here comes the government, we've experienced a wave of fast news, that the right to publish regional press statements is being abolished all last month. It's the end of the year. Do you know what will happen, ladies and gentlemen, if we haven't legislated before the year ends? In all the public services it will go that the issue of rights to publish declarations has not been voted on and, in order to regulate this issue, it will take two and three months, which means a loss of revenue from the provincial press, so it must be voted on immediately. And you're gonna tell me, why didn't you vote for it? Because there is a debate in Europe and all these issues. I believe that we will continue and need transparency to continue to publish and in the coming years and not just for a year that is now being extended. Because transparency is enhanced through the press release, through the cool and balanced voice of the press release. Enhancing transparency is this article. At the cost of transporting the forms, do you disagree? How much better to have had the commitment of the Secretary of State for Finance from the Step of the House to consider dealing with transport costs and with the regional press in accordance with the standards laid down in Article 60, which we are voting on today. Will you vote against all this? I wanted to show, and I will end here, because of its advanced time, Madam President, that this bill faces real needs created by pandemic, real needs of society, real needs of vulnerable social groups, and also the needs of the economy, which are also tested by pandemic. Now whether some amendments have come sooner or not may be a matter, ladies and gentlemen. But if we stay in the press and not in the essence, when it comes to dealing with urgent problems that burn the world, we're all really judging. And the government, which legislates today on its own initiative and Parliament's vote, also seeks some beneficial provisions and regulations, and the opposition, which, while saying that it agrees with many of them, seeks some moves to vote against them. Truthfulness, unity, consultation in the face of the major issues created by pandemic, particularly the major issue of vaccination, which must begin and evolve successfully. Because it is not right - the Chief of Officerial Representation to come here today and say 'I do not blame you for the number of vaccines, because it is a negotiation at European level' and last Saturday morning the SYRIZA spokesman responsible for charging criminal responsibilities to the government because he provided three hundred thousand vaccines as the first dose, because this is entitled in proportion and population. Finally, you can't say a white one, a black one, and occasionally turn them and as it suits you. So I'd say seriousness and coolness in front of these issues. We call on you to vote at least for the vast majority of the articles, because they are beneficial to society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u475	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Boumbas has the floor from the Greek Solution for seven minutes. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u476	Thank you, Madam President. Perhaps the government - because it is used to us - to bring this year's evening, to put a few amendments to the basilica as a gift, a few tests. It would be a great climate, since most of us won't go to church. We've been banned. The churches are closed. They'll be at least twenty-five or fifty people. We'll be more romantic. He could do it. You know, now, why do we, as a Greek Solution, break up? We understood that. This habit of bringing amendments at the last minute, two into one, you have done so a few times. You did so with the issue of ENPIA on the islands of less than two thousand inhabitants. You did it for the community of Mount Athos, gentlemen. You're blurring the water. That's not how it works. The ministers, the State Secretarys, the Parliamentary Representatives. For free the seven grand of MPs at the end! We don't need the MPs. Pick up family there, do your own lobby, decide, and if time is left for the MPs, who have the vote of the Greek people, to speak. Where should I start? Mr Bukkokouros has now challenged me for the new common agricultural policy. Our President, Kyriakos Velopoulos, has tabled a question today, gentlemen, on the arguments that we must have, because subsidies of up to 750,000 000 million a year are limited to 4.25 billion. When will this notorious National Farmer Register become, to know who the real farmers are, why are they illegal? And the government must now fight the Commission in Brussels because of the new CAP and because of the GATT Treaty, gentlemen, you have signed with the third countries which are imported. And you dare not impose a tax on carbon dioxide - there we will open another debate - so that subsidies are not lost, because it will really be a disaster for the livestock sector. I'm from a farm feeder county, Serres Prefecture. Velopoulos knows the issue of livestock farming very well. She's filing this question. We're waiting for answers. We're entrepreneurs. Where did you put into the agricultural oil budget? Where do you put for the livestock world in the budget for the death of mastitis animals and other diseases? Even for losses from the wolf, they are not compensated unless he eats ten lambs or more. What Velopoulos told you is no joke. It's serious. I'm coming to Mr. Kikilia. Law 3863/2010 is the law on heavy and unhealthy for nurses. Those who were hired after 2010 have these benefits of heavy and unhealthy. Those who were hired before 2010 do not get heavy and unhealthy. I mean, the horsemen and the non-seasoners. Clients and patrons in the care system? How will they please work? I come to the issue of EKAB. As a Greek Solution, in October 2019, Minister, we told you that in the ambulances that were piloting this program, the EKA rescuer has insurance cover and costume allowance, personalised to the equipment, but the driver from the health center that is manning the ambulance and he is also in the composition he does not take out of the home and is not covered for insurance, nor is he or his family. Again, both of them, i.e. the children of a lower God, etc. But otherwise, the events will go together. So why would one be insured, who also takes a thirty-mile radius off the ground, and the other not take them? But together they go for the incidents, for the crossroads. I've heard Mr. Kontozamanis in an interview on November 23rd saying that nurses will get a Christmas present. This left the Undersecretary to understand. The next day, Mr. Gerapetritis leaves it open and he leaves it open. Gentlemen, have you given fruitfruits hopes to the nurses that they'll get a Christmas present and have them only with applause, just with emotion? It can't be done. If you love them, you give them the Christmas present, not just with greeting cards. Because you have cultivated that hope as a special allowance. And now you're making it a garrison. With a "bravo" we can't do it. Give them a Christmas present because they're in the front line at the public hospitals. I hear, however, that from private centres, like in Serres, people were taken from private clinics, two specific, not more. Are these going to get an extra allowance, the doctors, the pathologists, the intensive scientists, the anestheticists who have come from private clinics? I don't know. I'm asking you. So why not take the Greek nurses and doctors who give their daily fight there? It's a big deal. You say unemployment benefit for fifty alcohols. I'm asking: Someone who worked last year in a tourist accommodation on the island and didn't open at all and has not even a sign and has lost all year long what is going to happen? Doesn't he get anything? Let's go a little bit to regional channels. Because years we've been talking about regional channels. You're subsidising unemployment. What are you telling him? You say to him: "Sit down four hours at your house, don't work." But the channel doesn't have any staff to make a program. If he doesn't get a news report and a news show, he'll come over the Broadcast and impose fines on him. What are you doing? You are subsidising the job: four hours by the employer, four hours by the state. Where to find the Cameramen? Where'd he find the reporters? Where's the staff coming from? In any case, because there is talk of 'DIGEA', the channels pay little money to five private channels in Greece 'DIGEA'. Crazy money! The two channels of Serres, which are in eastern Macedonia - paradoxical - in order to be able to cope, pay 3,500 euros a month, that is, they want more than fifteen, twenty ads to cover only 'DIGEA'. And I ask: is that what ERT is going on? Why not have the right to enter another provider? I now come to copyright because Mrs. Anagnastopoulou has caused me. As a Greek Solution, we will uncover this - be sure - to inform artists, actors, performers, singers who took the money of GDPI and the Copyright Bodies. Only the President of this independent authority - Velopoulos was calling for how many management principles we have - his salary monthly is 4,000 euros. So why does the Ministry of Culture not exercise supervisory control? And when SYRIZA and he came, he did not exercise control over the twenty more agencies. Because artists, actors, all these people of copyright have money, but they don't know what has happened. We'll see about that. We'll bring evidence to testify. Let's go to the issue of local government bodies. Give me the beer tax. Give the VAT withheld to the local government agencies. Do you remember the final state you voted for? You lowered the role of the municipal council. You have given the Economic Commission the power to decide whether a matter of major importance, like traffic, is to come. We as a Greek Solution were the first to support you and said that there could be no independence with the new law that SYRIZA had passed in Government, but you did not want to give self-government powers. They'll get power from the Athenian model. You have a question with our own party, which is the only regional party. So is the second degree. Why should here the heresy and decentralized? Everything that doesn't pass through the heresy, like spatial planning, get a signature from decentralized? Now did you remember against the OTAs and call for debts to be regulated to the "Civil Church"? We want a mayor - Captain, not a mayor - a rower. But what can we do? And mayors...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u477	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u478	I shall conclude, Madam President. There are too many issues. I would like to say quickly that in the "household finance" programme, anyone who makes an application has entered and closes - if possible! - while everyone should have had the right to apply and to enter "Structure at Home" and then judge on the basis of the income criteria who is entitled to it. See the EGE's mandate and directive how to burial dead by COVID. Because your mentors don't even know how to use the female. Say "Korrovirus" or say it properly. The ones who write you the bills to speak Greek as well. We're full of Anglo-Saxon words. It says specifically that there may be a coffin - it's a bad conversation! - in terms. They can't make funerals for loved ones. In conclusion, Madam President, I should like to remind you - because I have heard Mr Tsipras say that democracy does not quarantine - where were all the heads of the parties, when as a Greek Solution we tabled a question on the Banking Code, when the judges themselves - to know the people themselves - are instructing the former judges to support the banks rather than the world? Mr. Tsipras knew. Mrs. Gennimata knew. Everyone's impressed. The JRC and the Front of Radical Disobedience. Where were you all? And Mitsotakis wasn't placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u479	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u480	Is that democracy? The Greek Solution uncovered it. And we'll keep going. And we are retiring because that is not Parliament, gentlemen. You realise that there must be time, dialogue and committees, as appropriate. Thank you. I wish you good holidays!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u481	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mrs. Apajidis has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u482	Thank you, Madam President. If nothing else, we are debating and voting again today, in the form of urgency, on the draft law of the Ministry of Health, with last minute amendments. We know them, it has happened many times before in this Parliament and as long as we, as Mera25, have seen it here. It seems to be the Ministry of Health, for it is, in fact, a multiplier of sixty articles, with provisions concerning sixteen Ministries. It is a multi-brand plan to which Members have access in the morning 18 December, with the first and only joint meeting of the Economic and Social Affairs Committees at noon at 15:00 p.m. on Friday and the vote on the bill to become a state law, taking place today, Monday 21 December. Obviously most of the articles in the draft law do not have the form of urgency, which is a mockery of the parliamentary procedure. But what is envisaged is urgent has made such choices, obsessions and frustrations of the government. The procedure followed reveals both the bad practice of legislating the Government and the regime gradually formed by the Government, a state of arbitraryness, neutralisation of the function and importance of Parliament, and ultimately a regime of undermining the promises made by the Government itself to its audience, promises of respect for the institutions, of service, of seriousness and of excellence. We remind you. The hundreds of pages of a three-digit number of each possible Ministry's provisions under the urgency procedure naturally reminds us of the most important Memorandum Procedures. Of course, in this case it is not a memory of the past, but a picture of the future. The government is well aware that, through the peculiarity of its failure to manage the pandemic, the memorial legislative and externally imposed austerity will come back further and demand urgent legislative pots for the size of telephone directories. The government predestinates us and prepares us and does not hide it. With Article 72 we have an extension of the abolition of the Sunday holiday - listen to me! - A timeless goal of the troika. At the same time as we have shops closed, the government uses pandemic as an alibi to extend Sunday's introduction as a working day. In Article 83 we have the postponement of the minimum wage increase. Any increase is expected to be made from August of next year. It's the second consecutive deferral. With the Act of Legislative content in May, the minimum wage was raised for 2021 and we now have the postponement for the second half of the year ahead. In Article 85 we have the extension of the reduction of the Christmas gift for 2020 to the Easter gift and to the licence allowance of 2021 and so on. At the same time in November we saw almost a hundred thousand young unemployed. The registered unemployed in OAS in November exceeded one million and fifty thousand. However, we could accept as a matter of urgency a process of creating a mass free test network whose central points with a change of use will be converted into vaccination centres. The government, however, not only stubbornly denies such a choice, but presents us with provisions for three-month extensions of contracts for 31 March 2021. About a week ago, in the budget debate, we pointed out that the transfers provided for by the regular budget to the EEAS were reduced by EUR 308 million from the corresponding budget for 2020. That seems to be the government's welfare of public health, not of time extensions, but of reducing the budget by hundreds of millions. Unfortunately, institutional incontinence is not exhausted in the above, but it extends to the extremely misleading titles of the articles. For example, Article 2 bears the title ‘Energy free COVID -19 Coronary Test’. The content is inconsistent with the title, which is a consistent request from Mera25: the conduct of mass free coronary tests. Instead, the article regulates issues relating to the registration and processing of personal data, with the sole reference to conducting a free test that the EGE will continue to determine every day the number of persons to be controlled. The same mismatch or even contrast between title and content is the case in a number of other articles. No intakes are baptized "new intakes", presenting the same numbers twice. Public transport is presented as enhancers, without any reinforcement. The same is true of the people of culture. The Government closes in 2020 with an indication of consistency and an indirect promise. An indication of consistency is the continued ridicule of the institutions with an urgent bill of any possible ministry, tabled on Friday to be voted on Monday, and its indirect promise is that it will continue exactly this way for 2021. No provision for the future, no lessons from the past. This phrase describes the unrepentant attitude, ideological priorities and obsessions of the government for the time being. Thank you very much. Merry Christmas to all our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u483	Thank you too, my colleague. Mr Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, who wants to make a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u484	Thank you very much. As a JRC parliamentary group, we denounce unacceptable governmental behaviour. You are accountable for this position, because with the last two amendments you are dealing with very serious issues, which have not emerged suddenly and not at the last minute. So there are very serious suspicions about this option. The JRC will not participate in the debate on these two amendments nor in the voting process. In other words, in these two amendments, the JRC will abstain from voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u485	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u486	Thank you, Madam President. And we will abstain from the vote, leaving out as a sign of our protest about the urgency of the bill and all the other reasons we have mentioned throughout the whole process. We now have the urgent procedure, the last-minute amendments, which do not even give us the right to study what you are bringing to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u487	I, too, thank Mrs Athanasios, the special employer of the Greek Solution. I am obliged, ladies and gentlemen, to ask you about the interruption. I'm guessing, since you're not part of it, it's not going to be a break. We continue with the rapporteurs' second versions. We are starting with Mrs Fotini Bakadima, who has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u488	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is that, unfortunately, the dreadful practice of legislating at the last minute is still continuing on such an important issue. No matter how procedural you think it is, it's not. We did not have time to see the whole amendment, of course, but the first articles still raise questions, which we would like to ask. We don't have time, we'll do it in second year. As I said in the morning, the multi-project we are debating today is really a last-minute broom - which institutionalises a large number of extensions, although unfortunately we all know that problems are not solved either by extensions or by surface management. For example, from March to March we are talking about debt haircuts, the only solution that the pandemic will cause. You continue to be deaf, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. And it is also communication that your management at work is, when a huge number of workers are suspended or underworked and striving every day to survive in the context of the full working elasticity that you have legislated for all these eighteen months and have been totally overshadowed. Today you are concerned about caring and bringing an urgent bill to support the workers in legislation. But all you do is extend the list of workers who will work on Sundays and holidays, adding these workers to pharmacies, while at the same time switching to the dolls in July 2021, the procedures for setting the new minimum wage and wage, which means that until then the people who receive it will not get any increase. And another thing that has also caused us sorrow and surprise is the fact that in several hospitals in our country - "ATTICN", "LAICO", the University of Larissa" are indicative of some of them - the masks given to health care in the last few days are labelled above as "non-medical". And before you say, Minister, that I'm lying, postings have done the sanitaries themselves on social media and announcements and mention it. You can see them. Unfortunately, with clipping and communication "bumps" you are trying to meet needs that are fixed and should be covered. Even in the amendment you have brought before you in the second article, you say that vaccination centres will be provided with a transfer of personnel. You have had all these months to prepare yourself without unfortunately doing anything. Unfortunately, you are leaving out of the debate - I am ending, Madam President - the minimum wage in the same piece of legislation, with which you are bringing more easily to penalise criminal tax evasion offences and a framework of support for shipowners. Your right to choose to support oligarchy. Our obligation to be the voice, the support of all our fellow citizens, especially the weaker ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u489	Thank you too, my colleague. Mr Katsotis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u490	Thank you, Madam President. We have said a lot in our prototype in relation to the bill and the arrangements of the various ministries, sixteen in number. The legislative improvement made by the government in Article 136 is completely changing the contents. We would vote on this article. It now refers only to the period of COVID, while the original predicted debts up to 31-12-2020 or which will be confirmed up to 28-2-2021. Now it refers to debts that will be created from 15-2-2020 to 28-2-2021. It therefore abolishes the exemption from surcharges, late payment interest, which was provided for in the original Article, from 60% to 100%, depending on the instalments. This shows that the government here has different views, approaches. In any case, Theodorikos was "in the center". As far as the ministerial amendments are concerned, we shall vote on Amendment No 679/97. We note that the drafting of the OGA is under 400 euros. Many of us ask: Can anyone live at EUR 360 a month? There are great delays in their payment, and that is the problem, which the amendment does not solve. The amendment concerns certain cases of insured persons who paid contributions and should not be insured in the OGA, such as the heterogeneous farmers. The money that has been paid normally had to be repaid. If you do not return the money, you are entitled to a pension, since the necessary conditions, age, contributions, etc. are met. For Amendment No 705/122, on the continuation of existing livestock establishments, the extensions given every minute do not solve the problem of the authorisation of the stack facilities. The existing institutional framework entails an excessive burden on bio-patient farmers who want to obtain a legal stable. That is why there were few producers who managed to get permission. It is characteristic that, on the basis of the complaints made by the Attica Fodder Association, from the two and twenty-five applications submitted by farmers over the last seven years have only been licensed for thirty-five years. Basically, legislation is throwing people out of production. We must change the regime and ensure that the State and its services are responsible for providing appropriate conditions, study, suitable areas so that farmers can obtain a legal stable without a financial burden. Otherwise, the regime of resignations will not be finished. Of course, we will vote for the extension. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say that the government seeks with these practices to legislate on claims from business groups, to shield the barbarity of the educational system, and that is why these urgent procedures, 'to the nuts', as the people say. Do you think the working class will remain inactive, inactive or much more will it support or tolerate modern slavery, put its health on the scale of costs and benefits? Do you think it will tolerate the deterioration of the terms of work pay, that it will be tolerated to return a hundred and fifty years back, to work sunny with a dish of food? You're deeply sleepy if you think you're done with class struggle, that you can abolish all right to blood watered, such as Sunday holidays, collective contracts, lower wages, Christmas and Easter gifts. They pay for years contributions, and they stay without a decent pension. This will be the insurance that will evolve. You're deeply naughty if you think that authoritarianism, repression, employers' and state terrorism will stop the unequal struggle for work and capital. No luck will have the effort you're making to control the workers' organizations. Others tried and ate their faces. Employees will put aside any such effort of your own, of their employment and of their people in the workplace. They have a criterion and they will isolate those who attempt it. They will protect their statutes, which they themselves decide and form, they will protect the living democratic function, without any tolerance of intervention you seek under Article 91. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u491	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Mulkiotis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u492	Thank you, Madam President. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the page in. 511a]] They have today provided ministers who have proposed various provisions for the draft legislation on amendments, because it was only a bill of amendment. I will specifically refer to the Minister of Labour, who came, recited what he denounced and renounced. He did not refer to any of the issues that the Change Movement brought to the House for discussion. He gave no answer to what we referred to. That is how the government - because it is not only the Minister - deals with the legislative procedure. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Of course, we conclude from the attitude and attitude of the Minister for Labour that he agrees in silence with all our proposals. Why? Because it actually adopts everything that has been practically done for nineteen months, we have literally mentioned it in relation to outstanding pensions. And we're not talking about something simple when we say unfinished pensions. We're talking about three hundred and sixty thousand unfinished pensions. We are also talking, Mr President, about the e-Government of farmers, where there are pensioners without pension from the year 2016. The whole of Greece in relation to farmers and the ECA of farmers boils. What's the ministry doing? He's deaf. What's the ministry doing? He's turning his back. As much as is happening about "ATLANTOS" and again "ATLANTOS", the data are specific. There are retired farmers without a pension. The government does not care about the attitude it has towards these people and the situation it has created. If we had adopted our ever-repeated proposal on how to deal with pension outstandings, Mr President, you can be sure that the majority of applications would have been settled, all pensions would have been awarded. And what is the government doing today? It is retrospectively adopted and after nineteen months the proposals of the Change Movement. The Government must see, Mr President, the question of extending contracts of whatever kind, and I am referring to the OAS, for the subsidiary, for sufficient time in relation to how this issue is going, in order, on the one hand, to serve the pressing needs due to the pandemic and, on the other hand, to initiate and complete the necessary evaluation procedures under the supervision of the OSCE, for the uninterrupted integration of these people - I am referring to those employed by OSCE and the subsidiary - on the permanent human potential of the National Health System. Specific amendments were tabled, Mr President, today by the Change Movement. Did he hear any side of this House, some wing, if these amendments were answered? None! No response to the amendments tabled by the Change Movement. That is the attitude - I cannot express it any differently - of the government towards a political party, to those who have asked for issues to come to Parliament and to be debated in the form of amendments in order to be satisfied or not to be satisfied! Silence! The government turns its back on institutions, on citizens, on workers, on pensioners, on unemployed. Why is that, Mr President? Why such a deterioration in the legislative process? Why not even give a fundamental answer, to listen to a 'no, we do not accept the amendment'? But the Minister turns his back and leaves the House and he doesn't care about anything else. Mr President, I repeat that no one perfect and no one infallible. What we have to look at is the big picture. And the great picture of the governance of the New Democracy shows, unfortunately, that the country is leading to a future of development and progress, not as the Prime Minister declared. As much as the media presents another picture, which is both fictitious and pragmatic, the government must understand and now that Greece needs a structured progressive policy, in order to get into the orbit of a strong social state, from which many are excluded at the expense of the few and fair and sustainable development. Otherwise - and I conclude - the informal policies of the Mitsotakis Government will lead the country and society to dangerous paths. We already see what is happening today. We must not take advantage of situations that are painful for the Greek people and create data and other procedures. The future historian and the theorist of public law, Mr President, will record these, will record them, the great contradiction of the state of staff and a certain situation, which proves to the instigators of the state of service and what the House has voted on, as it has voted. So the Movement of Change, and I conclude, PASOK is here, to highlight the problems, to highlight them, to exert a structural opposition and to give the vision that the country needs, the vision of new change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u493	Thanks to my colleague. Mr Papadopoulos has the floor as SYRIZA's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u494	Of course, there has been hard criticism of all the government's responsibilities, of the extent of the tragedy, of the social desperation of the padlocks, of the way in which you intervene, of making an equation of college degrees with those of universities, of how you raise issues of democracy, transparency, accountability and consultation. And it seemed clear in the urgent procedure in our debate that any concept of a genuine democratic debate on issues which were unthinkably serious, and also in the face of the pandemic, has been circumvented, but also for all the other tasks that we have in this long period from now on, in order to make use of the next time for all the issues. Of course, what is most disturbing to you is that, in addition to the documented hard criticism, we have been doing from the beginning of the pandemic and so far a presentation of alternatives that disturb you: from the "Made upright" to the proposal made by Alexis Tsipras, to manage the issues of the pandemic with understanding, so that, in all matters relating to our interventions, we can find solutions to the issue of the immunity of the National Health System and even to the issues of vaccination. And here we are waiting at the same time as what you are doing and some other responsible answers. Firstly, because, Mr Secretary of State for Health, you have ignored the Prime Minister's intervention in the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, which promised four thousand permanent recruitments. Why? Why are you ignoring the proposal that we made for fifteen thousand permanent recruitments to enable all those who are subsidiary to be covered, all those who are under a regime which could be regulated like the OAS, the contractors? I would also like to highlight your own approach, for which we are waiting for responsible answers. If, for the staff of the ICM, for ICM doctors, you can overcome the constitutional arrangements for permanentisation, why can you not extend this to all subsidiary staff, all subsidiary doctors, all who work as subsidiary staff and, at the same time, to those of the OAED, for which the Communist Party has tabled a proposal for regulation? And if there's a constitutional way, then why not? You must respond, however, and what else you are doing in parallel with the vaccinations, so that we can use IFET, as a matter of urgency, to introduce valuable, expensive medicines, such as monoclonal antibody preparations, along with the actions you have to take with other countries, in order to negotiate a European price and import them, as we know that the cost is lower than the social benefit many times. A lot of people could be saved. Why are you ignoring the proposal made by the 'Papanikolaou' haematological clinic for using the T-lymphocytes and we still have no government response that such clinical studies, such research programmes and others are adopted so that domestic research can be financed directly? Why don't you do all that could lead to a way of exploiting primary health care and the vaccinations of local health units, which have the potential to prevent and also to record the electronic file, the recording of the chronicly ill, so that clear instructions can be given? Why didn't you strengthen the health centers and the sixty-one you put in so that they could fully carry out their duties? And on the issues we have raised so far, we would also expect some answers from those who say 'fighters', you applaud them. And you're coming today and we've been waiting for urgent procedures for you to have a Christmas present with a one-month salary for all workers fighters in the National Health System. So, in practice, how do you recognize their social offer? What are you doing to motivate, so that we can have the human potential we need and the missing skills from hospitals, i.e. anesthesiologists, intensifiers and so on?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u495	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u496	On these issues, there could actually be a possibility of cooperation that can be achieved. And to solve some of the doubts that have been raised here about intentions. Look at you, election right now? Haven't we said for too long that it would be unrecognised in the midst of a pandemic for elections to take place? But, look, alliances and partnerships are being built on the major issues that are close to parliamentary activity and today's activity. This is where they build.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u497	But close it, Mr. Papadopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u498	I'm hanging up. We also tabled six amendments. We see only for one thing, which concerns the work prospects of the OAU contractors - we do not know exactly what you are doing for the others - that it is just extending to Article 77 for the OAED. On the other issues, which are very serious, you have not answered. To conclude - in this painful process that you have caused in this way - we think that the country's perspective in the next period could have another turn if you wanted it. And we made the proposal for a new National Health System - keep this a little - and for the conversion of Greece into a country - model in united Europe, for the possibility of equal and free treatment of all, both citizens and residents and refugees and visitors of the country, with quality services. We also have this possibility with the European programmes and with the funding that we could do. We continue to be on the road to an alternative progressive solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u499	And we are completing the course of the secondary course of the rapporteurs and special speakers with the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Athanasios Ploris.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u500	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all from all the legislative improvements that have been made, we have to make it clear that two demands which were made both by the opposition and by the members of the colloquium on the issue of ERT workers that those who are for a certain period of time, and in particular the question of Article 7, have been heard and passed on to the EPCA and OAED. All the articles that have come to the bill, apart from urgent arrangements, are regulations which I consider to be self-evident. And I am not referring specifically to the Ministry of Health, which has been very urgent, with an extension of time basically. And all the other articles had either urgency or certainly a positive sign, such as, for example, it was previously said about the disability rate of 80% for our blind fellow citizens, but also a series of other arrangements. We are now coming to the part that dealt with the debate today. The government's biggest criticism was on two levels. First of all, why did he bring the draft law as an emergency? It seems that it was right to come as an emergency, because you would be shouting if a number of arrangements were to come as amendments now. That's what we told you on Friday in committee. It could have been only the fifty articles of the Ministry of Health and all the others could have come to you as amendments, as was the usual at the end of the year. You said 'we do not like it for urgent'. You are now saying that you do not like amendments coming. So let's go to the amendments. I am going to be the one that, in my view, you are not going to vote on. I am referring to the Health Ministry's amendment, because for all the other little - you have been very placed. The Minister for Health could have had just one provision and referred it all to a ministerial decision. He has that possibility. You could have said that you would act as a legislative act. Ladies and gentlemen, the phenomenon of coronary and pandemic was a dynamic situation. We have here both people from the Ministry of Health who took all this burden, but also the Ministry of Finance. This is a constant battle. If you think it's easy within seven months, the five hundred seventy IF beds to become over a thousand three hundred IF beds, staff increasing by 10% last year and increasing expenditure by 25%, I tell you it's not that easy. If you think it is easy to get into the National Health System donations of permanent - not temporary - IM beds, I tell you it's not that easy. And we arrive at the end of the year and in a problematic National Health System we come here and say that all our fellow citizens received the treatment that they needed. We regret and hurt every fellow citizen of ours who is ill, for every fellow citizen who is escaping or losing his life, but Greece - with the problems that exist - so far provides all citizens with the treatment they want. You were talking about the lockdown. You were here saying that, because we're supposedly not having the ITH beds that Germany has, we've had to go to lockdown. And it turns out that what we've been telling you is true: no matter how many beds you've got, people shouldn't reach the IF beds, because, by reaching the IF beds, unfortunately some of them will lose their lives. With tough measures and the strengthening of the National Health System, with the problems that exist, we are dealing with this. And I come to the amendment. In fact, at seven o'clock, as was the case with other amendments. And the Minister himself said that, if there was a procedure, we could go tomorrow. It is not pleasant for the Members of Parliament, nor for the Co-Population and Communism to come to the end of an amendment. In two and a half hours' time, however, which has been tabled - in fact, let me say one point at which you disagree. I'll accept that you don't have the time you wanted to see it all. But you may not have seen her at all. And say, what are you bringing here, Minister? You're bringing us free portable IF beds. We don't want them. You bring us the leave for the absence of the worker who goes to do COVID control, to be able to get three hours off his job and get paid, compulsory permission to go run tests. You don't want it. A number of arrangements for vaccinations, which are sure to 100% for you to agree. Indeed, I wish it could have been this morning. So, why wouldn't the Minister want it to be in the morning? But are we going to stay on this when we came here and said we should sit and wait for a couple of hours and see if anything needs to be done, or should we go to the minister's authorisation and ministerial decision? That is why, with the objections you said, we should leave the guys behind in a positive bill. Indeed, it is not pleasant for the Members. We say that. This bill tried to deal with it, because most of the arrangements did not come with amendments, as it was at the end of the year. But we're actually going. I am not telling you about the other amendments. It's a position. As far as this amendment is concerned, it is certain that by reading it you will agree to 100%. It must be voted on by Parliament and you must review your position, which is either abstention or a absence, because it is positive arrangements. Unless in the three hours, in the two and a half hours that have been deposited, come and say that 'here is a problem'. Mr President, we believe that, in the context of the possibilities, it has been possible to have a bill at the end of the year which will enable us to resolve a number of urgent issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u501	The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement Mr Kegeroglu asked for a statement. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u502	Thank you very much, Mr President. The inertia and reassurance of the government has indeed led to the fact that many of the arrangements are urgent and at the last minute. Most of the issues, both of the bill and of the amendments that came at the last minute, existed a month ago and two months ago. The government chooses this way not because the facts arise, but why it is not prepared, does not have planning and walks without seeing what it does. They refused, whether the Minister or the majority, to give a reasonable time and tomorrow very calmly to discuss the two additional bills tabled. One bill relates to media, which was in consultation, as the Minister said, as a separate bill, came as an amendment. The other bill concerns the serious issue of vaccination, which the Minister is undermining in this process. He is mistaken and passes it in the shower, without the appropriate treatment and proper consideration by the government and by the political forces. That is unacceptable. We are saying that we will not be involved in Parliament's devaluation, because it is not just a formal matter of keeping the Rules of Procedure and ending the hours that we were going to discuss, but it is essential that our disagreement with the deterioration of Parliament is made. That is why we are not taking part in the vote. We have placed ourselves politically with what articles we agree with and what we disagree with. So our position is well known. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u503	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u504	Here, Mr Skourletis, you have the floor for a minute, for a statement, not a position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u505	Mr President, in a number of very tight procedures, with a number of amendments - some of which have been justified - we have tabled in particular our view, which we consider necessary for operational reasons to be voted on, with which we disagree, on which we apply for a roll-call vote. It is precisely because we do not adopt the Government's view of working on pandemic either to underestimate Parliament or to go through other issues, we will not be taking part in the vote on these last two amendments. We will be present, we will not keep the parliamentary procedure going. Be sure to find us in front of you and in and out of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u506	As far as I understand it, you will not be taking part in the last two votes. You're not leaving.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u507	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u508	Mr President, I too request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u509	Mrs Bakadima has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u510	I need less than a minute, Mr President. Unfortunately, it is multiplier when we see you destroying the good law, which you yourself have legislated and brought with the ultimate state. We have been discussing a comprehensive bill since this morning. At the same time, amendments have been tabled - bills as well. The issue of vaccination, I told you before, is important, is a common fight we must give. You are torpedoing it and undermining it in the way you bring it, as an amendment. We, as a PARTA25, will abstain from voting on the last two amendments, because we cannot consent. We should all fight together to convince the citizens and win the bet. The behaviour and way of legislating the New Democracy is not helping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u511	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned at the outset, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: 'Consolidations on the protection of public health against the consequences of the COVID pandemic -19, strengthening public transport, speeding up the award of pensions, regulating debts to local government agencies and other urgent provisions'. We are entering the vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law, and they will be voted on separately. An application for a roll-call vote by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u512	I will not read out the list of signatories to the roll-call because, given the special circumstances, we consider that there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u513	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote on Articles 72 and 91 of the draft law. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u514	I would like to inform you that letters and fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau, pursuant to Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, to which they give their vote. These votes will be tabled for the Minutes and will be taken into account in the count which will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u515	Once you have finished, please close the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u516	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce the result of a roll-call vote on Articles 72 and 91. Article 72 has passed 268 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 110 Members. No one voted. Article 72 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 91 was adopted by 268 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 110 Members. No one voted. Article 91 was therefore accepted by a majority. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u517	Following the conclusion of the electronic roll-call vote on Articles 72 and 91, we are voting in principle on the remaining articles, amendments and the entire bill. The rapporteurs and the special speakers are requested to submit to the Bureau documents with their votes in order to include and register the official minutes of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u518	Consequently, following the conclusion of the vote, the draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Consolidations on the protection of public health against the effects of the COVID pandemic -19, strengthening public transport, speeding up the award of pensions, regulating debts to local government and other urgent provisions’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the articles and the whole of it, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u519	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u520	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-21-S1-commons.u521	With the consent of this House at 22.40 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 22 December 2020 at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
