ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that the topical and urgent questions to be debated today are as follows: The 113/2-11-2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens Department of Athens of Meraz25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The Minister's exotic effort to influence the decision of the Council of State on the ancients at Venizelos Station", which will be answered by the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mrs Styliani Mendoni. The question by No. 106/30-10-2020 of the new Republic's MP, Anna Efthymiou, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The state of OSTH", which will be answered by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Konstantinos Karamanlis. The question under number 112-11-20 is a timely question by the Member of the Boeotian Movement of Change Mr. George Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Scaramaga Naval Agronomy", which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mr. Panagiotis Tsakloglou. The 118/2-11-2020 topical question by MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Union treatment of beneficiaries of the National Response", which will also be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. The question under number 29/5-10-20 by SYRIZA MP Laconia - Progressive Alliance Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The health system is a new one to deal with Coronovirus cases in Laconia", which will be answered by the State Secretary of Health Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. The question by No 100/30-10-2020 of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Exclusive responsibility of the Government of New Democracy for the deficit of the Special Account for the RES”, which will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. The question by number 102/30-10-2020 of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The Volos is sick of air pollution", which will also be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. The Question No 104/30-10-2020 by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafylides to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Protecting health and safety and safeguarding jobs in private enterprises with cases of coronary diseases", will not be discussed due to a blockade by the MP. The following questions are not discussed in consultation: The 116/2-11-2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Working in the Shipyards of Scaramaga, the H/B shipbuilding programme. 214 and maintenance of vessels P/N.’ The question by number 98/26-10-2020 of the Member of the Ilias Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Insecurity and uncertainty for the Scaramaga Naval workers". The question by number 101/30-10-2020 from MP B2' Western Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nandias) Giannakopoulou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Main question the concern of the workers of the Scaramaga Shipyards". The Question No 107/30-10-2020 by the Vice-President of Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Scientific attraction to the ESS for the reversal of Brain Drain". The question by No 99/26-10-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Nikolaos Papastastasis, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "For the problem of housing of the officials of the Santorini Airport of the Santorini airport." Mr Andreas Loverdos, Member of the Commission. — (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. The first question will be discussed under number 106/30-10-2020 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Anna Efthyriou, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The state of OSH". The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis. Mrs. Evriou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u2	Minister, since the beginning of the pandemic, as a Member of Parliament, in my parliamentary duties, I have taken various initiatives at health, hospital visits, and at the level of education, with my proposals and interventions, as well as with constant contact and conferences with productive bodies. At the same time as I am a municipal councillor in the Municipality of Thessaloniki, I have a strong interacting relationship with society. In this context, the messages I have received from the society of Thessaloniki are that it raises the issue of public transport, namely the issue of OSH. That is why I tabled this question to you. In particular, the current Government of New Democracy has received from the SYRIZA Government an OSH, whose capacity was very low and could not meet, at least, the mass transport needs of the Thessalonians. Following the publication and implementation of Law 4482/2017, under which OSTH was repurchased and liquidated and a new public body, OSH, was set up, and a new executive of the transport project, PSYTH, the new administration of the OSH, with President Stelios Pappa, on the government of SYRIZA, received a fleet of buses, in the dynamics of which were four hundred and twenty-two buses in circulation a day. However, the then OSH administration, in the government of SYRIZA, handed over to Thessalonians a fleet of buses with progressively reduced dynamics, which arrived in July 2019 to number just two hundred sixty-one buses a day, according to a multitude of publications. This resulted in the unbelievable suffering of the Thessalonians during their internal movements to the Regional Unity of Thessaloniki. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, with the election of the Government of New Democracy and with the aim, initially, of addressing this problem, and then reducing the need to reduce the concentration in public transport due to the koruna pandemic, took important initiatives in cooperation with OSH and other supervised bodies. Among these initiatives were the conclusion of a contract with the CBEL, as well as the assignment of twenty-five lines to OSH, but also the conclusion of a contract for the lease of an eighty used buses, the first fifty four buses of which were included in the OSH fleet. In view of the above, you ask, Minister, what future plans are you to strengthen the OSTH and facilitate citizens in their movements and what time horizon?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Happiness, with your question you give me the opportunity to clarify a number of issues concerning OSH. Your question is really timely because, unfortunately, all this time, unfortunately, things have been heard by the Qualified Opposition, which have nothing to do with reality. And because we've still been hearing monsters from SYRIZA for the last few days, I want to say that the political lie has its limits. From one point to the next, it begins to become ridiculous and dangerous, and I refer to the recent occurrence of a small accident on an OSH bus in the past few days. It is not possible for the Civic Opposition to jeopardise a single technical problem, which has been dealt with on the ground by the driver, to magnify and attempt to panic the passenger. So much has it hurt them, Mrs. Efthymou, that we joined forces with the Municipality of Thessaloniki? Instead of sitting with our hands crossed, we also received the donation of the Municipality of Thessaloniki with the fifty buses. We took these buses, we check them, in accordance with all the procedures provided for, and we gradually take them off the road. We never told the passenger public that these buses are new. We have said that these buses are second-hand, but much better than the buses that OSH currently has, which exceed 15 years. So we control this fact and, above all, we control, Mrs Efthyos, because the bus was found to a point which was not foreseen, and if it was not intended to be used. We will wait for the results of the audit and I am at your disposal to come back when we have these results. So let me first of all comment briefly on what we have received, where we are and where we are going. In the last fifteen months, we have been called upon to manage, as you mentioned, a huge crisis. No resident in Thessaloniki disputes this. The evidence speaks for themselves. What do these evidences say? First, until August 2019, there were two hundred thirty-five buses on the streets of Thessaloniki. What does that mean, practically? That only 40% of the transport project was carried out. Secondly, we found an outdated rolling stock, an outdated bus fleet, with an average age of 15 and 60% of the vehicles were over eighteen years old. What did the OSTH administration then, appointed by SYRIZA, do? They extended by Article 34 of Law 4530 the permitted time for bus traffic from the twenty to the twenty-three years. Since they hadn't predicted to renew the fleet, what did they do? They increased fleet age limits, a decision that had adverse consequences for the transport project. I am also referring to - and I am closing down, Madam President, to have time in my dentistry to tell you what we are going to do - on something that Mr Tsipras, the Head of SYRIZA at the press conference on Friday, has repeated. I am referring to what he said, which once again shows that falsehood has no limits on the alleged abolition by the Government of New Democracy of the tender for the supply of seven hundred fifty buses. This is the ultimate definition of make news! SYRIZA once again, unfortunately, proves that the truth is being thrown away. Because the truth is that no government and no Minister repealed this competition, but it was the competent Independent Judicial Review Authority that annulled the tender on 2 August. I will also present in the minutes the decision of the Independent Authority. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis submits the abovementioned document for the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] Now, because he annulled him is a conversation, which is not at the moment, but in fact there were excessive technical specifications. There was a conflict between this competition and the principles of free competition and it raised many questions about the financing of the declaration. Thirdly, despite the fact that the OSTH administration had received from the SYRIZA government - listen - 165,000 euros - we, Mrs Evthymou, found empty funds, debts everywhere, unpaid rents and even the public offices. The debts for taxes and VAT for the period 2017-2019 amounted to EUR 21,000. So this is SYRIZA's "good" work in OSTH. That's what SYRIZA did for two years 2017-2019. This is the result of statism, of the first stateisation that has taken place in Europe over the past twenty-five years. In my dentistry, I will come back and tell you what we have done in the last 15 months, Mrs Evriou, and what we intend to do in the future, so that there is a complete picture of the passenger audience of Thessaloniki, the second largest city in Greece, which at present does not have - we admit this - the transport that it deserves.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. My colleague, you have three minutes. However, I would ask you, under the Rules of Procedure, to speak up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u6	Mr Minister, I will raise three points in your prototype. The first issue concerns the very important clarification you made about the Thessalonians, that it was an extensive event, which took place on the bus from Leipzig and that everything is checked on the appropriate specifications, as well as that it will be investigated, because it was found in a place that was not foreseen. I think it is in the very right direction for the Thessalonians to know what has really happened so that the fear of the media is not sown daily. The second point I would like to focus on is the fact that there has been the extension of this convention to the sustainability and life of buses for another three years. Indeed, I am well aware - because I have also met with the administration of the OSH - that it was a practice and, unfortunately, it was going under the carpet. However, this practice could not go any further, because the Thessalonians lived this way: by extending the life of buses for another three years from the fleet, which really existed, in fact, not even half of them, Minister. That was a very difficult situation. It is important that at the moment the fleet is being strengthened by both the leasing contract and the CBELs, but also by buses from Leipzig. Thirdly, you have explained that there has really been no withdrawal of the tender, but that there has been no cancellation of the tender, for reasons which are specific and which are recorded. It's for knowledge, it's nothing secret. Let me stress one more thing by closing down. The situation you have to manage at the moment with OSTH is the many debts. In fact, there are debts that are unpaid by rents, which are currently borne by the owners and with multiple tax obligations, because they have been assured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u7	Me too, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. In my prototype, I think I have made it clear that we have received the situation. But what have we been doing for 15 months? Because I think that at the moment it makes no sense to say what we have received. I think your fellow citizens in Thessaloniki have had a full picture of the organization's dissolution in recent years. What have we done, as mentioned in your question? Firstly, we proceeded in cooperation with the CBELs for the peri-area of Thessaloniki. A total of thirty one lines and over 100% of the needs of a hundred and forty-five buses are awarded. The contract works effectively and the effort has really been embraced by the passenger audience of Thessaloniki. Secondly, we joined forces with the Municipality of Thessaloniki. I am given the opportunity to thank the Mayor of Thessaloniki for once again, so that we can obtain fifty buses from the Municipality of Leipzig in order to have them available to OSTH. I repeat that the first eleven buses have already been delivered, of which four are circulating in Thessaloniki. These buses come from the municipality of Leipzig. It's used, it's a decade, it's not new, but it's much better than buses that we currently have at our disposal in OSH. What else did we do? Thirdly, we proceeded to the rental contest - the so-called leasing - hundred and eighty buses. You will allow me to say, Mrs Evthymou, that it is something innovative for the Greek state's data, and that is exactly what we are doing here in Athens, so that we can get some buses now, which we need instantly. These buses in Thessaloniki are already on the streets. They serve what we call the "Metropolitan Center of Thessaloniki". It's sixty buses on the streets already. Fourthly, we also legislation with FTL at first instance with L.4722 in September to ensure the adequacy of the bus fleet by speeding up the procedures. Fifthly, we have taken care of the sustainable financing of urban transport. In addition to what I have told you, we have approved EUR 48 million financing for 2020, and we have made an additional EUR 55 million available for the rental of buses. Also, in the midst of a pandemic, we created a new line, the 32N, which unites the western districts of Thessaloniki with all the hospitals of the center, which was a constant request. In other words, hospitals "C. GENNAMENT’, ‘AGIOS DIMITRIO’, ‘ACHEA’ and ‘AWARDA’ without a transfer. So since I started my placement invoking evidence, I will come and tell you what the evidence we have today. We received 200 thirty-five buses. There are now four hundred buses available in Thessaloniki. We are talking about an increase of 70% in fifteen months. This is what the New Democracy Government has achieved and this situation has been received. Let me note what we are going to do from now on, the third step: it will be gradually - we are already starting this month - the great environmentally friendly bus competition for electric buses, which will be on the streets of Athens and Thessaloniki. These competitions, however, are major international competitions. They have a procedure of at least eighteen months. That is why, because of the pandemic, we have decided to join the CCEEs and to do the leasing, so that we can address this void that has been created. Thank you very much for your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make some announcements to this House. The Minister of Tourism, as well as the Minister of Economic Development and Investment, Foreign and Maritime Policy, submitted a draft law on 6 November 2020: "Following the Cooperation Protocol to the Tourism Cruise between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Tourism of the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Ministry of Energy, Trade, Industry and Tourism of the Republic of Cyprus". The Minister of Tourism, as well as the Minister of Finance, Foreign Affairs and Education and Religious Affairs submitted a draft law on 6 November 2020: ‘State the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Portuguese Republic on cooperation in the field of tourism’. The Minister of Tourism, the Minister of Finance, Foreign Affairs, Education and Religious Affairs, as well as the Deputy Minister of Development and Investment, submitted a draft law on 6 November 2020: "Strengthening the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Republic of Kazakhstan for cooperation in the field of tourism". The Minister for Development and Investment, the Minister for Economic Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Justice, Home Affairs, State, and the Deputy Minister for Finance, submitted a draft law on 6 November 2020: ‘Additional measures for the implementation of the Rules of Procedure of the European Union 2019/1150 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the promotion of fair treatment and transparency for business users of online brokering services, arrangements for the Interservice Market Control Unit, the Competition Committee, the functioning of the market and other provisions’. Then the fifth will be discussed under number 113/2-11-2020 in the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Union effort of the Minister to influence the decision of the Council of State on the ancients at Venizelos station?". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Culture and Sport, Mrs Styliani Mendoni. Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, I was really shocked to see the news that you visited the President of the Council of State two days before the appeal was brought against the secondment of antiquities. Indeed, the House wants to know what you said and what the purpose was. We ask ourselves: How is it possible, at the same time that a case is being avenged for you which is politically important, to visit the President of the Council of State? What did you want to do? Aren't you going to convince her about something? I do not mention it by chance, because then I was in plenary at the time of the trial. And I saw the Ministry try to invoke things, which are the least untrue. He tells the Ministry in its letter of 19 October 2020 to the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State that there was complete inertia to promote the construction studies of the plant, to justify that - quite rightly - there was no route for maintaining by country of antiquities, as it should be. The rapporteur for the Council of State Mr Vassiliadis himself comes in for five pages in Chapter IV of his document and describes in detail all the work that has been done during the period, which you call inert, in order to justify your decision and how one third of the budget for these studies has been spent. It mentions documentary and documentary documents on the studies that have been carried out, approved, paid and executed. But you keep going. In the letter of 26 October, you are contradicting the reasons for the annulment for the exclusion of two members of the contested CSCE meeting. You say, in fact, that these members had been removed, at the same time as the minutes of the CSCE, Minister, says that the President is putting the matter to the vote - except for the members, the majority refuses and the sitting is continuing properly. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally - I conclude, Madam President - the Legal Adviser of the Ministry said that he is not even on the agenda of the International ICOMOS Convention the resolution tabled by the Greek Department against Posting. And yet, as we see from the ICOMOS website, it's all over there. Please stop lying. We call on you to tell us what you have done to the Council of State two days ago, when you meet the President of the Council of State, this institutional action.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. MEP, for many months now you have been abducting the Ministry of Culture, leaving me with timely questions and written questions about the decision of March 2020 on the issue of distance and relocation of antiquities at Venizelos Station in Thessaloniki. You were in the courtroom when the appeals were discussed in the Council of State last Friday, and you know them very well. Are you coming here to the House and presenting your own views, taking quotes from the Ministry from the rapporteur of the Council of State, to what end? Do you want us to stand trial here? This is not the responsibility of the House. It belongs to the Council of State. So you are doing nothing but constantly trying to distort things, in order in fact to project yourself and the Greek society, but also in Parliament, that you are one of the few custodians of protecting antiquities and cultural heritage, while all others are liars and destroyers. So what you're doing is unethical. Let the Council of State take its decision - whatever this decision may be - and stop constantly creating such impressions. I've answered you on several occasions. You're not convinced. It is your right not to be convinced. It is your right to control the government. However, it is not your right, while a debate, a case is in the matter of health, to try even in Parliament to create impressions, invoking the essence of lies, about the very things that have been done. But we're not going to stand trial here. I repeat. Let's actually go now. You ask why I visited the President of the Council of State a week ago - not two days ago, it doesn't matter, I'm just saying it for your information - and what I discussed with her. In the Council of State, therefore, there is a tradition, at least eighty years, according to which the parties are visiting the judges and setting out their views on the cases, which are currently in the Council. Every day in the Council of State, then, there are dozens of parties who communicate with the judges, let alone in this case with absolute transparency I did normally - as should - in the Council of State. In absolute transparency - and I repeat - I visited the President and the President-in-Office in plenary. In any event, the President of the Council of State was required, in view of the principle of equality of the parties, to accept a representative of the Ministry of Culture, since he had previously accepted the lawyers of the applicants. It wasn't the originality of what happened. In any case, though, because you want to know what has been discussed, I tell you that we discussed the question of codification of cultural heritage legislation. You will, if necessary, be aware of the initiative taken by the Government to codify legislation, which is under way and which includes representatives of the Council of State. We talked to the President about the course of case law on the cultural heritage of archaeological legislation and I was informed of various decisions with which the administration is obliged to comply. Last issue - and this was, in fact, the end of the debate - was also the presence of third parties. It was the most serious risk problems that the Council of State has and not only, but the whole building block, which is a characterised monument, so it is protected by legislation, by Law 3028/2002. With your current question, therefore, you say that, with my move to visit the President of the Council of State - I stress it, as the applicants have done - I undermine the confidence of citizens and of science in judicial decisions, and also in the separation of powers. So I ask you: What exactly do you insinuate? That I influenced the President's judgment as to the outcome of the subway decision? What are you insinuating? That the President of the Council of State does not know the limits of its judicial character and institutional visits? Are you suggesting that we also do seminars of this kind of institutional behaviour to the President of the Council of State? You say that I did work out of the institution, while the other side, the lawyers visited the President. This, in your view, is an institutional process. What, then, are you insinuating? Whatever you have to say, say it right here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. Come on, Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, the institutional burden of lawyers exercising on the one hand an appeal and the representative of the Government, the Minister of Culture, is a little different. You know, you represent one of the powers, one of the constitutional pillars, as the President of the Council of State represents. Lawyers have a specific, very limited institutional role. So their own political displacement is not something that pushes another institution. That is why the two institutions are distinct. If you wanted to be informed, you could also send your lawyers as the rest of them sent. So, obviously, the shadow stays. One day after your meeting, the President of the Republic at the anniversary event that took place here over the seventy years after the signing of the European Convention on Human Rights states, among other things: "Political interventions in the choice and the work of judges do not only undermine the mandate of the judge or the right of citizens to effective judicial protection and fair trial. They symbolically erod democratic institutions and representation for citizens. The crisis of justice and its exposure to unfair political objectives are a problem." We therefore call on you to respect the spirit and the word of the President of the Republic, which comes from the Council of State. As far as we are concerned, there is a trial in the Council of State. But, obviously, as a Member, I have an obligation to check the institutional representative of the Government and of Greece in the cultural sphere, the political leader of the Ministry of Culture, as to whether it is true what is written in the legal notes, which is officially sent to the Council of State as a Ministry? Obviously! Obviously, I have an obligation to check whether there are uncertainties and inaccuracies, as they exist and I shall repeat very briefly. You spoke of inertia and lack of studies. You tried to show that there was no possible solution to maintain in situ, country by country, of antiquities. Not only was there a study, but it had been implemented in 1/3 and it would have been completed if you didn't stop it. These five million, anyway, of public money already spent on the project, what will happen, Mrs. Mendoni? For our exceptions, you say that they did not participate in the decision and that there was, in fact, a removal of the two people, for whom there was an exception. We have the decision of the C.E.D. which says that it was put to the vote, that the request for an exception was rejected and that they were regularly involved. You tell us that there is no ICOMOS proposal, that the resolution is not on the convention agenda. Indeed, entering the ICOMOS website we see it is. So obviously these lies are, and obviously, we ask you not to quote false evidence in any public document to any institution, service, in any way you perform your duties.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Seligman, you obviously have every right - that is your role - to control the government's representative, to control the government. Of course, you have that responsibility. You don't have the power to stand trial. The competence of the specific case, in respect of which the appeals have been lodged in respect of the Ministerial Decision of March 2020, lies with the Council of State. The process is under way and we are all obliged to wait for his decision and respect his decision. If all this is a lie, as you claim, it will prove. I trust in justice, I have complete confidence in justice, but to get one - the things. You said you were misguided because we are writing in our memorandum on non-existence between 2015 and 2019. The work that was done was therefore the well - founded and roofed, which fell above ancient times. So the well - founded roof also relates to the subject, whether antiquities are not extracted or extracted. Therefore, this was not a task that tends to resolve the non-occupational problem. It was a project, which, in any case, as things were, had to be done. One of the prisoners. Secondly, you say that there have been studies and others. So I repeat for once - whether you want to accept it or not - that the crisis will ultimately be the court for whether there was a study. I tell you that the study did not exist and that the so-called "studies" were unsubstantiated projects. Unsigned projects in a technical work on the substance make what you call'study' irresponsible. You're talking about ICOMOS. So I say to you that competence - because ICOMOS is being used, not Greek ICOMOS, but as an international organisation - belongs to the ICOMOS conference, which will take place next month in December. You are also referring to the exception that the members and others were present. Of course, the members finally voted in the final opinion of the Council, the Central Archaeological Council. That was not their point, it wasn't that they couldn't vote. Another was the question of which the application was made. Finally, to conclude, stop so much underestimating the President of the Council of State, that he was allegedly affected by something that I might have told her. Stop underestimating the counselors who are part of the plenary. Twenty-seven people are affected by a visit by the Minister of Culture to the President of the Council of State of a very limited duration and in which at least four topics were discussed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Minister. We are now going to the first with number 29/5-10-20 a question of the circle of petitions - questions by the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'The health system in Laconia'. The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister, thank you for your presence here today to discuss the timely question. However, what I want to note is that this is the second time that we are discussing health issues in Laconia, and the Minister has not shown the will to discuss together and to make commitments, without underestimating your role and your presence. However, primary health and in Laconia seems to be treating it slowly and late and imperfectly. I say this because, on the occasion of my visit and the question about the Vladiotis Health Centre, which is the Health Centre, which is at the heart of the large wave of incidents in Laconia, we have found that the situation there can at least be characterised as tragic. What we found is a great delay in receiving personal protective materials, a great lack of staff, with doctors doing parallel tasks, both at the Sparta Health Center and at the Vlachotis Health Centre and the Regional Medicines of the Eurota Municipality not working. At the same time, there were two structures, where they were housed in quarantine land workers, whether they were viral positive or were contacts, which the Health Center in Vlachiotis supervised by these means. The situation was tragic, because the basic means of personal protection were lacking. Not only were the doctors missing, but also the quick tests for detecting and scanning the personnel and land workers present in the area. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So given that all the regions are slowly entering the olive-growing season, where there are very large flows of land workers and, of course, their association with the inhabitants is increasing and they are missing the quick tests and, of course, that we are entering the second wave of pandemic in winter, we ask you whether and how you intend to obtain a rapid test for preventive control, both of the land workers and of the general population and, finally, how do you plan to supply health structures with consumables so that they can carry out fast tests. 'Cause I'm gonna give you a characteristic phrase...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u19	Mr Colleague, please very much, you will have to complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u20	I shall conclude, Madam President, with that phrase. I shall therefore pass on a characteristic phrase, which I hear from the health centre, which says that if I are to get a quick test, without the personal protective equipment I need to do, I should rather not be sent to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. I would like to remind you that the time of the question is two minutes, with the relative tolerance always. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Arachovitis, the health system today is not unprepared, as you want to present, which is also seen by the management of the pandemic. The reality is different from that which you are presenting to us. Laconia's health structures respond with sufficient resources to the increased requirements that exist today. We respond positively to all the requests from the two hospitals in the county, as well as health centres, thereby strengthening the human health potential of these structures with the necessary recruitment of subsidiary and permanent staff and, of course, strengthening these structures. I'm sure there are needs, especially in the pandemic era. Most of the time we try to cover them and manage it. As far as permanent staff are concerned, there are normally crises in the post, which have been announced at the General Hospital of Molas, with six posts of curators. Where there is a need for subsidiary staff, such action shall be taken and such staff shall be recruited. The case of olive harvesting farms does not differ in substance, as regards the methods and practices to be followed, in order to avoid virus dispersal effects during work. Clear instructions have been given, for example, that, when moving by a CBS or other means of public transport, the use of a mask, keeping distances, and the number of persons on board is very specific. Throughout harvesting, all rural areas are required to avoid confusing phenomena. The same applies to staff accommodation. Therefore, measures exist and are very specific, as is the case with monitoring of compliance with the measures. In any case, we find ourselves in constant readiness, we are not being reassured, and in this way we can and will be interfering with, each time, the necessary actions, from which public health and public health are guaranteed. For the truth, let me make a brief reference to what has happened in the Eurota Municipality. About three thousand rapid tests have been carried out. During ten days all the land workers were checked, more than a thousand three hundred. This avoided further spreading of the virus and until the completion of the tests, these workers abstained from work. Four EGE mobile units have attempted in the wider region. All positive cases were isolated into separate structures and put into medical surveillance and under house arrest all their close contacts were forced. A sufficient number of masks were distributed to land workers from the Municipality of Eurota. The control of the movements of land workers to and from the area in question was decided. For residents it was decided to carry out tests on those who collaborate or have come into contact with the land workers, as well as the mandatory use of a mask. I must tell you that under no circumstances has there been any lack of personal protection. There is the necessary reserve in all the structures of the country and our aim is, as was seen in the first wave of pandemic, not to miss anything and to be adequacy as it exists. There was then, there is now. At the same time, we are building up the necessary strategic reserve to address possible deficiencies from future adverse development of coronary disease. Of course, all health structures and health centres have been provided and provided with rapid tests so that those who have to do so, make them clear and have a clear picture of the situation in the region and of what is going on throughout the country. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u23	Minister, thank you. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, as far as the staff you say are concerned, I have quite a different picture in Laconia. On the contrary, we had the movement of permanent staff from the Hospital of Sparta - in particular, an X-rayer - to the Hospital of Egypt, which weakened the Hospital of Sparta, so that shifts would not come out. I think you have had this in writing for a long time and nothing has happened in this. I mean, not only did we have no support, but we were weakened. As for the quick tests that you say, in a possible case in the hospital or in any health structure, primary or secondary, there are not enough tests to make universal control of the workers first, who with self-depression - this is a fact, you see it all over Greece - give the battle to find out if there is any dispersion. Workers work under difficult conditions, both health and psychological, because they themselves have in their environment sensitive groups either elderly or people with underlying illnesses and live under the same agony, perhaps even greater anxiety than everyone else. Therefore, adequate testing, especially when there is a case inside the hospital, is a big issue. You know that, I guess, way better than all of us. As far as the shielding of primary health structures is concerned, what I am telling you is that, for example, in Sparta in a particular building, two primary health structures are housed in a building. It's Sparta Health Center and Local Health Unit, TOMY. There is no ISOBOX or space where suspected cases are received. So, these structures can't actually accept any suspect cases. I'm just finishing up with the transfer of workers you said. As far as the transport of workers is concerned, you are well aware that what is foreseen - until now at least - is that the employer, together with a worker, with a worker or any other person in the car. But we're talking about land workers here. So when you have to move a workshop that will collect either olives or any other product in Greece, you understand that this cannot be done with the employer and one employee at a time when distances can be quite a mile away from the settlement. You understand that there should be a more specific provision here, so that we do not have problems in harvesting and increasing production costs. I expect your answers and commitments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u25	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Arachovitis, I understand your concern, of course, but let me once again assure you that such cases, like the one in the Municipality of Eurota, have been managed in the past during the pandemic period. Of course, there are plans and protocols on how to deal with such a situation. Experience and history have shown that we have dealt with it successfully. I can assure you that there is no question with regard to the tests and, in particular, with regard to the rapid tests. They were also used in the case of the Municipality of Eurota. Of course, I told you that all health structures have such tests, so that we can have an image in the area and in adjacent areas, to see how the disease is progressing. There is a specific plan, there are specific directives. I would also like to stress that in the case of Laconia there has been a good and constructive cooperation between the Department of Public Health and Social Security in the Peloponnese Region with the National Agency for Public Health and Civil Protection, of course, so that we can deal effectively with this situation. So we know what we have to do and how to do it and all the competent public authorities together. In any case, I would like to assure you once again that any shortcomings and gaps have been recorded and, of course, we will cover these weaknesses, so that at this difficult time in the management of the pandemic the health system will come out stronger and stronger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, too, Minister. We move on to the second debate under number 100/30-10-2020 on a topical question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Exclusive responsibility of the Government of the NW, the deficit of the Special Account for the RES". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I must inform you, Madam President, that today we are witnessing once again Parliament's appeasement by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Hatzidakis. The completely unauthorised and obviously, without his own choice, Mr. Tagaras, who is here, is responsible only for environmental issues and came to answer a timely question about the deficit of the Renewable Energy Special Account. I have to say in public, Mr Tagaras, that Mr Hatzidakis, with this option, publicly underestimates all producers of renewable energy and all the energy market in green energy. His decision not to come to the House proves that he has a great personal and political responsibility for the bankruptcy of the Renewable Energy Special Account, for which he sent you to answer, without even having any ministerial responsibility at that time, that was decided or any thematic responsibility in your portfolio. I also think, Madam President, that Mr Hatzidakis has not come today because he wants to hide the real objectives, his own, for this bankruptcy and where he wants to be driven. Really, Mr Tagaras, I want you to tell us frankly: has Mr Hatzidakis confided you what he intends to do and why he sent you and he hid and didn't come to Parliament? Does he, in your presence, want to make you co-responsible for this bankruptcy? Have you thought about it? I would, of course, like to ask you something else, which is not the subject of the question: The bill you announced last week on the harmonisation of directives and the waste, that you will hear at OpenGov on Friday, did it fall along with Mrs Kerame's Webex this morning? Because we're still looking to find the bill you said. Another inconsistency! Not even a single bill can be posted for the harmonisation of European directives! I cannot, of course, say that Mr Tagaras, who came today, has linked his term of office to the Ministry of the Environment in the previous period - when he was a substitute - to bankruptcy and then the special account. Perhaps Mr Hatzidakis chose to send you here today, to remind us that you were, and then the political leadership of the Ministry of the Environment, when the account was relapsed, because then you handed over the account - to the SYRIZA Government - with a deficit of EUR 800 million. Then there was a complete unreliability of the state for the investment of renewable energy sources. The government of SYRIZA managed to create a security reserve, deliver you a surplus of about 180m euros in July 2018 and at the same time have created competitive procedures for renewable energy sources, so that we have lower prices and legal certainty. All this was done by the uninvesting - taggers - government of SYRIZA. You, who are friendly to investment, have seen what you've achieved. You have charged the account of renewable energy over a year, and now there is insecurity throughout the market in renewable energy, together with the problems you have caused in the conflicts on land, which you have created insecurity throughout society, and our country today is no longer a destination safe for investment in renewable energy. You know, we don't care about the face of the New Democracy, because, as our people say, the thief and the liar are happy in the first year. We are interested in our country's adequacy in green energy investments. It is ironic that you have abolished NATURA 2000 entities, abolish forest maps, promote waste incineration, create problems now in renewable energy sources and say that you are green' government, that you have green' Prime Minister. The shortest joke you've ever made on the ecological market!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Colleague, go ahead with your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u30	I shall conclude, Madam President. But we are asking very specific questions. You have created a matter of credibility in investment in renewable energy sources. It is a deficit and the functioning of these investments is questioned. So let us know how you plan to cover the hole that you created in ELEI. How are you going to reverse the untrustworthy climate you've created? You admit one thing here today, Mr Tagaras: With the unfair, unjust, unjust, unjust and unwitting choice of increasing energy prices you have simultaneously created a deficit in the account, because you have reduced the special fee of EMSMAR. We want a clear answer, Mr Tagaras, and not an escape.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I must say that for what you said about the Minister, the Secretary-General will answer you, but yet the government has a representative today and so he has not avoided your question. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u32	I would like to say, Mr President, that it is common - and before today, it will also be tomorrow - to represent the State Secretary of the relevant Minister in parliamentary control. As far as power is concerned, the Minister has it, Mr Hatzidakis. I would like to say to you, however, that all the questions that have been asked to the Ministry of the Environment, with no exception, are all answered by the Ministry of the Environment, which is why I am here today. I will just make one point: in 2014 I did not have the power to ask, but it doesn't matter. On the issues that you mentioned before, I would like to say that the Government's actions to support the transition to clean energy are well known. This is also recorded in the national energy and climate plan where we have set increased targets for the contribution of renewable energy sources to 35% in terms of energy consumption in 2030 and 60% in terms of the country's electricity production. This is what we are doing through simplifying the licensing framework for renewables, which we started with Law 46852020, replacing the production licence and granting the producer certificate. We are simplifying environmental legislation and licensing for RES projects and with interventions, which we are currently preparing, will simplify the licensing and operating phases, because we want the authorisation of new projects to be reduced from five to six years, which is currently up to two years, as provided for in the relevant directive. We are preparing for acts of hybrids, with regard to renewable energy, storage, offshore works and modern technologies, renewable energy. The support for green energy and RES is therefore reflected in the acts and not in the words. I now come to the finances of renewable energy sources. As the Minister has pointed out in many circumstances, we are of course interested in the stability of the special EIA account. The deficit problem in the special account is not Greek but pan-European. It also exists in countries which are economically stronger, such as Germany. In view of the pandemic and restrictive measures, demand and energy consumption decreased by affecting both the system limit value and the receipts from the EMFF. It's something everyone recognizes. So the government is trying to give a fair and sustainable solution, like any other government in Europe. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. We are discussing with the interested parties and we will soon be presenting concrete measures with the interests of consumers on the one hand and the country's investment image on the other. Because of the time I'm going to continue in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Tagaras, we're not starting right. We need to create a basis of honesty between us. The Government refuses to admit that it is a deficit because it has reduced the special fee paid by consumers to hide the increases it made in September. Here, Madam President, the government has been confronting all the associations of the RES producers who have expressed that at the end of 2019, because you have made a retroactive reduction in EMFF since the beginning of 2019, you have led to a deficit of EUR 200 million. Where was the pandemic then? Did you discover it backwards to justify it? Let go of the fairy tales. The government of SYRIZA had predicted not just to give you a surplus account, but to have a 70m euro pillow for possible negative circumstances, such as pandemic. You didn't keep that either. And you've consumed that. Do you know why you led this market into bankruptcy? Because you probably want to take care of a few in super-profits - not you personally, perhaps Mr Hatzidakis - because there are suppliers who have a four-fold energy sales price from the gross price in April 2020. And that's official data, Mr. Tagaras. Why do you deny them? Today that society needs, we are now paying too much for the electricity to settle suppliers who are not producers, have no investment, which you have hidden in increasing the price of energy and making them the tribute. We are told that the next fortnight will be handed over to a study by the GRANT THORNTON on the viability of ELAP. So you, too, have serious concerns. The latest information on RDP tells us that it will have a deficit of 287 million at the end of the year. We are also learning that the RAE study will report a one billion-billion deficit in the 2022 special account. In other words, more than what we committed in 2015. Very nice you've done. You also reduce in 2019 the reserves of EMSMAR, the special account, because you made this big increase. Don't try to find any excuses that are manifestly fake and funny. The money, which consumers pay, is enough for the special bill. But they gather too much profits in the pockets of a few. And you're putting them back on, Mr. Tagaras. See what the conditions Mr Hatzidakis says: Do not trouble suppliers and do not come back - he says - the EMSMAR at its previous price. Really, who do you work for at the Ministry for? Do you work for millions of consumers or for five, six, ten suppliers? Because both of these, and the cost of suppliers and EMCDDAAR, to ensure that the account is viable, SYRIZA dared them. Mr. Tagaras, SYRIZA dared them without making a single euro increase in electricity in the four years 2015-2019. And you, once you came, increased your bills to the detriment of all consumers, to the detriment of the Greek industry, to the benefit of some of the system's best friends. And now you are going to go bankrupt with renewable energy. And that will lead to loss of investment, because you now want to put your hands on the Recovery Fund and your rights money. Madam President, what is Mr Hatzidakis saying now? From the greenhouse gas trading rights that we put in "Security" and the Fair Transfer Fund you will get money to cover the deficit of your choice. And you will also get from the European Union's Recovery Fund - which has to come to Greece to make new investments to win the battle with the pandemic - to cover the deficit of your choices. Isn't that the assumption of your own political mistake? Unfortunately, we don't only see justice. You have to admit that you have led to a rough, superficial, unscientific, unscientific solution that has gone bankrupt through the entire RES account and you have sole responsibility for this bankruptcy because it was only your choice to reduce EMEPAR that led to this option. The only concern you have received all this time is for suppliers, because you have intervened in alleviating charges from the payment of the regulated charges. PPC's tariffs are expensive, you leave the consistent consumers and PPC loses customers, you privatise the retail grid, you lead to violent liberation without a plan, you get private individuals to produce electricity, and that is why you close PPC's units, you create investment winters in renewable energy sources and unreliability, while you take no measure for energy poverty, i.e. no measure for cheaper electricity and some treasure in the crisis, Mr Tagaras. Be careful, you said - Mr. Hadjidakis said it - that you will not take measures for the expensive current because you do not want to favour the batters. Eventually, who proves to be a cop? Your government, Mr. Tagaras. Because you got a surplus account and made it a deficit. So who are the cops? The political leadership of the Ministry of Environment and Energy. A positive account inside the Memorandum, outside the Memorandum, made him negative. And you've been doing this since 2019, because you've made retrospective decisions all over 2019. You took a housewife, and you bankrupt it. You put it in creative accounting to make some of your best friends in the back, and now all RES investors won't have subsidies or go to a new haircut.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u36	I shall conclude, Madam President. You were in the government when you cut subsidisation and promised them that you would never make a new haircut again. So you created the problem and now you multiply the problems that the SYRIZA government solved. You are guilty of this, Mr. Tagaras, and you will create a negative footprint on the development of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Last year, Mr. Colleague, we had no pandemic and coronary, but we had something even worse, the collapse of PPC. I have already mentioned that pandemic and restrictive measures have led to a reduction in energy demand and this has adversely affected not only the special RES account, but also the entire energy system. As you well know, last year's reduction in EMCDDAAR was decided not to force PPC's customers to increase their tariffs because we took steps to save the company itself, which fortunately - and seems in practice - has been hitting on its feet since a tragic year ago. Are you telling us that we should not reduce the EMFF that you delivered PPC and charge consumers' accounts? Because the reduction in EMCDDA was precisely to prevent PPC's tariff increases being carried forward and to allow PPC to stand - and I am glad to say this again - to keep the consumer from paying for this increase. That's why we reduced the EMFF last year. I think that you, too, are considering that the consumer should not have paid this state of transition from PPC's bankruptcy to its recovery as is currently the case. This would worsen, if it were not the case, and we did not reduce EMCMAR, even more the tragic situation of PPC, as the energy pillar of PPC and the country would collapse and create huge problems for the entire energy sector, including RES. Would it be a credible policy, not for consumers, but for the entire energy sector in the country? We will therefore move on to the necessary measures to tackle the problem in the EPP. The final decisions will be taken following the dialogue with the market and the stakeholders, which has already begun. We are not going to surprise anyone, nor are we going to jeopardise the investors' credit obligations, and on this issue we have already made discussions with the banks. After all, we could not seek to strengthen the participation of the RES in the energy mix of the country without building an attractive framework for investment in order to develop many new renewable energy projects. We cannot talk about attracting investment if existing investors were not fully and promptly compensated for the energy they produce and power the system. So the solution that we will give and which will soon be announced by the Minister himself will be both balanced and fair for all market participants, compatible with our strategy to strengthen the RES and modernise the energy market. As far as the additives are concerned, in addition to the question you have asked, for protected areas, but also for forest maps, I think that I have discussed and answered them on several occasions. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I would like your tolerance for a minute, Madam President, because it has been raised as a matter of urgency. As far as forest maps are concerned, you know that the delay and necessity of suspension again is due to the unconstitutionality of the provision concerning housing densities. One was, therefore, adaptation and correction and the second and in the definition of the very concept of settlement over and above the others supplemented. As far as the protected areas are concerned, you know the new body, the Natural Environment Agency, the OFYPEKA, which is a comprehensive central organisation that can coordinate, organise, direct, plan, organise resources, use resources and financial instruments so that we can be more efficient, more integrated in our interventions and environmental protection. However, because this is another issue, we will have the possibility at some other time to discuss it. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, too, Minister. We continue with the first with number 102/30-10-2020 in the second cycle of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance, Alexandros Meikopoulou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The Volos is sickened by air pollution". The question will also be answered by the State Secretary for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Here, Mr. Meikopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, in advance, I have absolutely no intention of reducing your credibility, but also your adequacy. Because today we will discuss an issue of research and study in progress, and in particular we will discuss its second phase, I hope that Mr Hatzidakis, with whom we discussed the first phase of this investigation, has informed you of the results of this. I hope Mr Hatzidakis has finally learned who Mr Gürgulianis is, who Mr Saharides is and what GreenYour Air is, because last time he did not know, he would have informed you about all this. Otherwise, if we are to have a debate again in the first place, then I will take the absence of Mr Hatzidakis today as a mockery toward the citizens and the scientific community of the city of Volos. On 15-10 at the Annual Panhellenic Conference "Pneumonology Days" the results of the 12-month research of the Volos Hospital's Pulmonary Clinic in collaboration with the Department of Engineering of the University of Thessaly on the interconnection of pollution incidents, i.e. on the days that the pollution has been exceeded, as demonstrated by the first investigation, with the cases of morbidity, i.e. just to say how many people visit the Bologna Hospital during the days when the exceedance is recorded. According to the results of the paediatric incidents presented at Volos Hospital in a total of three hundred sixty-six days, 32.43%, two thousand and seventy-six children were related to the days when the hazardous micro particles were in excess, while in the pathological cases 25.83% were associated with imports when the micro particles were in excess. The special team of research from the University of Thessaly prepared and submitted, Minister, concrete proposals for air monitoring and improving the health of citizens, such as the installation of PM2.5 cash in the industrial zone of Volos for a detailed distribution of sources of pollution coming from the west, as well as the installation of a network of cash in Agrias, Agios Georgios and Velestino. However, according to the scientific group, none of the proposals have been accepted either by the region or by the Ministry of the Environment. So, Minister, the question is a simple one, because the problem is now being toxic and directly related to public health in the city, on the one hand, you intend to adopt the proposals of this research group in order to accurately record the polluting factors in the region and what are the immediate measures you intend to take in order to deal with this acute problem of air pollution in Volos?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the Member, Mr Meikopoulou, for his question. Indeed, air quality and air pollution are crucial issues that concern the Ministry of the Environment and Energy and of course relate to the quality of life of citizens and public health. The problems faced by the citizens of Volos and the possible connection to factors you have mentioned have been dealt with many times by the Ministry of the Environment, as you mentioned, in the past and through parliamentary control, and I am aware of the specific research carried out by the University of Thessaly on pollution in Volos. As far as the Ministry of the Environment is concerned, you know - and I say this to those who are listening to us - that the quality of the atmosphere is monitored by the National Air Pollution Monitoring Network with fixed automatic stations operating 24/7. The network stations monitor pollutants provided for in the relevant legislation for the assessment and assessment of the quality of the environment and air, i.e. European Directives 2004/107, 2008/50, as amended by Directive 2015/1480. The Directives have introduced limit values and values - objectives to protect health from normal atmospheric pollutants. The network includes a measuring station at Volos, the 1st Primary School, which was installed in 2000 and whose responsibility is for the Region of Thessaly. In addition, at the beginning of the year the region installed a second station receiving air pollution measurement data from six analysts. The process of supplying another station to join the National Monitoring Network with funding from the Green Fund is under way. The notice will be on the "air" in the next period. Finally, in September 2020 he joined the 2014-2020 Regional Programme for the procurement of two more cash and measuring stations for Volos and Magnesia. The consultation and technical specifications are complete and a notice of the project is expected to be issued. The densification of the network of stations to monitor the quality of the atmosphere, which is one of the proposals of the research team of the University of Thessaly, is already under way. In addition, the Region of Thessaly informs us that it has concluded a programme contract with the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, namely the Chemical Pollution Control Laboratory of the Department of Chemistry, to investigate chemical composition and origin of dysosmia in Volos. In June 2020 three fixed swabs were installed at selected sites in the town complex of Volos for regular and extraordinary sampling. At the same time, sampling is carried out in industrial activities of the area monitored by the project committee with special laptop equipment. To date, ninety regular samples have been carried out by regular stations and five in industrial activities. In other words, systematic efforts are being made to investigate the nature and possible sources of the problem of dysosmia, as is recommended by the investigation. I'm going to go on in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u43	Me too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u44	Mr Secretary-General, I am really sorry that you have been answering the exact same thing for a year now, exactly the same content. In other words, the one and only counter of the Ministry of the Environment, which operates under the supervision of the Region of Thessaly, adequately records, in your opinion, the issue of the city's air, when he himself confirmed the results of the research team and recorded, for the first time after so many years, overrun of these micro particles in the city's atmosphere. If that's not a mockery, answer me the same thing all the time, then what is a mockery! Secondly, you know, you do not put a stop to pollution until the state operates and after this cash network has been installed, which you have been proclaiming for a year, then the state will properly record the issue of air and the citizens will feel safe again. It is also no longer an exaggeration, Minister, to tell you this: in the city of Volos, an environmental and even social crime has been committed for years. Because now you too see that the city's air pollution is linked to morbidity phenomena. And don't tell me, Minister, that you don't know that this is not the first time that this investigation is being conducted. In the spring of 2019, the Epidemiology Department of the Medical School of the University of Thessaly had presented the study "Nationality and Mortality" in Thessaly. Based on this study, Minister, Magnesia and Volos, mortality was higher than the average of Greece in various forms of cancer, such as liver and esophagus and three and a half times higher in strokes. All this time state institutions, i.e. the Region of Thessaly and the Ministry, insisted that the air of the city is clean. A few days ago the sole measure of the region, i.e. the Ministry of the Environment, recorded overrun, confirming the study of the University of Thessaly. And do you know where the problem gets much bigger? In that the measurement in question does not have the ability to record any more important urban chemical pollutants, either technologically proficiency or technologically proficiency. Read the answer, in the first time I had tabled, from the General Secretariat of the Ministry of the Environment. You will see that he points out. Therefore, the density of suspended microparticles in the record carried out by the GreenYourAir group has so far been recorded. It is not recorded what they carry, nor can it record any other chemical pollutants so far. What's the matter, Minister? That's why I asked you if Mr. Hatzidakis has informed you. Inside the city of Volos there are large industries, which are in operation. These industries are currently using waste fuel. So far, it has not been established or studied what chemical pollutants this combustion is excreting. So think, Minister, what will happen in the city of Volos if you also give confirmation to the Municipality of Volos to build a SRF plant without having scientific knowledge and scientific adequacy, with proven pollution from suspended micro particles. Imagine that waste fuels are excreted and chemical pollutants in the urban environment. Who's gonna be indebted next? Who's going to have a responsibility after that? Minister, things are simple and I hope you will surprise me at last because I have heard the exact same thing for a year and a half. The Volo smells and they still haven't determined where it smells. At Volos, the atmosphere is breathtaking and so far all state actors say that the atmosphere is clean. In Volos the world is getting sick, and the region and the Ministry of the Environment insist that they behave with such a preoccupation as if it were the elephant in the room. They're pretending they don't see it. I hope you surprise me and take drastic measures. People no longer expect an answer. He's waiting for actions!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Madam President. I would also refer to the 2019 study, which you referred to. First of all, I want to tell you that there are different measurements for particles, different measurements for odors. I also said in my protology that the unspoken measurement of odors has been assigned to the Aristotle. As regards particles mentioned in the 2019 study, I would like to tell you that the station operating in Volos under the supervision of the Ministry of the Environment recorded in 2019 an average annual concentration for suspended particles PM10 of 29 mg/m3 and thus the institutionalised annual limit value of 40 mg/m3 is not exceeded. Twenty-six days were observed with a mean 24-hour PM concentration greater than 50 mg/m3 of which ten were attributed to dust from remote areas such as Sahara. However, and without the removal of the impact of dust, provided for by the relevant legislation as a procedure, neither the daily limit value, which is thirty-five days per year, has been exceeded. As regards the suspended PM2.5 particles, the station recorded an annual average concentration of 16 mg/m3 and thus no excess of the annual limit value, which is 25 mg/m3. A similar picture existed from the measurements for the first quarter of 2020, which, if I'm not mistaken, also examines the investigation of the University of Thessaly, while then, due to the restrictive measures, there was a total reduction in pollutants and an improvement in air quality. The measurement data at the stations, on an annual basis, and the primary data are available on the Ministry's website, as well as published on the Thessaly Region's website. The historical data from the station in Volos show that the suspended particles PM10 and PM2.5 show a time-consuming trend of reduction. This is the picture that the station gives us, the data from the relevant department of the Ministry, the Climate Change and Quality Department of Atmosphere. Regarding the research of the University of Thessaly, it has not been notified until now to the relevant directorate of the Ministry, so it cannot assess its results and the methodologies. It doesn't mean that the study is not right or that the scientists who work it out do not know their job. However, in order to ensure the reliability of the measurements by the Ministry of the Environment, specific procedures provided for in European and Union legislation are followed. It would be useful - and if you do not know, I say it here too - to send us whatever information has emerged in order to take it into account and to make sure that we do what is foreseen by the legislation with the new information that will be sent to us. The problem of atmospheric pollution concerns us all, and any proposal can enrich the actions of the Ministry of the Environment to improve the quality of the atmosphere is for everyone's benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, too, Minister. We will now discuss the fifth under number 118/2-11-2020 the second question by MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Balafa, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Union treatment of the rightholders of a national pension.' The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Mr. Balafa, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, good evening. I would like to say that the timely question we ask relates to the unfavourable treatment of Greek homosexuals from Northern Epirus in particular, but not only, as regards their pension rights. From our point of view, Mr Minister, if you intend to move to an institutional initiative, and if so, when? The question concerns two issues, firstly, as regards the retirement of older pensioners, namely that it is not compulsory for thirty-five years of residence in our country, so that there is no reduction in their earnings by one thirty-fifth of a year and that they can receive the full amount of this pension and the corresponding medical care, which is a sum of EUR 360. Secondly, as far as the national pension is concerned, which all workers, after 15 years of work, are entitled to, it is for us not to be required in addition, beyond 15 years of age, and forty years of residence in our country. In the timely question we have tabled, Minister, specific reference is made to the legislation of the period 2012-2016, a period of commemorative restrictions for all, on the basis of which there has been a reduction in the pensions that our relatives have been entitled to and their care for. However, following the Memorandum Restrictions, there was a continuation, namely, first, to Law 4618 in June 2019, on the SYRIZA Government, the abolition of the 30-year-old requirement, mentioned above, was voted. However, unfortunately, the joint ministerial decision (JRC) needed to implement the law has not yet been adopted, that is, after a year and a half. Secondly, in the course of your current governance, two amendments - additions tabled by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group concerning, on the one hand, thirty-five years of uninsured overtime and, on the other, the equal treatment of insured homosexuals with regard to national pensions, both these amendments were rejected by Mr Brutsis and the Government. That is why we are asking - in particular, if possible, not generic principles, please - if you intend and when to issue the very delaying joint ministerial decision on the uninsured age and if you intend and when to bring such a provision on national pension, so that we too can responsiblely inform the thousands of our relatives, who are concerned, sometimes indignant and possessed by a reasonable and fully justified complaint about this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Come on, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Balafa, first of all, I would like to say that by reading your question the way it was tabled, we have also been misled by the Ministry's services. This is because, in your question, you confuse the national pension with the social solidarity allowance for unsecured overtime and, finally, your question, with the specific amounts you mentioned, was mainly for what is an allowance rather than a pension, the social solidarity of unsecured over-ages. In view of the fact that there is nothing between the two, I would like to see things cleared up and have a constructive debate, to clarify the following. The term ‘securitisation of uninsured over-ages’ you use in your question does not exist. What exists is the pension right, which is inextricably linked to insurance and the payment of contributions. There is provision in our country to support our fellow citizens, who for whatever reason could not fulfil the necessary conditions to receive a pension. For them, there is this provision for the allowance of uninsured overtime. This allowance is not a pension. It is a social policy tool and it concerns those who are not receiving or who will not receive a pension under the rules of our insurance system. It is a privileged provision, such as the minimum guaranteed income, the family allowance or the housing allowance, and is financed directly from State budget resources, i.e. taxpayers' money. And, of course, it aims to protect people living in the country from the risk of poverty, who are over-aged and have no other significant sources of income. For all these reasons, its grant is linked to specific criteria. Greece does not originalize this. Similar allowances exist in many European countries. The criteria are two kinds. The first is the income criterion. The second is the criterion of residence. The second to which you referred, namely the national pension, is one of the two parts of the pension received by the insured persons. The second is the so-called 'equivalent pension'. The national pension is directly linked to the insurance history and the establishment of a pension entitlement. It has no income requirement, as such conditions do not have any pension benefits. So let us not confuse the two completely different policy tools, which have a different structure and a different target. It's a different thing to be insured, and the welfare is different. Now, when reading your question carefully, we came to the fact that you were probably referring to the allowance for unsecured overtime. You have now referred to national pensions in your place. The answer I have prepared relates mainly to the first, which is the advance payment that I have said. This allowance is up to EUR 360 and is granted by OPEKA. And what are the prerequisites? Supplement of sixty-seventh year, not to receive or be entitled to a pension from abroad or from any insurance or promotional provision in Greece of more than EUR 360. If they receive any such pension from abroad, then any right is not lost, it is simply filled up to the amount of EUR 360. There are income criteria depending on the family situation, with the individual income not exceeding EUR 4.320, i.e. EUR 360 per month, or twice if it is a couple, i.e. EUR 8 640. They must also reside permanently in Greece for 15 consecutive years prior to the submission of the application or for 15 years between the 17th and the sixty-seventh year of age, of which ten must be continuously prior to the submission of the application. Beneficiaries of the allowance shall be entitled to medical and hospital care from public health structures. This expenditure in 2020 is expected to be around EUR 145,000 on the basis of state budget figures. I would like to stress that, as in all pre-school allowances, the conditions for granting these allowances are absolutely necessary in order only to obtain from those who really need and to make optimum use of the available resources. I shall refer more specifically to this issue in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u52	Minister, I believe you will do so in your dentistry, but the answer to the questions was not there. You may tell me that 'I have no answer to you'. That would be an honest answer. But there's no answer. Nor is his descriptions of what's going on. We know. And look, don't stick to whether we'll call it a pension or an allowance, because it makes it easier for you. It makes it easier, because if it were a pension, as you say, there would be problems - to you - in terms of the amount and the damage that any treatment of pensions could bring about in the way we propose It's a simple matter. And it is not just what I said before, Minister. There's one more thing. There has been - and I would like you to take this into account - a commitment by the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, who carried a word for word in this Chamber, into a debate on a timely question by Mr Katsotis from the JRC Parliamentary Group in February 2020. Mr Brutsi has said that the Prime Minister will solve the pension problem - or whatever you want to say - of the relatives. In fact, Mr Brutsis complemented the fact that the Ministry of Labour is working - he said this in February 2020 - in order to table the relevant provision in March or April 2020. But again, despite the nine months that have elapsed since that time, nothing has happened, anything has happened. That's the problem. It's a matter of honesty. Are you going to do something? To inform people that they have to wait or have not to wait on one issue and the other. Because, you know, to have a conversation and, in terms of coronary conditions, it is not the best thing to say. Because of your quality, you're a man of the university space, I really think it would honor everyone to have a specific, if possible, answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u54	Mr Balafa, I would like to insist on this point: other pensions, other benefits.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u55	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u56	You referred to something I would like to go to. The government of SYRIZA passed a few days before the 2019 elections a provision to reduce the conditions of residence for Albanian relatives, knowing that they will never apply it. Or he would've done it a lot sooner.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u57	So, you're not going to sign the FDA. Just so I know what I'm gonna tell them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u58	I didn't say that. I am referring to what you have done, the government to which you have already participated. The purpose was not to resolve a matter. I think it was intended for the election of a request. Really, I would like to ask: why did you not show the same concern for the Soviet Union's relatives or for other charges or immigrants from other countries?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u59	We've all shown ourselves. It is about the whole of the homosexuals.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u60	I wanted to say that your prolongation does not claim the sensitivity to our fellow citizens' needs and demands. From this point of view, I would like to stress that the government is genuinely responsible for policy, not fragmented, but carefully designed, in the light of the social well-being and potential of our economy. Let me now get to this point. Any undertaking given by the Government shall apply. However, the implementation time is also dependent on external factors - and you understand very well at what time we are - but also the needs we have to face. Let me remind you that together with the whole planet we are in the middle of the second wave of pandemic. Priorities are at the moment, on the one hand, to save human lives and, on the other, to keep the economy and jobs upright. The efforts so far have proved particularly effective in both objectives. Just a few days ago, on October 26 more specifically, Eurostat published information on the increase in unemployment in EU Member States in the quarantine period in the second quarter. There Greece was the country that had the greatest success of all. In other words, the rise in unemployment was around 2%, at a time when it was much higher in countries with much more advanced social protection systems: the Netherlands, Sweden, France, Germany and so on. Now, in the second wave we are ready again, but the support measures do not forget that they have already exceeded 6% of the Gross Domestic Product and we already have 3.3 billion euros ready to be given in the next few months. At the same time, our cash reserves amount to EUR 37.5 billion, 50% of which was built in the last year by the current government, while most of the balance is, in fact, committed by the European Stability Mechanism under strict conditions and conditions, as a result of the enhanced surveillance in which our country has been in place since 2018. In conclusion, what I would like to say, Mr Balafa, is that you can stay quiet that the government acts in all these matters at the appropriate time and in the most appropriate way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, too, Minister. Then there will be a debate on the seventh under number 112/11-2020 on the second question of a second question from the Member of Parliament of Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "Strengthening of the agony of workers in Scaramaga Shipyards". The question will also be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglu. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, there is a cry of agony for the workers at the Scaramaga shipyard. I am sure that your point has been taken over since you took responsibility for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The future of the Scaramaga shipyard established six decades ago is uncertain, as the company "ELLINIKA NAHYIA SA" has been placed under special management regime since 8 March 2018, in accordance with the provisions of Article 68 of Law4307/2014. For over a decade, workers have been questioned about working relationships. Of course, a major question and issue is the issue of remuneration and insurance contributions. The company, as of 18 April 2012, has put all its staff on rotating labour supply with only one day a week. This led to eighteen months in total, which was, of course, the maximum allowed under the law. Workers at this time provided work. They were at their jobs. They were involved in the maintenance of the infrastructure, the facilities of the shipyard, the maintenance of the submarines who have played a decisive role in the recent period, and also called on the company to give them an object to be employed. Since May 2014, workers under the provisions of Article 26 of Law 4258/2014 on the continuation of the submarine project have agreed to provide - and provide - services to the Hellenic Navy from which they are paid, in accordance with the then provisional agreement and, of course, on the basis of the reopening of the shipyards with 65% of their remuneration. For the payment of a portion of what is due today is more than 170 million - and we will then say how much - the workers have already submitted a confiscation on the part of the Greek State since 2017 as a third of any claim which the company "ELLINIKA NAFHYGIA S.A." has or will have in the future by the Greek State with ships from the submarines' programme. The company’s special liquidator has now proceeded to the sale of the yard’s assets. And despite the assurances that were made by your Government, there is no binding condition to ensure the continuation of labour contracts for all workers. This, as you can see - and we are all aware - causes major insecurity in the shipyards and uncertainty in the workers for their future. Minister, I have two questions for you. Firstly, what is the government's plan, in the end, to secure the jobs of the Scaramaga shipyards? Is it going to be what happened with other shipyards? It is well known that some jobs have been secured on some other terms, perhaps. Secondly, what immediate action will you take to bring the workers together, but also to settle them and this is a major issue, and that is, the insurance gaps between 18 March 2012 and 30 September 2013? Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u63	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u64	Thank you again, Madam President. Mr Mulkiotis, I would like to begin by saying that your question raises main issues which have been of concern for Scaramaga shipyard workers for many years. However, it is also a very good opportunity to discuss, on the one hand, how we will not leave the opportunity to revive the shipbuilding and defence industries in our country again, and how choices will not be repeated that have led to the smuggling of public money, where wealth should be produced for the Greek economy. Unfortunately, this is not only the experience of the Scaramaga shipyards, but a large number of other public sector enterprises, some of which are active in the defence industry. And it is truly disappointing that, on the one hand, our country is one of the most important defence armaments buyers in the world. If we go to see data from EUROSTAT, we see that only Latvia has a higher rate of defensive expenditure than Greece over GDP across the European Union, while, at the same time, the domestic defence industry that has already received literally giant government subsidies presents accumulated deficits and debts of hundreds of millions of euros. Especially for the Skaramaga shipyards, our aim is to create an organised policy for the future of the shipyards, which, apart from maximising the investment interest in the assets of the shipyards, will lead to their more advantageous disposal for the benefit of the Greek State with the greatest possible job security. These axes are at the heart of the consultation of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs with the appropriate ministries, which, as you know, are the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Development and Investment and the Ministry of National Defence. We are working together, methodically and with realism at the political and administrative level, without exaggeration in a genuinely gordic link to finding balanced solutions, which should, in fact, be applied in an environment of budgetary constraints as a result of the recent health crisis. Mr Mulkiotis, attracting strong economic patterns, successful completion of the competitive process and ensuring investment in Scaramaga shipyards is a strategic pursuit of the government. Our aim is to produce the company that highlights the strategic importance of the shipyards for the country's productive tissue. In the difficult circumstances where the government is concerned it is not disoriented by its main objective, namely to change the country's production model. The government has shown in practice that it is working to attract foreign investments in every sector of the economy and we have seen several examples of success in this area in recent weeks. We need an extroverted economy, technologically advanced, that produces world-wide market goods of high value added. We need foreign and domestic investments that create sustainable jobs. The Scaramaga shipyards can qualify for the lead of the next day, not only in Greece, but also in the south-eastern Mediterranean area. A serious investment in the shipyards will create new jobs and resurrect our country's shipbuilding and defence industry. It is therefore a government priority, on the one hand, to create new jobs and, on the other, to deplete every margin for maintaining workers' jobs. Best support for workers is promoted through finding solutions to maintain jobs in conjunction with other tools. What are these other tools? For those posts which can function as a bridge, towards an alternative scenario, namely, in the event of a change in the working regime, for example, through the implementation of workers' training and relocation programmes, or something that is particularly relevant to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the facilitation of the retirement of special people who are very close to the retirement limit. That is what I wanted to say in terms of jobs. I shall refer to the other issues that you have raised in your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we are indeed in a pandemic situation that has troubled us all, and it is a major issue. I'm not talking about it. I heard you talking about the defence industry and your views. I wish the entire government had those views you're saying. I don't say it accidentally. There were contacts both with the Defence Systems and with the Greek Air Industry and we saw that there is not such a good situation, it is not in such a good place. The Greek Air Industry is located without the CEO. It is not matters as simple as you would like and I believe that you want it that the government seems to follow. Unfortunately, in our view, Mr Minister, some such procedures seem to be being discredited. Unfortunately, at least they do not seem to be development policies. They do not seem justified and do not mean the Greek Government and do not have the shareholder in the Greek Air Industry, EAB, and do not know what the EAB is like. We cannot accept these and, unfortunately, that is the reality as much as you want to shape the situation in the context of your responsibilities. As far as what is concerned with the shipyards is concerned, I said earlier that there is a great debt of labour requirements, most of them finally - and some others have been given final decisions, but because of their special management, the court procedures have not gone ahead and therefore could not be finalised. There is the confiscation of third parties against the Greek public - we have said this - and we are waiting for this process of seizures of whatever money is available and can be given to HSY, for workers to be taken by the confiscation they have made. You also know, Minister, that the differences between the Greek State and HSY, which stem from the contract for the construction of the submarines, have now been deemed irrevocably by the International Diet Court. They were all quantified in favour of HSY against the Greek State, EUR 75 million with legitimate interest. The Greek public what he did? He appealed to the Court of Appeal in Athens and rejected the appeal by the Greek State. Once he saw this, proceed to the Arena Ice. He's brought an appeal to the Arena Ice, and at 12-10 was the conversation. What do the workers want, Minister? They ask that the decision be made by the Marble Ice to pay back the money they have to make. To take the money which workers have been entitled to for so many years and which they have not been paid for - it is a long time - and there is this possibility of seizing on third-party hands. That's the only way workers get the money. For the sale price due to HSY's very high debt to creditors, workers together with the other creditors - banks, public funds - do you understand that they will take almost anything or take too little. By seizing third-party workers will be able to take money, and that is why I want you to take a position as government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As far as insurance is concerned - and I am ending, Madam President - it is an insurance arrangement of an eighteen-month period. Do you know that from 18-3/2012 to 3-9-2013 all staff, as I said, went to rotating work? However, immediately with the extrajudicial decisions condemning the company, there were also labour disputes in IKA Elefsina, where workers were complained and asked for their insurance to proceed. Since then, and so far, it has not gone on and workers have been living in a situation of uncertainty. However, there was a question from the IKA to the Legal Council of State and there is an opinion number 41/2020, which considers that the company's place in special management is not a coma in order to have insurance. Of course, although the primary decisions do not oblige the IKA to accept the fact of employment, we cannot go ahead because we have a legal procedure which requires that the primary decisions should not go further. In any case, however, there should also be a justification for another kind of approach to workers. We believe that these workers can, on the basis of this data, obtain this sort of sorting and that what you said might be done: is it close to retirement? To settle the issue of contributions from this short period of time and to leave people, so that some other jobs can be secured. And I'm ending up. There's been a lot of effort. I will also present in the minutes the press release of the GCC, which pounds the alarm - you know, Minister, I believe - and expresses the great concern for so many workers, for the position of these people and the uncertainty that exists. We believe that the eighteen-month insurance arrangement with the rotating work that was in existence can be carried out as well as a voluntary withdrawal programme by providing incentives, so that there can be those people who remain the right to work. That's what they care about. Thank you very much, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Mulkiotis, in this regard, it is obviously not simple, as you mentioned before. In my position I called it a 'gord bond', that is, we cannot go any further in terms of difficulty. On the other hand, we must not close our eyes to what has happened so far. We have seen, in other words, large defence industries in Greece under public management that have had severe deficit management. That is why what we are trying to do is to involve the private sector more effectively throughout this process. In addition to the question about jobs in the Scaramaga shipyards, you are also asking what is going to happen with the employees' numbers and to settle the relevant insurance gaps for the period from April 2012 - the eighteenth month you said - by September 2013. The question of employees for the critical period has already been raised in Greek justice. You also refer to it in your question. These cases have been dealt with at first instance by the competent civil courts and judgments in question, invoking sums to the detriment of the employer. With respect to the decisions of Greek justice, all the relevant ministries ensure that there is no worker who loses his jobs. We know the difficulties of workers and their families. The insurance of workers for the same period is also a key issue for our Ministry, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. On this issue we are working with all the co-legislative ministries, which I mentioned earlier, namely finance, development, national defence, as well as with the Special Manager, because as you have stressed in your question, the company is already under special management and we are working on solutions to ensure workers' insurance rights. The use of investment - and I would like to stress this - goes through the normalisation of the serious gaps which concern workers. Mr Mulkiotis, dealing with the issues relating to the Scaramaga shipyards is directly linked, as I mentioned at the beginning of my reply, with the attempt to rebuild and relaunch the shipyard as a whole in our country. The Government is facing the complex problems of the Scaramaga shipyards with realism and commitment to its reform effort. Indeed, maximising the potential investment interest and ensuring the operational continuity of the company constitute a pole of government policy. The other point is precisely what you are talking about, and your question, is the protection of workers' rights and the best possible solution to their problems in a balanced, transparent and effective way. By the way, I should like to mention here that the financial offers are expected to be submitted on 27 November and from the information available there seems to be a strong investment interest. The country's increased defence needs and the government's decision to proceed with an important medium-term armaments programme is necessary to combine the upgrading of the Greek defence industries that have been suffering for years from serious problems. A defensive industry in development gives jobs to technical staff, to other companies - suppliers, has partnerships with technological institutions, invests in modern technologies and adds to Gross Domestic Product. A significant part of research and production, therefore, can and must be done in our country. Through continuous dialogue with all the parties involved and, of course, with the workers' representatives, we are making a serious effort to achieve the objective that I imagine is also an objective of all the Parliament's wings that want and expect, firstly, the reopening of the Scaramaga shipyard - I am sure, not only of the Scaramaga shipyards but also of the rest of the shipyards located in our country - which are able to offer the greatest in modernising the fleet of the Navy - but not only this - and also of building and repairing ships in the merchant navy. The second thing we want is the implementation of investments that lead to a gradual increase in jobs both directly at Scaramaga shipyards and indirectly to businesses linked to them. The third is the introduction of new technologies to improve the productivity of workers, which will benefit both workers themselves and the entire national economy. That is our objective and that is what all the actions of the co-legislative ministries are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept that there is a solution to the meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-09-S1-commons.u70	With the agreement of this House at 17.00 noon, the sitting will be closed tomorrow 10 November 2020 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's legislative work, on the agenda that has been distributed.
