ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's 20-2-2020 delegation, PC's minutes of Thursday 20 February 2020 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the PG's minutes on the adoption of the draft law as a whole: ‘Consolidation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Montenegro for Scientific and Technological Cooperation’.]] Before entering the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 24 February 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 521/17-2-2020 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Notopoulou to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "The Greek Tourism Organization (EOT) is led to a shrinking. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Evangelia Lykoulis to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, dated 510/14-2-2020, a topical question by MP Larissa of the Change Movement, Evangelia Lykoulis, to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Strengthening and reopening of the Centre for Environmental Education (CEP) Kissavos - Montenegro as an independent Centre for Environmental Education". 3. The question by No 525/18-2-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Legislations of substitutes for teachers". 4. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on "No provision in the system of appointments of educational staff". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 526/18-2-2020 of the Member of Parliament Drama of the Change Movement Mr.Has Kefalidou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Exemption of injustice, maintenance of the interconnection of Marasleio Municipal School with the 1st Experimental Gymnasium of Plaka". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the questions to be discussed and of the three questions which will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister responsible on account of his participation in a government mission. The questions that will not be discussed, then, are the first question under number 523/17-2-2020 in the second cycle of the MP of Heraklion Crete of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Harry Mamoulakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The European Investment Bank (EIB) is involved in exploiting the extent of Heraklion's "N" airport. Kazantzakis, the fifth under number 524/17-2-2020, the topical question by MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Hussein Zabeck, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The municipal road to the settlement of Kentavros the Municipality of Mykes", as well as the sixth question by number 530/18-2-2020 on the second question by MP B2's West Section of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The granting of school buildings to the Municipality of Ilia". The fourth question under number 518/17-2-2020 will now be discussed in the first cycle of MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Addressing the problems that have arisen in the process of returning the retroactive pensions". The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vessiropoulos, will answer. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is also known to you that in the years of the crisis, the issue of pensions has been delaying even for three and four years. That is why, until the final version was issued, they were still given a temporary pension, which was part of the main. By issuing the normal pension, the beneficiaries and the retrospectives for the period concerned were assigned to them. There have been serious problems in this process. Those pensioners who had the information and made the tax returns and declared this money to the tax office had no problems. But others, even though they had declared them and paid the corresponding tax obligations, they were informed by the tax office in which they were asked to pay them back, at a heavy cost. To many pensioners who had not been informed and who had not even made additional tax declarations, they have been paid a great deal, burdened with all the increments provided for in such cases. The problem is getting bigger, because tax is not separately taxing them for the relevant retrospectives of each year, as it should be, but it adds all the amount of retrospectives to the income of the year of return, so that the income of this year rises fictitiously and have additional charges. Furthermore, there is the following problem: Pensioners who applied for retirement five years before 2019 and who, under the law, have tax liabilities for the remuneration they have received are asked to pay for them and at a charge. The questions, Minister, are whether you intend to take measures, and if, as you have said, you have launched - that is good - an extension of time for those who have not made further declarations by deleting any fines and surcharges they have been imposed in these years. Will debts relating to pensions paid before five years from 2019 be deducted under existing legislation? The sums paid as retroactively from the payment of the pension and collected in one year, but in several years' time, will be shared in proportion to each year, so that the tax burden will be the actual tax burden for each year and not the one imposed on the year of total reimbursement of the retroactives. Taxes resulting from being free from fines, surcharges or any other surcharge and allowing payment by means of a regulation of reasonable monthly instalments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, in your timely question, there is a real problem. In fact, after the cross-checks carried out by the tax administration, the following problem arose: A large proportion of retroactive pensions were collected in 2013 by the beneficiaries but did not include these amounts in their tax declaration. Therefore, after cross-checking, the AIA issued administrative determinations for these cases. I should, of course, point out that the tax administration has made a 20% reduction in total retroactive incomes. This also applies to the provision that provides for a 20% reduction when retrospectives are included to be taxed in one year and are not shared in the years to come. Among the clearings made and a number of tax-setting transactions issued, despite the fact that these incomes had been included by the taxpayers in statements submitted. Of course, such cases will be corrected by the tax administration. However, it is a question of making such mistakes to be corrected by an immediate procedure which will make it easier for the citizen. The will of the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Colleague, is to solve the problem. Of course, taxpayers have the right to appeal. However, it is a matter for us that the state should give a comprehensive solution. And this solution will be given by means of a direct regulation on the regulatory framework of the Code of Conduct. The solution chosen is the introduction of a special administrative procedure for the annulment or modification of a taxing act and for the imposition of a fine by the Office itself. This procedure was lacking in the Code of Tax Procedure, resulting even in obvious errors, which prove to be unnecessarily audited, to require the citizen to bring an action and to charge himself and the Directorate responsible for Dispute Settlement. We are therefore introducing a comprehensive solution to facilitate citizens and we predict that this solution will also be applied in the case of retrospectives. The new procedure will deal with another category of cases. It concerns our fellow citizens who have received their first pension late, in a period later than the one in question. The new procedure will enable the tax administration, in accordance with the provisions already in force, to make corrective action, on the basis of the information to be provided to the competent ILO, in order to ensure that the relevant amounts are taxed on the use in which they actually come and not on the whole of the year in which they were collected. For the exact content of the legislation that we shall be bringing to the vote, I shall refer in detail to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u5	Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u6	It is good that the Ministry is taking steps to resolve a question concerning thousands of pensioners throughout Greece. It is an issue that has made it very difficult for them, and they are being pushed by the burden they have had from this process. We do want to see this legislation coming. You said he'd be here soon. We'll see her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u7	Right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u8	Let's hope it's in this or the next bill. We will see, then, the legislation and we will be placed on whether it is really dealing with all these aspects that we have mentioned in our question, on the basis of the demands made by the pensioners in cases where everyone has, because they are not all the same. We have also said to the question that there are various cases that need to be dealt with. We believe that the legislation will deal with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u9	Mr Minister, since we are talking about this issue, take note of your answer that such things have been sent by the ADP with tragic mistakes. One of the people who took the mistake is me, who came to me that I owed 11,500 euros and finally control it proved that I owed 140 euros. There are many others in my environment. I don't know how these came out. I'll send you the paperwork to see it. I'm saying this to keep it in mind. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, with this legislative initiative we will treat this injustice. Mr Colleagues, the government's intention, as I have told you, is to resolve the problem by means of legislation. The draft provision we are promoting adds a new article, Article 63B, to the Code on Tax Procedure, entitled ‘Court or amendment of an act establishing a tax and a fine’. In accordance with the provisions of this Regulation, the tax administration is now able, either at the request of the taxpayer or at the request of the taxable person, to cancel or amend the act of direct administrative, estimated or corrective determination of a tax or a fine issued by 1-1-2020 after that, if there is a manifest case of total or partial lack of tax liability, arithmetic or computational error or the lack of competence of the institution which issued the act. In this way, there will be corrective intervention and the problems that you have raised in your question will be solved. And all this, of course, without denying the right of the taxpayer to exercise the right to appeal, in accordance with Article 63 of the Code of Taxation. At the same time, the relationship between the new regulation that we are promoting and the appeal, as well as legal action, will be clearly defined so that there is no confusion between legal aid and the provision of legal protection for the taxpayer. In particular, the new special administrative procedure shall not suspend the time limit and shall not prevent the application of the alleged or legal action, but shall not, vice versa, bring an action for appeal or the pending proceedings of the taxpayer in the special administrative procedure. Those new provisions will also include a transitional arrangement for the immediate identification and for tax or fine-fixing operations issued in 2019, for which there is a need for revocation. In fact, it is foreseen that if no alleged or legal action has been brought by the date of the new provisions, the taxpayer may request, at his request, the annulment or amendment of the act, to be submitted until 31-5-2020. If an action has been brought without the deadline for its examination, such an action shall be taken as a request by the taxpayer for the annulment or amendment of the act, shall be forwarded to the competent authority and shall be considered as such. In the event of express or implied rejection of the request for cancellation or modification, the taxpayer shall have the right to appeal for full control of the act or examination of the original appeal. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We are giving this solution in order for the tax administration to have the opportunity and flexibility to make these corrective interventions. In order to correct errors made in the immediate determination or in an administrative, estimated or corrective determination of tax or fine. The Government shall ensure that it provides the necessary legal tools to the tax administration in order to improve its efficiency and the rate of service of the citizens, by doing the principle of good administration. At the same time, we resolve all the issues raised by pensioners' retrospectives. Finally, I would like to inform you that, on our legislative initiative, there will be a significant reduction in the imposed increases on pensioners who have been late in their first pension for their unreported retrospectives, and it is considered that the relevant fines will not be imposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Formats Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Integration of Directive (EU) 2017/1564 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017 on certain permitted uses of certain protected works and other objects of protection under copyright and related rights for the benefit of the blind, blunt and individuals with other problems of reading literature and amending Directive 2001/29/EC on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society." The second question under number 508/13-2-2020 will now be discussed in the first cycle of the Piraeus MP for the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Ragosi to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "If any special guards are involved in a serious incident and the government's refusal to answer relevant questions." The timely question will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Economou. Mr Ragossi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, which you are now representing the Government, is unacceptable - and institutionally and politically and politically - to submit the Civic Opposition publicly and not just once, but twice, questions to the Government and the Government to do what they are not listening to. The Government is not obliged to respond to the constitutionally established right, but in this case its obligation to account, to inform, to inform, to inform, to inform, and, indeed, to issues relating to the core of the functioning of the Greek Police, the Government, the Ministry of Civil Protection. It is not acceptable to force us to table a timely question, so that you will have to come here and give the Greek people information. Although this is a subject that almost all the media wrote about - all they wrote - all they spoke, if they were radio, all showed, if they were television broadcasts - almost all - that we did not adopt this information. Even the questions we have put and the timely question we have put have not adopted any of them. We have expressed our care. We expect to hear what you are going to say, so that you understand that the reason why we are starting these control and criticism procedures - as we have indisputable constitutional and right and obligation to do - is not a malicious attitude to anything that happens or whatever the Mitsotakis Government does. But there's also a limit, and you've been over it a lot. Well, we're still waiting. And now, in my philosophy, you see that we are not adopting any of what has been written. But we expect to hear and, finally, we expect you to do what you have to do: to inform and inform the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there has never been any refusal on the part of the Ministry to clarify the facts of any incident within its sphere of responsibility. On the contrary, the sensitivity and consistency of both the Ministry and the Headquarters of the Hellenic Police on information issues are clear and aware. I shall, however, reply on the substance and on the facts. In the evening hours of Thursday, February 6, 2020, special guards who recently joined the Body of Greek Police serving in the DIA Group who were off duty went to a amusement center in Ghazi. During their stay there there there there there was a horrifying episode with an unknown person for an unknown reason, which is being investigated. During the 2.30 hours of February 7, 2020, special guards left the amusement center. During their departure to Orpheus and Triptlemos Street in Gazis, a group of about ten people, including the above-mentioned unknown person with whom the horror incident had taken place in the bar, attacked them with fists and hiccups. As a result, a special guard was fleeing, while the second was injured in the face and body. In his attempt to escape, his service weapon fell to the ground and under unspecified conditions it fired once and then lost. The detonation caused material damage to the front of a car parked on the scene of the episode. At 7:40 ́ on the same day policemen of the DIA Group went to Orpheus and Triplemos street where they found the lost service weapon. A case-file was then formed against one special guard by the Athens Security Directorate for violating the provisions of the Arms Act and the law on the use of firearms by police, while the prosecutor of criminal prosecution after the briefing left him free to continue the preliminary investigation. The Attica Direct Action Directorate was originally ordered to carry out a sworn administrative examination at the expense of the special guard, which also formed the penal file, while the same sworn administrative examination was subsequently extended to the other special guard, with whom they were together at the bar. In addition, both written explanations were requested in order to take into account whether or not the administrative measure of availability was taken into account. Finally, he was informed by the Hellenic Police Headquarters Department of the Hellenic Police Headquarters the Independent Administrative Authority "Citizens' Counselor". These are the facts you are asking to be informed with your question. In any case, this is an incident which is not related to the service activity, but which has occurred outside of service and at private times of these two new special guards.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u15	Mr Ragossi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u16	It is very serious what you said earlier, Mr Secretary-General. And it is perfectly understandable why the Mitsotakis Government has attempted to hide this very serious incident about the safety of those who have been involved, of course, and of all citizens. Now we understand very well because we issued two announcements and the ministry, the political leadership, the government was silent. Because what he was going to say for days, since this very serious incident occurred, without any doubt, exposes the government in an irreparable manner, Mr Secretary. And they expose the government multiples. And before I say the most important thing, I will only make one point: you know much better than I personally, because you had the honour to finance the Greek Police Chief, that for Greek and Greek police officers there is a code of conduct that explicitly defines their obligations and duties, not only when they are inside the service but also when they are outside it. And when you described us, as you describe, all the things that have happened, one is the conclusion: it is very serious, the fact is very serious and your political responsibility is enormous. Why, Mr. Undersecretary? Why, Minister, you didn't come here and send Mr. Economou? And why, Mr. Mitsotakis? For you politically revived these failed and dangerous institutions, such as the institution of special guards. Why is the institution of special guards dangerous? Why was it abolished by the Greek Police? Because in fact it is a rousphetological 'rough' of power, which you do not like to hear, which you have revived. You took the right of thousands of children who dreamed of being hired to the Greek Police through the Greek-Greek exams and by antagonistic procedure, when he took over Mr.Mitsotakis Prime Minister, you hired anxiocratic and Rusphetologically a thousand five hundred special guards. And why did you hire them? Because they are selected by a three-member committee, the two of which are not PPA members. These recruitments are not subject to the AACC. They do not fall within the impartial and objective regime that all children who dream they will be able to enter the Greek Police, which is the status of pan-Hellenic exams. And the result of all this, after you put them on the street - because you wanted to have two, three months of training, and not for years that Greek or Greek policeman has to do, you send them to the street and keep the guns and go to the bars. Is that what you told us a moment ago? Did you tell us that he had his service gun and had gone for fun in the bars where the children of the Greek people are going to have fun, Mr. Economou? And has none of you given up on this situation? You are exclusively very serious politically responsible for what has happened, because you have hired a thousand five hundred of them and you have them and circulate between our children, between all Greeks and Greeks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One last thing, Mr President. I'm done with this. What has been happening in the country lately is unprecedented for a favoured state and for a rule of law. It is the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, who has chosen, as a major member of his government, a minister who is currently controlled by Greek justice. Of course, he has, like all of us, the presumption of innocence. Mr Georgiadis cannot respond, however, as you are obliged to do, to these public blackmails and to the public threats he has put off this morning, once again, at the expense of the Greek Police, at the expense of the Ministry of Civil Protection. I do not know what Mrs Tulupaki will do after the public blackmail and the public threats of Mr Georgiadis. But this is no longer the case. That's as far as it goes. Greece will not become a Sicilian state.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Ragosi, finish. This has nothing to do with your question. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor on the question about your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u18	It is worth taking into account a reality. The Greek Police are currently serving about fifty - five thousand people. It's a multipurpose body. It is perfectly natural that there are people with various personality features, reactions and psycho-composition. The education they receive, the environment that creates the institutional framework of the body, the experiences gained in their daily lives in the performance of their duties, homogenize and highly shape their functionality, both within the body and in relation to their social behaviour. We cannot, however, remove divergent or even violating behaviours, both in relation to the performance of their duties and beyond in their private life. That is why there is a strict disciplinary framework for sanctions and very structured procedures to monitor and punish these behaviours. I think the incidents with divergent behaviour are individual and the police disciplinary framework is sufficient to deal with it. In this case, these are special guards who have recently joined the police force. The circumstances are being scrupulously investigated and there will be the findings and disciplinary responsibilities that arise, both from the EES and from the principle of the Citizens' Co-rapporteur. But let me tell you this as far as the special guards are concerned, it is an institution which is renowned to the citizen's conscience.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u19	We saw it the other day how far he was!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u20	The DIA Groups and their contribution to society are well known...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u21	Let the DIA team go. We are not talking about the DIA Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u22	Minister, for the Greek police.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u23	We're talking about the special guards who came in after the elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u24	Please...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u25	The DIA teams, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u26	With a service gun he went to the discotheque!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Ragossi, you said so!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u28	The DIA Groups are managed exclusively by special guards. As far as the issue of anxiocratic intake is concerned, I am sure you have incorrect information, because they have been hired under full transparency, with strict moleculosis, as specified...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u29	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u30	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u31	But...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Ragossi, you don't know the procedure. There's nothing in the Minutes that you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u33	It's all the evidence at your disposal. I never...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u34	But he doesn't answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u35	But you don't let him answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u36	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u37	In your opinion. In the State Secretary's view, that is his view.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u38	I tell you as a State Secretary and in my capacity as Honorary Chief of the Hellenic Police, and they are all at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u39	Your Honor, 30 seconds, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u40	No, Mr. Ragosi, you can't have him. You know that. You're an old colleague. There is no MEP's tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u41	He's got three members...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Ragossi, I'm sorry! Don't write anything in the Minutes than Mr. Ragus says! Close, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u43	They are strictly defined as qualifications and molecules and do not have any other kind of interference. However, I am absolutely certain of your confidence in the institutional functioning of the Hellenic Police, Mr Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u44	We move to the third with number 513/17-2-201720 on the first-round question of the Corfu MP of the Change Movement Mr.Dimitrios Biagi to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Unless criteria, the abolition of the Lefkimi and Achilles Police Departments". Mr. Comrade, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Undersecretary, my question relates to the Prefecture of Corfu, the prefecture of which I am elected and which has more than a hundred thousand inhabitants, the forty thousand of whom live in the city of Corfu and the remaining seventy thousand live in the region. Corfu Prefecture is a leading tourist factor, Mr. Undersecretary. In the summer months, the population is tripling, with the need for policing and security rapidly appearing. As long as I tell you that last year more than two million tourists visited the island of Corfu. In addition, the strategic geographical location of the island makes it a gateway to the country and to the Schengen territory, as it also borders Italy and Albania, which further strengthens the expansion of policing. In addition, organising international meetings and conferences of sports and cultural events, the continuing arrival of high people on the island requires increased power in the region. The abolition of the already subordinated police departments of Lefkada and Achilles and the forthcoming merger in one, in Argentines, directly jeopardises the general sense of security for citizens. Ask, Minister, if you intend to revoke the decision on the merger of the police departments of Achilles and Lefkimia, taking into account geographical, population, operational criteria and, secondly, whether the intentions of the Ministry are to strengthen and support the police departments of Corfu with the necessary equipment and the required human resources. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u46	The abolition of the Achilles and Lefkiman Police Departments and their merger in a police department in southern Corfu, based in Argyrades, is part of a more general redesign to improve the structure and effectiveness of the Greek Police Regional Services, which took place in 2017. According to this reorder for the Corfu Police Department, the following police services are to be operated: Security Department of Corfu, Police Department of Corfu, Tourism Police Department of Corfu, Airport Department of Corfu, Police Department of Paxon, Police Department of Northern Corfu, Police Department of South Corfu, Police Department of Paleokrates and Border Guard Department of Corfu. Also, the above services should be added to the Ereikos and Othon Police Stations, which are administratively owned by the North Corfu Police Department. Regarding the human potential of the Police Department of Corfu, its organic power provides for four hundred nineteen people, while today there are three hundred seventy nineteen policemen, i.e. staffing reach 90%. However, for the more effective provision of services, the Hellenic Police Headquarters in the framework of the reinforcement of police services during the summer season will strengthen the Police Department of Corfu Airports in addition to the pedigree police officers and other police personnel from police officers to police officers' ranks up to police officer II. Regarding logistic equipment, the Corfu Department currently has a total of ten and eight vehicles, of which twenty-five are immobilised, while in the last six months we have taken care of it and strengthened it with two SUV passenger cars and a nine-seat passenger vehicle. In addition, soon, two SUV passenger cars, eight passenger cars, as well as another staff transport vehicle will be supplied via the NRV. Finally, it should be noted that in the last six months, several equipment and equipment, such as helmets and motorcycle costumes, bulletproof vests, necklaces, etc., have been provided to meet the management's operational needs. A.T.A. Achilles there are twenty-one people and they serve twenty-three and respectively for the A.T. Nimexe are anticipated nineteen and serve ten eight. However, these services are under-represented without any substantial operational capacity, bearing in mind that more than half of the staff are employed by the maintenance of buildings and secretarial support, and that if they are absent due to permits for sickness, training, etc. So we have reached this point, despite the forty-five policemen serving there, not to take any patrol and not to contribute to the instability of the sense of security for the people. With the new police service in southern Corfu, a significant number of police officers will be saved from purposes and secretaries, who will carry out daily on-board patrols separating the area in two areas to act deterrently and repressively whenever required. However, I would like to inform you that the specific merger and operation of the South Corfu Police Department has not been completed so far because it has not been completed, and that is why the former Achilles and Lefkimia Police Departments are still in operation. In conclusion, I would like you to bear in mind that for the planned merger of these police departments. They advocate additional reasons such as, for example, economics. Today for the rent of A.T.A. Nimexe is paid EUR 7,220 for both the A.T. Achilles 10,300 euros a year. All this money is saved by the merger and transfer to the South Corfu Police Department in a building that is donated for the use of the Greek Police by the Agricultural Oil Producer Cooperative Argyrads. Geographical reasons also argue for this merger, when you consider that the distance of Lefkada from the Argoras is just 12 km, while Achilles is 10 km away from Corfu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u47	How much did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u48	Twelve.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u49	From Lefkimmi. Corfu?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u50	From Achilles ten kilometers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u51	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, Minister, my presence here today, aware that this combination of the two police departments has not been achieved, is intended to bring you once again the anxiety of local society. Once again it turns out that the governments at Athens level come to plan and decide for the people of the region without the people of the region. So you are coming today and you are insisting on a decision that has been taken for many years. And all these years, the local society and the institutions of Corfu have shown that they are across from this point of view, not against it to be across but by substantiating to you that this logic will not be effective. So I say to you that the road network of Corfu, Mr. Undersecretary, is very bad, which means that, on the one hand, the area to be called to police the new police station will have a road length of over 40 km, which has an upwards and a descent and which, as I have said, is more than two million visitors in the summer. It's a route that a police car to go from one side to the other would want over an hour and a half. And that's not what anyone does, it's evidence and they're conclusions of everyday logic. It is no accident, Minister, that contrary to this logic is the former single municipality of Corfu in a unanimous resolution notified to the previous political authority, the current Municipality of Central Corfu, the current municipality of South Corfu, the Bar Association of Corfu, the Chamber of Commerce of Corfu, the Police Association of Corfu. To all of these, Mr Secretary - it is not accidental - we see the agony in their eyes about the decision you are going to make. The simplest thing you'll be able to tell you is that you take the police station out of Lefkimmi when in Lefkimmi there is the second gateway to Corfu. It is a port in which only from its position and from its use as a port must be a police department, in addition to the use that exists - and you know it very well - of the summer months from the tourist product addressed to Lefkimi, Corfu. And you once again take the lead, without putting some logics that have one after another and making decisions - for whom? - for the financial cost. And look at it once again, because you're getting caught indisputably at the Ministry, Mr. Secretary, and it's not about you, it's about all the governments that've been through and they're taking such measures that are colored Memorandum. Local communities are ready, they are ready for the operators of Corfu - whether it is called a municipality of the North or a municipality of central Corfu - to speak with you and see how you can overcome the question of housing the police departments. They're ready, Mr. Undersecretary! However, you have come here today to tell us the possibilities and the problem with rents. Our anxiety is - and I am now going to bring you the agony of the Corfus - not for the rents but for the concern of the Corfu people for security. It is a precondition for the safety of the tourist product that Corfu has, Mr. Deputy Minister, and when Corfu accepts two million tourists annually, you must understand the necessity that exists, so that we do not enter another logic and see what is the comparison - if you like - and the organogram of the Police Directorate of Corfu with that of Epirus, to see what is the figure envisaged against a hundred and sixty thousand inhabitants and who is Corfu with a hundred and twenty thousand inhabitants. One organogram carries more than a thousand two hundred and the organogram of Corfu bears four hundred fifty. The gaps in Corfu are twice and twice as high as the nearby counties, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Biagi, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u54	Yes, Mr President, allow me. All this, the concern of the people is here - I will hand them over to the Minutes shortly - is a multitude of resolutions, a multitude, and I mention it again. For example, I told you that the district, the municipalities, the agencies, the lawyers, the police, everyone...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Biagi, I can't give you any more time. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u56	Allow me, Mr President, in my history I have been very brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u57	This is where I left you a minute and a half more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u58	Yes, Mr President, thank you very much. Mr. Undersecretary, it's the agony of the Corfus, it's the anguish of all those who work with tourism to be safe in Corfu. You need to see it again. You can call your ministry all the agencies in order to choose with them. The agencies are ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Biagi, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u61	It's obvious you have another point of view, the Ministry has another point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u62	I am trying to convince myself, not to impose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u63	Minister, on the additional information from my colleague, if you have anything to add, here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u64	I would like to assure you that the reorganisation of the police services is carried out in order to achieve as rational and effective a use of existing human resources and logistics and to achieve the best possible results. Reduced recruitment in recent years, due to the economic crisis, the forced spread of police forces across the country to tackle the immigration problem, but also the withdrawal of a significant number of staff, due to retirement, leads to the undeniable need to go with the existing forces and to lead to more efficient schemes. In recent times a new policing plan has been designed and implemented throughout the country, based on the apparent presence of police forces, as well as targeted police operations to deal with crime. We have already recruited five hundred new special guards, who have carried out fighting services in Attica and are already on the way, while at the same time decommissioning a significant number of police officers from the guarding of officials and officials. At the same time, four hundred new border guards are scheduled to be recruited, which will be placed in Evros by the end of May, as well as the direct recruitment of other eight hundred to the islands of the northeast Aegean. In this context, a significant number of policemen will be released from these areas who can be made available to police officers with serious crime problems. But at this point, I would like to ask, in view of the start of the tourist season, that millions of tourists will come to our country, not to cultivate a climate of fornication. Especially with regard to Corfu, crime indicators show that the island is particularly safe. I quote some figures: All in 2019 we had a homicide, compared with three in 2018, recording a 66% reduction. The burglaries in houses, shops, cars etc. decreased in 2019 by 25% compared to 2018. Same happened with the car theft. A robbery occurred all over the island in 2019. We had the same in 2018. There is still a major problem with drug trafficking, due to its neighbourliness with Albania. But the police staff of Corfu Security Sub-Service works zealously, professionally, has important experience, reports major successes every year in confiscation of large quantities of drugs and the arrest of traffickers. Regarding the area of Kavos in southern Corfu, we all know the problems that exist in the area due to the presence of a large number of young tourists during the summer months. Last year, with a plan of apparent police presence, in combination with nearly tripling the number of police in the region, we managed to avoid any particular problems, imposing order and security. And I would like to assure you that this year is a special operational plan, ahead of the tourist season, with particular care, both for Corfu and the Ionian islands as a whole and that you can be absolutely certain that it will be the best possible for us, so that the tourist season will also be in a climate of normality. The airport will also be strengthened, and in any case, we will maintain this picture, that Greece is one of the most secure destinations in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u65	Good. We move to the fifth under number 528/18-2-2020 on the top of a first question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Barea metals at the seabed of the port of Ermoupolis". The Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Economou, will answer. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, I personally connect with Syros enough because I've lived there for six years. The subject of the question was heard by Kathimerini in an article on February 5, which publishes the results of the survey of the 'Aegean Rebreath'. The results are basically from the ELECT, which analyzed a mixture of sediment, produced by Aegean Rebreath, which accidentally collected it, as her job was to collect the plastics, because she was moving the microplastics in relation to the festival "AnimaSyros", which was organized those days in Syros. The point is, they found ten heavy metals in terrible excesses. In chromium was 189 ppm instead of 72 ppm, zinc 228 ppm instead of 95 ppm, lead 135 ppm instead of 19 ppm, cadmium 0,523 ppm instead of 0,17 ppm. From what the article says, it may be responsible for watering, which, if the article says correctly, except in breach of environmental approval, is using the young people at the moment. Another suspect learns that it may be the remains of sands, which are stacked in the port. We want you to be a little clear about what measures you take, because it's a matter of public health. Previously, the sandstorm has also been accused of carcinogenicity in Syros. There's got to be an end to this case. We also want you to tell us how to apply the operating conditions of the Youth, what measures you will take to rehabilitate and who will pay the cost of restoration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u67	You have the floor, Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. The issue, which you are addressing, is very important and we are interested not only in Syros, but also in every other region of Greece, where such problems occur. I would also remind you of the case of Andros, where we had been internationally dispersed with what had been found at the bottom of the port - if I remember correctly - or in the vicinity. Already, of course, they have been cleansed in the area, in cooperation with local volunteers and organisations. We will do the same where we have substantiated problems. In order to go to the case of Syros, the joint organization you mentioned did indeed, among other things, take a sediment sample, which it promoted to the PPER, which showed that there were signs of high prices of heavy metals. That's a reality. What does this one sample mean? As far as we have been informed by our services as well as by the South Aegean Region, which also has a competent service, one sample is not representative, so we cannot draw any conclusions, first of all, as to whether there is a substantial pollution of heavy metals at the bottom of the port of Syros. It is a small sign, but it is not proof that there is a real problem. It's a notebook. A second problem is that the prices obtained in this sample are high, but there are currently no institutionalized limits for heavy metals on the bottoms, so that we can say that these high prices exceed some limits and therefore some specific action is needed by the competent authorities. What is necessary is to have a more documented picture of what is happening at the bottom of the port. We have contacted the PPE, which will propose to the South Aegean Region that a systematic study be carried out with a large number of samples on the bottom and surface of the water, to see what heavy metals or other toxic or more problematic pollutants are present - if there are - in the area, so that - because of the large number of samples - we can also identify the possible origin of these potentially heavy metals or other problematic substances. This will happen because it is not enough to identify the problem. In order to find out who is accountable for the problem and to account for what is actually provided for in the legislation, you must know that it is a specific one. In the port of Syros there are too many activities, which, possibly, could lead to such situations. We hope that, with the study carried out by the PPE, which I have told you, we can have a picture of both pollution and its origin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u69	Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, you have reported more possible you have gone. I would be very interested to be more detailed about what the possible sources of these huge excesses may be from the average price. We do not have the risk limits as I know, but we have the average values. And the excesses are huge. So there is a need for the study to be carried out relatively immediately, which you are referring to. We should also look at the following: there was a complaint that there was a hydroblast and that it does not fall under the environmental conditions. Do you agree? Does it fall into the environmental conditions you've given Neorio the hydrophoresis? And if there's a breach of environmental conditions, what measures will you take? Have there been any checks on how Neorio works right now? It is very critical, because there is a delicate issue there. Because it employs too many workers in Neorio, there is a briefing on everything that is happening there, a factual factual that at the moment has cost the health of the people of Ermupolis enough. Obviously, we want to protect jobs, but we want this Neorio to work properly. In case it does not work, take the necessary measures to function on the basis of the specifications.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u71	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u72	Thank you. It must function properly on the basis of the specifications. At the moment we have no proof or serious evidence that it does not work properly on the basis of the specifications. There are occasional checks. They haven't identified any problems for the moment. In cases where problems have been identified in the past, there have also been corresponding actions, but not something that leads to the conclusion that there is a problem with heavy metals, I mean from past controls. There will be re-checks and, at the same time, the study carried out by the PPE, which will be, as I said, with multiple sampling and in detail, I hope that it will be possible to identify not only whether there is a problem but also where it comes from. Until then, we'll re-check with the environmental inspectors. For the time being, no hydroblasting problem has been detected. If you have any more specific information, we would obviously like you to make it available to us to act accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u73	We move on to the discussion of the fourth question under number 529/18-2-2020 on the second question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Renewing the suspension of construction permits for high buildings south of the Acropolis'. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. The issue, Mr Secretary, is very well known because of your cognitive scope, as a university professor, but also because of your role. They've suddenly started to blow out too high buildings, which, if you like, offend the Acropolis Rock in the Acropolis area. It's the famous hotel. The complaints made, as well as a great mobilisation of the citizens, led the previous government on March 4, 2019 to make a suspension of building permits in order to consider the matter. And the two building permits issued with the overriding buildings were actually cancelled in the Council of State by two distinct decisions, so now it is the state's responsibility to take action on the phenomenon. The question is: Because it is almost one year in which building permits are suspended, will you renew the suspension? I would like a commitment on this issue. Also, what measures will you take to change the construction factors in the area? The point is that, apart from what has been the case so far, the provisions you have brought for the Greek where it is allowed, baptizing the "special architects", some buildings over thirty-two meters, i.e. having the skyscrapers, even such a building could theoretically be "float" in this area. All these measures are very urgent. I think the Athenians' eyes are on their way to the government. The previous one took a measure. We also expect your follow-up or, if you like, make the measure substantial and permanent.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u75	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. As you said - I think you mentioned it - a committee was set up which would have to come up with a conclusion to deal with the problem. We are in 'alike' at the moment, that is, the committee has almost come to an end and we are discussing the final decision with the Ministry of Culture and the Municipality of Athens. Before the end of the suspension, there will be legislation specifying new heights, absolutely without being able to be exceeded by a reasonable escalation, with criteria for both the distance from the Acropolis and the slope of the ground. That's gonna happen right away. If it takes a month to suspend if the legislative procedure is not completed, we will give it. I do not think it will be necessary, but in any case, we commit ourselves, of course, to doing so. But this will be the case. This legislation concerns this issue, heights, and they are by law. In the near future there will be a presidential decree, which will go ahead with the regulation of other issues relating to building in the Acropolis region. In addition to heights there are the issues of build-up factors, there are the issues of uses. These are not being handled now. In any case, it was not such a general subject on the agenda of this working party. But we will also see them in the near future - but not in the next month - there will also be a presidential decree dealing with such matters, if necessary. I would also like to say that the programme of Local Spatial Plans will be launched - I hope - shortly. Soon I'll mention why it hasn't started yet. It should have started for two, three months. Within these Local Spatial Plans there will also be an update of the Athens General Urban Plan, through which these issues can also be dealt with not only in this region, but generally around the Acropolis and other parts of the city with similar features. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u77	Mr Arseni, I would also like to know your view of the two multi-storey houses on the Dionysius Areopagiti, because they are the ones that cut the view to the Acropolis from the Acropolis Museum! If you want to tell me, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u78	Sure. I'd love to. If you refer to the one which is maintained building, obviously I think it should be maintained, because I think there is a succession. There is our architectural history, which is ancient, but there is the younger one of the last two hundred years. So, in the part where the old building is, I think it should be maintained.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u79	So you're in favour of staying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u80	The part that's old, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u81	What old thing? It's two apartment houses.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u82	They are building blocks of the beginning of the last century, but, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u83	Good. We'll talk about it another time in private.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u84	I'd love to. With Karamanlis the oldest and contributory we have so much destroyed the history of our cities, even of our villages, where the few that we have left, especially in the history of the Acropolis and other monuments, we must preserve them. I am referring again to historical buildings. Minister, I would like you, if you can, to be clearer. We move towards a limit of seventeen and a half meters, which is the proposal in general both of the citizens and the "Greek Environment and Culture Society" and all the actors involved, which, if you like, is currently the dominant height in the building blocks. Also, if you want, be clearer on what other measures this decision will describe, so that we too know where we are going to do parliamentary control, that it is moving in the right direction and that we do not need to press any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u85	Before giving the floor to the Minister, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory of forty-five students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Experimental Gymnasium of Thessaloniki. Welcome to the House and Athens. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. At the moment, I will not go into specific figures, because, as I have said, we are in a process of final consultation with the relevant bodies. We don't have the final sizes. But very quickly, as I have said, legislation will be tabled and there will be consultation before the law is passed, to which this legislation will exist. We will see these in the next fortnight, so we will have every opportunity to discuss these regulations. The regulations only concern heights at the moment. They do not enter other town sizes or characteristics such as land uses. It was not the subject of the committee set up by the previous government to carry out such a wider investigation, and it would not be easy, through only one committee, to deal more generally with issues which want another type of analysis to reach a conclusion. However, I told you that the President-in-Office of the Council, which will be provided for in legislation and will be promoted later, when we have the full picture, but also with the Local Spatial Plan - which will again be, these two may go together or precede the autonomous presidential decree - will address all the urban issues of the region, and land use, factors and other dimensions of the issue. Just make one last point. In the area there are buildings that have varying heights and have been legally built. The lawful building obviously can't be demolished when it's legal. The owners followed the legal procedures, had confidence in the state that anticipated these heights and thus followed what was foreseen. Illegal issues are another story. But the legal buildings first cannot be dealt with in retrospect.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u87	Are you referring to the two hotels?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u88	To the extent that they are legal, they remain. I think the President, too, has already asked you what you think of the existing buildings.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u89	I said about two specific apartment houses, which had been debated a great deal when the Acropolis Museum was being built, because they cut off the museum's visual continuity with the main monument.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u90	Yeah. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u91	It's a bitter story, that is, if they start legally and if they end up legally. Because many times - you know - it starts a building illegally and then, at some point, it is legalized.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u92	In this case, there are no arbitrary arrangements. They've started right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u93	I'm not talking about what you and Mr Arseni talked about.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u94	So to what is legal, in principle there is nothing to be done. That's right, first of all, there's nothing we can do. First of all, something can be done, that is, you can expropriate the last two floors - for example - and demolish them. But that's another conversation. If such measures exist - not just in the region - we will see them in the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u95	We move forward with the first 3115/9-1-2020 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP II Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Direct need for the adoption of the Presidential Award". I was a young man, and I grew old with worthy, Mr. Famele. Here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u96	That is the case, Mr President. Good morning, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, last week I objected to the Bureau on the process of answering questions from the Ministry of the Environment. The problem continues without the State Secretary being responsible. Mr. Hatzidakis is not coming to answer questions from his authority. The Minister responsible for planning and town planning does not have responsibility for the natural environment, and this question is addressed to the natural environment. I know his specialty in spatial planning, but it is important that we do not confuse the presiding decrees with scientific expertise, with the thematic field and the political material from which they are addressed. It is not about him, I just think, Minister, that this must be stopped. I say this, Mr President, and I am compelled to inform the Chair, because of the seventeen questions we have asked in the last seven months, eight months, seven questions have been made timely because they have not been answered within the timeframe required, six have remained unanswered and three - four have been answered late. We cannot act as parliamentarians if the Ministry of the Environment does not respect parliamentary procedures. All the rest - you know - then they'll come second. So the question was tabled on 9 January. He didn't answer, so he's coming here. It must be discussed in plenary. Our country has been lacking in the institutional framework for the protection of regions with special natural capital over time. Many ministerial decisions fell on the Council of State because they did not have the force of the Presidential Decree. We, in order to solve this problem - you know, Mr Secretary-General - from the ESRB found 17.5m euros and today across Greece special environmental studies are being prepared for an up-to-date and complete NATURA list submitted to the European Union on 15 December 2017, and we also met our environmental and national obligations. There will be, therefore, in every protected area a management plan and a presidential decree, because the President will be right to say, 'we are waiting for a void'. In particularly sensitive areas such as Olympus, Pambotida, Awesome - and I refer to all over the region, from Kalochori to Kitros Pieria, and to the northern border of the country - we have chosen the Presidential Decree of Acquisition to be one of the priority projects. So, in July 2018, we created a presidential decree, started the consultation, with two ministerial decisions on the one hand suspending building permits and on the other hand on the other hand on the other hand on a two-year extension of protection by Ministerial Decision limiting the case law, which ends, however, in August 2020. There was a large consultation conference on 10 September and on 3 April we gave the respective agency in writing - I personally - the mandate of the final draft Presidential Decree to proceed with the legislative process. I know, because I was in the respective remit, that in June 2019 the Presidential Decree was in the Legal Service. So any policy, personal, etc. was over. I say this to you, Mr Secretary, because at the consultation conference we held, a lot of dormant has been done - let me say this - a lot of discussion, that the area is at risk from protection, and finally all the proposals from local players have been accepted in the context of protection. There is a way, in other words, to resolve the issues of environmental development and protection. So because there is a need to comply with European legislation and why, as long as this loose end is extended, I fear you may not finish in August - but I want you to finish by August, because I think it is an ongoing national obligation - we must ask you this question and ask you two simple things: first, when will the Minister sign the plan that will go to the Council of State? And, secondly, is there a reason why delays are being created? Have various discussions started to be made for the service of peers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u97	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start with the point you raised at the beginning. The fact is that during the previous government, an unpleasant tradition of non-response was formed, no ministers were present in this parliamentary procedure. I would remind you that there have been cases where there were no government representatives. Today a government representative always comes. The responsibility of the Ministries and the Government is collective. It is therefore a completely different phenomenon for there to be a State Secretary of this Ministry and for the ministers to be absent. As for the delays in answering the written questions, you know that the object of the Ministry, especially on environmental issues, is of great interest. There is a very large number of questions that come and that necessarily leads to some delays. This does not mean, however, that the remaining six and seven will not be answered in the near future. Let's go to that particular matter. The consultation on the presidential decree of Axis ended - if I remember correctly - at the beginning of September 2018. It was promoted to the draft Presidential Decree just before the elections. It is true that, shortly before the elections, there has been a very strong activity in the Ministry. Among these actions at the time, it was also the promotion of this draft Presidential Decree. There is no reason to delay almost eight months from the end of consultation until the mandate of the draft Presidential Decree. It would be absolutely possible to proceed with the process of forming the final project much faster. So that was a long delay. From that point on, as you know, why you have done to the Ministry, the legislation is also being permanently delayed, not only today, by the drafting of the decrees. I found a few centimeters left on the shelf or the legislative for one, two, three years. I think I've signed about a hundred presidential decrees, papyrus. We'll soon get some numbers to get a clear picture. In any case, the legal treatment of the Presidential Decree was completed by the legislature. The presidential decree is currently in the process of collecting signatures and will therefore be signed by Mr. Hatzidakis and sent to the S.E. and then to the President of the Republic. We hope and believe that the August deadline will not be exceeded, that we will have the President-in-Office's decree beforehand. It's perfectly possible. If we do not have it, however, we will give a small extension so that the area does not remain without protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, too. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, I also call for your parliamentary experience and your role. Do you think it is possible to blame the opposition or the previous government for not answering the questions? Minister, it's a comedian thing you said. So you used as a benchmark whether there was a Minister of the previous government in parliamentary control in the past as to whether you would carry out your parliamentary duties? That's what you said, Mr. Secretary, and please read the Minutes to be sure. As regards the issue of the delay you have put, because I am from the region and I represent the region and I am honoured with that, it is indeed an honour to represent this region, but also because I have worked with people, sixteen years, the PASOK and the New Democracy governments have not been able to make a presidential decree on merit. We drafted it, although we at the same time found the resources for all the specific environmental studies - which the PASOK and the New Democracy have not been able to do for so many years - and we needed from the end of the consultation in September to April six months to incorporate the proposals of operators and citizens. So, did you tell us a little while ago that it wasn't very important to wait six months? Sixteen years have passed without the previous governments and we six months to listen to the opinion of the citizen and the institution? Yes, Mr Economou, we want to hear the opinions of the bodies, we want to consult and we can afford to go with proposals to consultation, not as you went for example in western Macedonia without any proposal to announce the degreasing, to make a communication bubble or as you did last week a non paper by devaluing the work of operators throughout Greece, the work of nature protection bodies and the natural environment of Greece. Why, Mr. Economou? Do you want to put on the back door any poster and any Golden Boys to get the licenses out of the jungle, as we have learned that he wants a team to be held in the presidential decree of Axis? Be careful, Mr. Economou, to be precise. It has a draft Presidential Decree. We know, because we have recommended it, what a draft Presidential Decree there is. If the government is preparing to issue a draft presidential decree other than by leaving illegal activities within the National Park of Axis, you should know that we will inform society of what counterfeiting takes place behind its back. As if there is also a delay, as you unfortunately have let it be understood and do not go along with it, and you do not take the political initiative to force the services and we with parliamentary control have done so in order to get everyone's work done properly, so that our national obligation is properly made, so that we do not have a new conviction, then you will have political responsibility. It doesn't need any more time. Legislative - you are right - the text has been written in April and in June, we have made an intervention in this area to complete this process and you must also, eight months have passed, do something and not just the apprentices. Don't put it all on SYRIZA. It is boring beyond being truly disgraceful to the parliamentary procedure. So, what we want is for you to stop deceiving the institutions, for all of us to protect the natural environment of the country together, let specific environmental studies be completed and for them to come to a presidential order everywhere in Greece, because we hear various rumours that these too want to be delayed and move on to the rapid adoption of the presidential decree of Aristotle. When it comes out, Mr. Secretary, I will be the first to applaud the work of your own government, because there is continuity in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u101	Since you have invoked me, Mr Famele, with regard to the parliamentary procedure, I mean, there is no comparison of the improvement now with the previous period, which, in my view, was the good President, Mr Voutsis. It was around 35% of the answering topical questions, now over 75%. And, of course, it wasn't, I know you, and I know your kindness, no peak to Mr. Economou. You said why the Minister, who is always present in the House, does not come. Here, Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u102	Thank you. Because the general theme of the answers was retabled, I never said that, because during the SYRIZA period answers had been cancelled to timely questions, that is an excuse for us. I said the opposite. I said we always come. There has been no case of cancellation of the debate due to the absence of a government representative. So I said something different. That's what I said. That must have been written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u103	Since the seventeen written questions were not answered correctly. No written responses.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u104	I referred to the topical and urgent subjects of major importance. Secondly, the Minister is absent abroad because there are important obligations to which he must be present. I can perfectly answer these issues, I have no problem and I have no scientific and political problem. I shall return to the issue of Axis first of all. The nine months after the end of the consultation until the draft Presidential Decree was sent to the legislature - not in April - was completely unnecessary and there was no reason for it. It's not a question of desecration of consultation. The consultation took place. From there on, the incorporation of the conclusions of the consultation into such a plan takes two months. I've done it many times and I know it. There was no reason, instead of two months, to do eight or nine, for those who needed it. The reason why he finally came out just before the election, that thing I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u105	That is why I wrote a letter in April.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u106	In any case, this is the answer to the specific question you raised. Secondly, there is currently no question of us intervening in the services to speed up. As I have already said, the President-in-Office of the Council is in the process of collecting signatures from the ministers. We therefore believe that, before August, we will also have the Presidential Decree on Protection. I would like to say two things about the programme of specific environmental studies. We have recognised the positive actions of the previous government both in this programme and in other issues. At times I have also recognised positive actions on the issue of local spatial plans. Maybe I'm in a hurry. In any case, where we can recognise and where there is something we recognise. In the case of special environmental studies, the initiative was indeed right. You found the money. You started the project. You might have started it a little late. But there were some problems in the work. A first problem is that there was no and to date a code of land use applied in the NATURA areas and generally in nature protection areas. This means that all specific environmental studies, which have been established to date, use a terminology that is homogeneous, describe it in different ways and in a way that is not clear to what corresponds to the institutionalised land use, and to the operating licences and responsibilities of various services which are required to implement these special presidential decrees. The lack of this code is a very serious technical problem, which very much reduces the effectiveness of specific environmental studies and studies on nature protection. That's a huge problem! Many environmental organizations have pointed this out, and I am also aware of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u107	No, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u108	If you don't have clear definitions of what land uses each scholar puts, each scholar uses the term he thinks of the same thing. For the same thing seven scholars use seven different terms, resulting in a chaos and inability to implement the special environmental study. So that was a problem that we will solve immediately. There will be immediate answers from the Minister on this matter. And a concrete initiative, not just answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u109	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u110	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute or so. On the issue of management bodies, we all know that management bodies did not function satisfactorily for many reasons, including substation, fragmentation and lack of resources. Immediately there will be legislation which creates a central system for management bodies, with local nodes and with increased resources. I do not want to go any further for reasons of time and why they will be announced in the very near future by the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the upper Western theory of nine students and students and two of their educational attendants from the 4th Megalopolis Municipal School. The House welcomes you Welcome to the House and Athens! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move on to the next and final cycle of questions, to which will be answered by the Deputy Minister Vassilis Kontozamanis. First we will discuss the first under number 511/17-2-2020 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Mr Marios Salma, on the subject: ‘Illegal functioning of private ambulances’. Here we go, 'Kramer vs Kramer'. Here, Mr Salma, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. In addressing the Minister for Health, I would like to stress that the subject of my current topical question is very important. It is not only a matter based on a non-legislative basis, so it operates illegally, but it is also a matter that can pose a risk to the way thousands of patients are moved to the country. It's not a problem your own term created - you found it, it's a long time - but it's time to solve it. Because this government came here to solve the sufferings of previous years, many of which in the past five years had not even been involved in the relevant ministers. Therefore, Mr President, we have dozens of private ambulances licensed in private clinics, in artificial kidney and haemodialysis centres, in diagnostic centres, in nursing homes, and which have been given to private individuals to carry out travel and stays from and to private and public hospitals. This scourge is a rule. Today, if a patient wants to leave a hospital in Athens to go to his home, the EAW does not actually undertake this obligation and all this is done with these private ambulances, which are not all licensed to do this mission. Therefore, because, Minister, I asked you this question in November - and specifically on 11 November - it was three months ago and you did not answer it in writing, so I came here to present it to you orally, now I ask you what you have done these three months since I asked you the question of resolving this important problem that I have just raised to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u113	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Salma, for the question. Let me begin by saying that you are doing very well and bringing a topical question, it is really important. We have answered your question, but perhaps late. Mr President, I have said this in previous answers from the Step forward in terms of topical questions, such as the workload of the services and the number of questions that we are unable to meet in time and to be consistent in terms of deadlines. Features I will tell you that between August and December 2019 a total of four hundred sixty-four questions, reports and updates were submitted, and we have answered a hundred sixty-nine. It's too big a number. Of course it's impossible to answer everyone. A procedure must be found to facilitate the Ministry of Health and to be able to answer Members' questions in due course. Indeed, Mr Salmas asked, answered in writing and asked a timely question on this important issue. Mr Salma, you quite rightly said that no action had been taken in the past. Indeed, you say that in your question, there is a finding of the 2015 Health Inspectors' Body that has never been exploited since it was issued to date. We really want to give solutions to this problem. Of course we have started solutions as I will tell you. It is a big issue concerning secondary hospitals - you know that very well, you have nursed as Deputy Minister of Health - mainly concerning the movement of patients to hospitals, especially to secondary, separating hospitals. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, allow me to take time from my denture because it is important.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u115	You have time. The bell was a warning bell.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u116	I know, it's just over in a minute. There is a Ministerial Decision, 2013, by the then Minister for Development, which lays down the terms and conditions for granting such ambulances marketing authorisations. In the same Ministerial Decision, it is quite clear that the above entities provide the patient's transport service without the collection of a cost. And these ambulances, as you said, because you know that, you were a member of that government, are given to private clinics and other businesses, such as medical diagnostic centres, in chronic dialysis units. And we know very well that this phenomenon that you have said is happening, that private companies that have ambulances with these centres are contributing to the hospitals. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I would like to say that the EKRD, very well or badly - and we need to improve this, is in the proposals we are making - is not much involved in this phenomenon. Because only the first time an ambulance gets a license, granted by the EKRD, has the EKRD involved. There is an Ambulance Car Register and under no circumstances is a suitability check of the ambulance. It's something we'll change. At regular intervals, at least once a year, these private ambulances will pass a fitness check by the EMCDDA because, firstly, it has to do with safety in driving these vehicles and, of course, to see if the conditions for the suitability of these ambulances are met by time. There are similar conclusions in the SPS conclusion to which I referred and referred. Any complaint, of course, shall be communicated to the EAW, the EAW shall forward it to the competent audit authorities. This is the current regime. Any other transport activity of patients derogating from the above institutional framework is indeed considered and is illegal and we should not show any tolerance to these illegal business activities. I would like to inform you that we have identified this need, and there is a need to revise and modernise the conditions and conditions of the 2013 Ministerial Decision on the granting of a marketing authorisation, and we are examining this whole framework in order to prevent the phenomena of infringement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u117	But now close. I left you plenty of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u118	Wait a minute, please. Mr President, I have answered Mr Salma that we are going to create mixed scales, because in the whole of this story other responsible bodies, such as the Greek Police and, of course, the Ministry of Finance, are involved, in order to stop this illegal and irregular activity and examine the institutional framework. I will tell you what we are planning to do in our speeches. As I have told you, at regular intervals the ESAB will carry out a fitness check on these vehicles, because they may be sold, they may be processed and may not comply with the conditions and conditions following the first authorisation. In addition, there will be a specific...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Contozamani, I can't leave you any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u120	One second, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u121	Look, because I heard what you said about the workload, everything you said, prepared by the Ministry's services, could have been two pages. That's why the Ministry's services don't make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u122	If you give me thirty seconds...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u123	Let me give you 30. I've already given you double the time!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u124	Thank you for your tolerance. There will be documents to record patients and provide medical care and, of course, to record crossings to and from nursing units, so that we can have a picture of what is going on in our hospitals and, as I have said, a revision of the institutional framework, because this fact of the House of Health Inspectors has actually remained untapped. I want to add one more thing. We will also regulate the issue of aerospace by private air transport, because there is unfortunately the institutional framework too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Salma, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u126	First of all, Minister, it is not because of a workload. Like the President, who made the Minister for Health, we had time to answer. I asked you about the medical expense, how it has evolved over the last five years, and you have not even answered me since November. What's the load of that? EPPY is preparing it in an hour. It's ready. What load? Your answer did not satisfy me, Minister. I'll tell you that now that we're talking, look at me, now that we're talking, let's just let the services write - ambulances go to hospitals and pick up patients. They come in, they share tabs in all the chambers, and people use these to go home. Now that's what we're talking about. I was expecting you to tell me what's going to happen since you got out of the Chamber. Now, tomorrow, in an hour, if he crashes one of these ambulances with a patient, you don't justify telling me "we'll study and plan". I had to finish by the time I asked you this question. So, then, you're personally responsible for everything that happens from now on, for any ambulance from now on, from now on, he's been getting patient in hospital. Because I'm telling you, all these ambulances aren't licensed for this job. They are ambulances issued in private clinics, kidney centers, diagnostic centres. Illegally they have given them to private companies. What can I tell you now? That they're Albanians who have five to six ambulances and do this job? And now you're going to answer me this way, that we're going to see a plan to see if these ambulances are all right or have the chasman broken? Is that what we're dealing with? Nothing else I wanted to say. These are a few words to illustrate the importance of this issue, which I stressed, Mr President. And you can better understand than anyone how important this illegal case of the ambulances is. And of course, the previous government did not deal with this. They were dealing with the rest. That's why they haven't seen the findings since 2015. But we're not the previous government. We're the government we're talking about and we're done. Since November I expected you to have solved it when you saw the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u127	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Salma, we know this and before November, because of course we have experience, we have nursed, we know what is going on and it was an opportunity for your question to be dealt with even more. We have also answered your question about the medical expense. Maybe it's late. And because I am not only talking about the current period, the period 2012-2013, when we were together at the Ministry of Health, one thousand two hundred and ninety-four questions were answered by six hundred sixteen. We are doing everything possible to ensure that we are consistent with parliamentary control. I would like to stress once again that we will be vague about violations and illegal behaviour. We know this and I believe that we will be giving a solution very soon. After all, we will be judged on the result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u129	Next is the second with number 514/17-02-20, a topical question from the MP Argolida of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health on "Measures to strengthen cancer patients and develop anti-cancer policy". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that cancer is one of the most frequent and painful causes of death worldwide. In the developed countries there are positive messages in fighting it. In America the latest data show that it has been reduced by 30% compared to 1991, which was the year of cancer deaths. This is due to a reduction in smoking and a rapid improvement in immunologic treatments. For Europe, cancer is the second cause of death in its own countries. Every year in the European Union some two and a half million cancer people are diagnosed, a million three hundred thousand die of it, and 40% of the cases could be predicted. For these reasons, the European Union has chosen to consult, by 3 March 2020, on a joint plan to combat the disease with a view to preventing and early detection and diagnosis, research into the adoption of new effective therapies, exploiting a new strategic data strategy, ensuring better quality of life. At a global level, therefore, where mobility is present in the treatment of the disease, oncological patients live in Greece as a daily Golgotha. In Greece, cancer is the first cause of death with a rate of 27% - about thirty-two thousand deaths a year, leaving cardiovascular diseases behind - while its impact has steadily increased over recent years. It is characteristic that only 0.5% of the total public health expenditure is allocated to treating cancer and only 11% of the diagnoses took place during preventive control, which is extremely low for a European country. Critical is the delay in the diagnosis, which reaches about both months from the first visit to the doctor, and 50% of the cancers are diagnosed during the check on another health problem. I ask you: What is the strategic planning of your Ministry in order to improve the National Health System in the directions and priorities set by the European Commission for the fight against cancer, in particular in the fields of prevention, research, the adoption of innovative therapies and the provision of basic medicines and better quality of life and comforting care for sufferers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Poula, your question is indeed timely, because it is about cancer. It is timely because, recently on February 4th, the European Commission in Brussels - we were present as a Ministry of Health - launched a large campaign and a large consultation on the treatment of this serious disease which, as you said, is the second cause of death at European level, so that by the end of the year we can have a specific operational plan to deal with this disease. Because, in fact, as statistics and international literature show, 40% of cancer patients could have been prevented and had not been ill. So there is a glorious field for everyone in order to deal with this serious disease. Once again, let me repeat from this step the clear and unnecessarily will of our Government to prioritise the area of cancer. We already have concrete results in this direction. There is a system of integrated policy that will deal both with prevention, as you said, early diagnosis, proper personalised treatment, and, of course, with post-treatment and continued support and monitoring of patients when they leave the treatment. This design is under way. I am pleased to inform the House that we have already taken concrete action on this issue. We have already launched solutions to the radiotherapy section, in order to eliminate the waiting lists for radiotherapy in public hospitals, with specific objectives, in particular, regarding the reorganisation of the functions of radiotherapy departments, the strengthening of staff staffing, the renewal of equipment and the design of new sections in the region. I would mention to you that in your region, in Argolida, in the Peloponnese, there is not a single radiotherapy centre. We have already announced the creation of a large radiotherapy centre at the "Salvation" Hospital and we have already said that we will operate on-line centres. Also, the high-cost drug phenomenon that patients used to go to the EPPY pharmacies and then to the private clinic has been eliminated. Patients go directly to private clinics to take their treatment. And we are in the final straight line so that in a few days' time the distribution of high-cost drugs to neighborhood pharmacies begins. In addition, we are launching on a new basis the National Register of Neoplasms of Children and Adolescents and, of course, the National Archive of Neoplasms, which, unfortunately, was inactive by the previous administration of the EGE, the previous government. We are developing various electronic databases with the delivery provider of HICP. We also develop a network for the recording and training of doctors and protocols, particularly as regards paediatric haematology, oncology. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr President, I will need less than a minute. Mr. Poula, as far as your questions are concerned, there was indeed a shortage of anti-neoplastic drugs. This phenomenon is lasting. It's not unprecedented, it wasn't the first time. Most of the time this shortage is due to global production problems. We are trying to solve these problems, in particular by means of exceptional imports via IFET or the production of these medicines in Greece. Adequate market access has been fully restored at the moment. We are, however, working on specific active substances, such as melphalan and another, to create a critical reserve so that when a problem arises, we can meet the needs of patients. There is, of course, a design to support pain medical services. I mentioned the National Cancer Register. Next week, the public health bill is introduced to the committees, where there is, for the first time, a programme of screening, which also covers cancer, is being introduced. There is also strategic planning, as I told you, in cooperation with the European Union, as part of the European Union initiative launched on 4 February, so that at the end of the year we have a specific plan. In this project Greece has an active participation with a specific team...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u133	Finish, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u134	...and we will also be ready at the end of the year to present the National Plan against Cancer, in cooperation with the European Union at all times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Comrade, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, I have listened very carefully and with interest to the Minister. You have said too much, Minister. You have given too many promises and I do not know whether this will be possible within the next few years. The main problem is the issue of chemo. IF itself says there's a shortage of fourteen substances. This delays chemo in too many hospitals, because, as you know, a chemotherapy may have two and three medications. If one is missing, the rest will be postponed. One problem is that. The second major problem is with radiation therapy. They wait twenty, twenty-five days, a month, two months to do the treatment. This is another important problem, which you must immediately solve. As you said, throughout the Peloponnese, we don't have a machine, and it's right, it's real. We have to look at that. The third issue I would also like to raise is regarding the National Register of Cancer. You said that this was set up, that it was set up, and now it will go back into operation if I understood well what you told us. As far as the comforting care of these patients is concerned, you know that there are fifty-seven centers across Greece that make comforting treatment. From this moment on, most of them are not working or operating, operating on a voluntary basis. That's what they want. You should see it very seriously, especially for comforting treatment and care. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for being brief. Here, Minister, you have the floor and I ask you soon. And I would like you to tell me the timetable for the restoration of radiotherapy, because I have heard a similar answer twice during the five-year period. The same service actors copy one question after another. So today, because I've known you for years, I want to hear the timetable.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. We don't copy. We're giving solutions. Mr. Poula, what I mentioned is not promises. These are things that we have done so far. And I told you that there was a question of drug shortages, but today it has been fully restored, and of course I told you that we are dealing with future problems, creating safety reserves in critical drugs that may be missing in the future. Now, as far as the National Archive of Neoplasms is concerned, we all know the previous administration of the National Public Health Organisation had it inoperative and we are in a process of reopening the National Neoplasms Archive, so that we have data in order to formulate a policy. Furthermore, we have already started - and it was the Prime Minister's commitment in the past days to the World Day against Children's Cancer - the creation of the register of children's and adolescent cancer. Because there are several registries scattered into the National Health System. In a short time, by June, we will also have the register of children and adolescent cancer ready. So the actions are specific. We've given cancer priority, and we've already got results. Finally, as far as radiation therapy is concerned, we have already captured the problem. Yes, we recognised that there is a matter of patient waiting, which we have to deal with, as I said to you, with more staff, more shifts. There's a plan. They've already been informed, and we've prepared draft ministerial decisions. We have been consulted and debated and in dialogue with the managers of all radiotherapists across the territory in order to provide a solution to this matter of waiting for radiotherapy. Mr President, because you have referred to specific timetables, I say that and I mean that we will all be judged by the result. There is a specific plan for what we need to do. We know what needs to be done, how we will do it and make sure that at regular intervals we are at the disposal of this House in order to give answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u139	I'll feel sure when I see the resolution. Then I'll feel sure and congratulate you publicly. Five years I've heard that. Cancer patients in Greece did not increase. It was last year and last year, and when I was doing more serious things than politics, medicine, that's what it was. Why were there not waits, with fewer radiation therapists, in fact? That's the point. I'm not blaming you. Seven months you've been at the Ministry, but I don't want to hear the same things at the end of the year. That is why I asked 'when'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, thank you very much. You are right and have experience, because you have also nursed as a Minister of Health. I told you that we have raised the issue, we have given priority to cancer, we have specific actions and results so far and we are very well aware of this problem of radiotherapy and we will give a solution. We do not want any of our fellow citizens to be afflicted, and of course we will find a solution, because there is a legislative initiative in this regard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u141	But a solution to public hospitals, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u142	In public, Mr. Catarin, no cost to the patient. It can be in a private center, no cost to the patient. But I'm talking about public hospitals. It is important that the patient is not financially burdened when he goes to do his treatment in general. So I'm talking about state structures. To conclude, there will soon be a legislative initiative, with regard to the part of the rehabilitation of cancer patients and the comforting care you mentioned, Mr Poula. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u143	Good. We reach the end with two similar questions, which will be discussed together and which I announce in turn: It is the third question with number 519/17-2-2020 of a second-cycle question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece.Giannis Delis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Problems in the functioning of the "Centre of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation", based in the Argos Oriental of Regional Unity (IP) Kastoria" and the second with number 2586/13-12-2019 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Kastoria of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr.Olympia Tyloridos, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Renewation of contracts of workers necessary for the twenty-fourth operation of the Centre of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (KEFIAP) of Argos Ores Oresticsikos Territory of Regional Unit (EP) Kastorias". Minister, I have reached agreement with my colleagues. Mr. Delis will take the floor first, and then Mrs. Tyloridou will take the floor. Times don't fall at all. On the contrary, the return will take place. There's the last questions, and I'll show some tolerance. And you will, at the same time, respond to both of you, having more time. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister, in Kastoria, and specifically in Argos, there is a Center for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation. It is one of the two rehabilitation centres that exist, unfortunately, - only these two exist - throughout northern Greece. The other one's nearby in Florina's Ammonium. We're talking about a centre with very modern facilities. In 2004, a new wing of eighteen beds was completed, fully equipped with equipment, which is going to work as a day-to-day care unit. The purpose of this centre, as is the purpose of all these similar centres, is diverse, is very important. It concerns the physiotherapy of people in need, reasoning, early diagnosis, psychological, social, advisory support for all those people who need to restore their health. It is also about informing the members of their family about their illness, especially those with disabilities. It concerns their vocational training, so that they can be properly integrated into society after a number of cases which can happen after an incident involving a vascular accident, a accidents at work, such as these in recent years, because of the lack of minimum protection measures for workers, and of road accidents. The causes are known. In this respect, therefore, the natural rehabilitation centre with the ultramodern ones - one would say - facilities are very few workers - cannot meet the requirements of this equipment, not because they do not know, but because they do not have enough numbers. In fact, several of them, and in particular fifteen, are also contractors. Now think about what support a contractor will give, that is, a man who is struggling for his own working future, to another person who is struggling for the restoration of his own health. I think that even by talking about it we all understand what is going to happen. So we ask you, Minister - because that is where we want to end - what you will do to stop this disgrace of the contractors, to simulate these people there. And we say that they need to be permanentized not only in Argos, Orgos, but wherever they work in the Greek public sector, and in areas that are so critical, there must be recruitment to serve this centre of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, as well as the rest, so that those infrastructures that exist there and that, as I said, are modern. We're waiting to hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u145	My colleague Mrs Telgioridou has the floor for her own question with a similar subject that she has tabled. Here you go, Mrs. Tyloridou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, Minister! I've been hitting the danger codes since 13 December 2019. On 13 December 2019, I tabled this question as to what the government's plan to continue the 24-hour operation of the Argentine Forest CFP. Ignorance of the Ministry of Health leadership to give me an answer! But indifference and a solution! The CEFI at the Argos Orestiou is really a high standard center. It was completed in 2004. In the previous period, we made interventions in the infrastructure so that it could be functional and closed hospitalisation to serve people who really need medical rehabilitation. Until the operation, Mr President, of this centre, the only way these people have had from our region and from the wider region to solve their health problems was private rehabilitation centres at an unreasonable cost, Minister, which reaches 4,000 and 4,500 euros a month. You understand, then, that it is not possible for a person to face such a health problem in his misfortune to also have the financial burden of restoring his health. I am referring to the center and I say that on average he gives his services to eighty people a month. In closed hospitals more than ten patients on average a month enjoy these services. And I ask: on 27 February is the end of the contract of the fifteen necessary contract staff, who offer high health services, thanks to whom the rehabilitation centre operates 24 hours. What are you going to do? What is the government's planning? I think that at the moment - we have six days before the end of their contracts - it is a one-way renewal of contracts, a one-way road not to close not one day, but not one hour, the Medical Rehabilitation Centre and, of course, to find the necessary time, so that we can also see permanent work relations. I think it is very important, Mr President, for our region and I want a clear answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u147	Good, Mrs. Tyloridou. Minister, you have six minutes to answer - one issue was identical, each in its own way raised the question - to both my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Tlyiyoridou, Mr Delis, may I first of all make it clear that the Government is committed to the operation of the CFP and to an integrated plan for the rehabilitation sector in our country, because the public sector is most often absent in this part. Mrs. Tyloridou, I'd like to give you the indifference status. It was your government that did not mind it. All you cared about was filling up the structures with hired contractors and not giving permanent solutions. You didn't care how these structures work after. Now that's what's happening with the CFPs. The CFPs were working and will continue to work. Since July 2019, we have made it clear and proceeded to concrete actions. I remind you of the four thousand people employed through OAED programmes. We managed and renewed their contract for another year in the health ministry's bodies and structures. Unfortunately, with regard to the second package of employees through OAS programmes - five and a half thousand people, of whom six hundred in structures of the Ministry of Health - were not able to renew their contracts. Of course you knew that too. You knew that sometime the contracts would end when you launched these programmes on your own governance. You were aware, in other words, that after the end of the duration of these programmes the contracts of workers were automatically ceased and that you were not prepared to provide permanent solutions in respect of the operation of these centres. You left it to evolve normally and, of course, the conventions expired, which would be the case with the other four thousand, but we have managed and secured resources available - because it is also a question of the availability of resources - from the OAED programmes, so that we can have them for another year in the health system. I am saying this, as I have told you, in response to the indifferences and to highlight the clandestineness with which your Government has dealt with the issues of public administration and the administration of health services. An example of clandestineness is, unfortunately, the Argos Orchard's CIF. You received it with fifteen permanent staff, without being able to support a closed hospital, beyond two, three incidents. And what did you do? You have served with fixedterm contractors, extending its function, without having bothered you what will happen when the contract time of the fifteen workers expires. And you come today and you give up on how we solve the problem that you have created. So what I can tell you with certainty is that we do not intend to create new problems. We want to give lasting solutions and we will not criticise the creation of merely impressions. Certainly - and I am closing down, Mr President - the role of CFPs is not that of a small hospital in which a closed hospital is provided. CEFIs can be daily care units, with patients coming and receiving their treatment, treatment and returning home. We have evaluated the proposals of the scientific bodies, we have a specific plan, as I have told you, for rehabilitation and in this context we are moving towards the establishment of the Rehabilitation Team, both in hospitals with clinical physical and rehabilitation medicine, as well as in CFPs and CFPs and in open and closed hospitals. The Rehabilitation Team is essentially the one that will also give life to CFPs and will fully address the needs of citizens for rehabilitation services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, three students and students and two of their educational companions from the Arcadian Centre of Studies. The House welcomes you. Welcome to the Greek Parliament! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: 'Trade marks - incorporation of Directive (EU) 2015/2436 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to trade marks and Directive 2004/48/EC on the enforcement of intellectual property rights and other provisions'. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I think that in this Chamber - and not just - too many commitments from government actors have been heard on various issues. We have heard one day about physics centres and rehabilitation centres, as they are called. I do not know what the value of these commitments is, but the experience of the people I think is excellent and characteristic. I can only tell you that in a similar question we asked about the Amynteio Rehabilitation Centre in 2018, we had received corresponding commitments from the previous government of SYRIZA. In a similar question for the National Rehabilitation Centre in Illion from a number of ten JRC Members, we have again made new commitments for the operation of these centres. Of course nothing happened. There is still the same unacceptable situation in the sub-commitment which, of course, has the cause of sub-financing, as you know very well. So when we talk about the government continuity between New Democracy and SYRIZA or SYRIZA with New Democracy, that is what we mean. But I would like to mention a few very characteristic examples, especially from the Centre for Rehabilitation in the Argos, in order to understand the scale of the problem. You know there's no permanent physicist there at the rehab and a physicist from Amytino needs to go twice a week. But the contract of this physicist ended from now on in the Argos Orestry, in a center of physical medical physicist does not exist. Over the past few days, there has been an extremely serious case of haemorrhage. In the absence of a doctor, therefore, there was a very serious problem in dealing with it. The centre's 24-hour operation does not think it can be done with the existing staff, despite the fact that the workers there, as everywhere - in health, in education, in all sectors of the public sector - think they are exaggerating themselves, especially in the health sector, in order to respond to their role. We have also told you about the crucial area of sub-financing, but on this occasion I would like to ask you, Minister, in general, the question of these rehabilitation centres, where thousands of our fellow people and our fellow citizens are resorting. You know, here in Illion, at the National Rehabilitation Center, 30 of the two hundred beds that the public health system operates in our country. At the same time and while the public sector has two hundred restored beds, the private sector has reached a thousand at the moment we are talking about. According to scientists you know them very well, the minimum number of beds required in our country is at least two thousand. So we all understand what it means to subsecute, what this decommissioning of public rehabilitation centres means, how they open up the field, cultivate the ground, leave the space to develop the private individuals who will of course gain. In support of the above, the situation in both Amydino and the Rehabilitation Center in Amphilochia is characteristic. We think it is a pity, Minister, that we really - and we are addressing the people who are listening to us - at this time, with technology reaching where it has arrived, with the possibilities of science being gigantic, that there are people who give their head's hair - because you know, whoever is in this need will give what he has and does not, in order to restore his health - so that they can have that good - the social good we say - the restoration of their health. And this policy, your own policy, like the previous one, is depriving them of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u151	Mrs. Tyloridou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are not satisfied with your reply. It is a general answer, which says that it will work without saying either way or time. During the parliamentary control, I believe that the government's responsible must provide concrete solutions and not oppose opposition. Is it our government that for seven months you have not taken a solution to this problem? Is it the inadequacy of our own government that has been giving you a solution for seven months? On 27 February the conventions expire. What are you going to do on February 28th, that's putting a padlock on the Argos Orchard's Creek Creek? You gave yourself an answer on how the government handled a similar OAED program for hospitals. So why are there two standards here and you don't do the same for the CFP? Is the resources in the OAED programme available? So why don't you make use of them and do not even proceed with this solution, which arises because of the need for the last minute and then see how the problem will be solved permanently? So when do you intend to solve this? We want clear answers. This centre serves the needs of people who really need it. You blamed our previous government, while we were the ones who closed the cycle of depreciation of these structures, and we enabled the citizens, who really can't deal with their post-mortem care in private centres with unreasonable costs, to have the provision of public health. It is a constitutional requirement for people in need to have the protection and help of the state. Patients are not customers for private centers. You need to give solutions immediately. You don't have time, but you have a duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u153	My dear Olympia, I, as a doctor, will agree with you, but four and a half years were enough...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u154	We have opened it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u155	To be served with permanent posts, so today neither my friend, Yannis, would be here to ask a question. You didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u156	But you are aware, Mr President, that there was the 'one to five' clause, which now does not exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u157	Okay. Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Tyloridou, Mr. Delis, I'm sorry, but I guess I didn't understand. I want to be clear. On February 28th, when the contracts have expired, the Centre in Argos Oros will continue to operate, as was the case before these contractors.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u159	No closed function, i.e..
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u160	There were incidents over there, just increased the incidents of closed hospitality...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u161	Wait a minute, Minister. I don't want to make an opposition, but it was open, not 24 hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u162	Well, right now we're facing a certain situation that we're facing. Because you referred to the OAS, we fought and guaranteed, as I said in my protology, the four thousand contractors to the OAS, because there was money in the programme available.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u163	And this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u164	There's no resources.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u165	There are.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u166	If there were, do you think we'd leave them on the road? You don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u167	There are.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u168	I'm telling you there are no resources. From there on, I told you that the centers of physical medicine and rehabilitation will continue to work. We will strengthen them with permanent solutions, with a position and, of course, with subsidiary staff, we can increase their activity. Under no circumstances will we leave the patients uncovered. First of all, I said it myself. Mr. Delis, because you have spoken again of commitments and wishes, everyone from the result is judged. I would like you not to compare us with the previous government, because the Greek people have sent it to the opposition. Of course, there is an integrated plan for rehabilitation, an overall supply package, so that we upgrade the health services provided and the citizen has access to this public good without having to bear any extra costs, because there really have to be public restoration services. As I said at the outset, unfortunately the public sector is far from lacking in these services. We therefore ensure the functioning of CFPs so that each patient is effectively supported and receives essential and effective physical medicine and rehabilitation services. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-21-S1-commons.u170	With the consent of this House at 12.18 p.m. the sitting is closed for Monday, February 24, 2020, at 14.00, on the subject of this House's work: a) legislative work, according to the agenda to be distributed and b) parliamentary scrutiny, a topical and urgent debate.
