ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the following: Today, Monday, 19 October 2020, the current questions that will be discussed are as follows: The Questions Nos 36-9-10-2020 and 46/12-10-2020 will be answered by the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Niki Kerameos. Questions Nos 47-12-10-20 and 49/12-10-20 will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis. The Question No 37/9-10-20 will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domnas - Maria Michaelidou. Finally, number 31/6-10-2020, 32/6-10-2020, 41/9-10-2020, 42/9-10-2020, 57/12-10-2020, 58/12-10-2020 and 59/12-10-2020 topical questions will be answered by the State Secretary of Health Mr. We begin with the second with number 36/9-10-2020, a top-level question by MP I Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Christoros Vernardakis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on "Explanations of committees of experts for the reopening of the educational structures of the country". The question will be answered by the Minister, Mr. Keramea. I would ask you all to be close to time, so that we can collect it, because the last time I was president, I overreacted and let everyone speak as much as they want. So, Mr. Bernardakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, the Government has set up two committees to deal with COVID, the Committee on the Management of Extraordinary Incidents, also known as the Scientific Committee on Logistics and the National Committee on Public Health Protection. These committees are public bodies, they are public policy bodies, they are collective administrative bodies. They have been formed in accordance with the Code of Administrative Procedure, they have a coordinator, they have declared competence for opinions, decisions and recommendations, they have a secretary and they have a Deputy Secretary to convene them, keep them practically and... We have submitted to you, together with two other Members, a request for documents on 31 August what exactly are the recommendations of the Scientific Committee and the National Committee regarding the opening up of schools and the maintenance of distances. This mainly concerned the twenty-five or twenty-seven people per room. We submitted a request for documents to be filed. We didn't get an answer. We have a violation of the Rules of Procedure in Rule 133(3). And not only did we not receive an answer, not only did these suggestions, which are public documents, but we also did not even have that tide, this way out of the Rules of Procedure of this House, to inform this House and to invoke a reason for the Minister responsible, because these Minutes are not delivered. On the other hand, we certainly have a constant leak in the press that the government follows the experts' suggestions, that these suggestions are also unanimous. When it comes to public policy, when there is a committee that opinions or suggests a lockdown, for example, with huge impacts on the local economy, as in the case of Kosani, we need to know exactly what the proposal, which is based on. The responsibility of the political leadership of the Ministry - and of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education, because it concerns us in relation to the opening-up of schools - is, and we demand to know what the recommendation is. Is there a unanimous recommendation? Is there a majority? Was there a minority? Is there not even a suggestion, but has one of the committee members been empowered to suggest that the political leadership can take a decision? Is there a possible return? Did you give any direction, as many members of the committee start and leak into the press? Did you give any instructions, and did you actually turn a committee's suggestions in some direction? We need a clear and concrete answer on these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u3	Madam Minister, Mrs. Kerameau, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving us the opportunity to re-explain the implementation of the measures in the school and other educational units of the country. I'll start with the data. We have five weeks of school operation and the situation is as follows: in the interests of prevention and prevention from the coronary, 0.2% of the schools in the country are closed, i.e. 32 schools in a total of over 14.000 school units, and 0.3% of the school departments in the country are closed, for the accuracy of 246 departments in a total of over 80,000 schools. A section shall be closed for preventive reasons when there is a case for a student or where EGE and the Regional Health Department establish under a protocol and close further sections, for example if the case is an instructor that may have taught in more than one section. As has been analysed in the briefing by Mr. Hardalia and Mr. Majorkins, there has so far been a tendency to transfer the virus from school to another. In other words, cases first come out of school and are transported to school. In addition, while the proportion of teachers-children is 1 to 8.5, pupils' cases are not 8.5 times more than teachers. It is just 3.8 times more, which seems to confirm the experts who had stressed that children tend to transmit the virus more difficult and less ill. The protection and prevention measures of more than 15 applied in schools following the guidance of experts shall be applied in an exceptional manner. Here we must congratulate and thank all the members of the educational community, students, teachers, training staff and parents for their genuinely exemplary compliance with the measures. Television in Pella, Lesvos, in individual schools or departments with more than 2,000 teleconferences, more than 78,000 registered users and more than 79,000 classes in asynchronous. We have hired more than 49,200 teachers, at least in recent years, to meet the increased needs of the coronary. To get a picture, a size class, when SYRIZA was in power, the recruitment of deputys in 2016 was 22,000. Almost 50,000 this year. In 2017 it was 26,000. Almost 50,000 this year. 2018 was 34,000. That's in response to a few comments from SYRIZA that said we hire 20,000 less educators. The unanimous recommendation from the committee - and I will come to it, Mr President - was for a full reopening of schools with increased protection measures. There has been a lot of talk from SYRIZA in relation to all of this for the school classes with over 25 students. Efforts had been made by SYRIZA to cultivate the impression that the majority of the parts of the country are 26, with 27, with 28 students. How much is it actually? Three percent. Are there any of these? Of course there are. What is happening in other countries? I will refer you to the last version of the OECD - it came out a few weeks ago - which shows that Greece has the fourth smallest number of students per part of 33 countries, below the average of the OECD countries, less than countries such as France, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Germany. The committee's unanimous recommendation was precisely for the full reopening of schools with increased protection measures and each measure is applied in a different way to each population group. For example, distance is differently observed in adults and differently in children. If you put ten children, as I have said publicly and otherwise, in a room, even if it's only ten, they'll have a natural tendency to come near each other. The mask is the most effective we have. As the Prime Minister said, it is our "voluntary" before the vaccine comes out. That's the situation today. Why am I saying 'Today' and I stress it? For in all this crisis, Mr Colleague, we are taking a step forward. Special scientists who guide us analyse the data on a daily basis and recommend us measures. One example is Kosani. You mentioned her. A special lockdown has been planned in particular, but the experts' decision was that schools should continue to operate. Why? That's why we talked about this. I shall come to my dentistry with specific recommendations from the experts to whom you refer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Bernardakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u6	Well, 'other words to be loved'. We didn't come here to tell us what policy you're following. This is not the time to discuss this. She may be good, she may be bad, for you she is the best, but it is another conversation. I came here to ask you this: Is there this recommendation from the Committee of Experts, yes or no? If there is, did you have to testify to the House, yes or no? Since you could not submit it, you had to justify, under the Rules of Procedure of the House, why not submit it? In any case, even now, this unanimous decision you are saying gives it to us, which is not what I asked you to do. You're saying it's about opening the schools. But that's not what I asked. I asked what the committee had to do with what it had to do with distances. It's two different things. "Other words to be loved"! And I obviously take it - in a sense - as a light, great - will be judged by the Greek people - by a deception of Parliament. Public documents are being concealed by Parliament and there is no reason to do this. I did not ask you either about the Kozan's suggestion and lockdown, which also raises questions about the usefulness of having blockdowns throughout the economy, but not in schools. And here we would obviously like to see the committee's suggestion. What's that suggestion? How is it based? It's not bad, and it's not necessarily your fault for this thing. You could throw the ball in the commission. No one's a non-profit maker. It is a public policy body, and in that sense we should have all the suggestions and minutes here in Parliament, as appropriate in a democratic country. Because you think that by quoting various elements and speaking about politics, you are going beyond the sniper at the moment, I would like to tell you the following and I would like to ask you a few questions and tell me in your dentistry as specifically as possible: to open schools first, so that we do not leave it in the first place, what is the line of government? Is your line saying that 3% of the departments are over seventeen or the Prime Minister's line? What do you claim? That 3% is over twenty-five. This is your line, this is the line of Prime Minister who says 'we searched for it, because it was a serious reasonable request, but we have not been able to satisfy it', or the line of the Minister of State of Mr. Gerapetritis's Minister of State who says it is a budgetary problem? In any case, if you were so flexible - if you wish - why did you legislate in June the increase from twenty-two to twenty-five and under conditions of twenty-seven per class? But that's not the problem anyway. I would like you, in passing, to answer these very simple questions: Watch the closure of departments and schools and show some statistics. I want you to tell me what the sum of the schools and departments that have been closed this month is. You only give the daily performance. We have two hundred sections today that are closed. Since the beginning of the school year, how many schools have been closed? Can you say that? Why don't you follow the EGE's methodology in this regard? Don't tell me that this is a decision - a committee of experts. What does ETA tell us every day at 6:00? ‘The sum of cases was 20 thousand five hundred’, etc. "the sum of deaths so much and today we have had so many cases and so many deaths". It gives a full picture of their geographical distribution. Why don't you do that? Why don't you do it? Do you have a statistical estimate of where and how does the configuration of this trend go? Because I've had the trouble of checking this out and I'm just going to tell you a few clues. On 21 September we had 30 closed sections, on 30 September we had sixty - one, on 12 October we had sixty - nine, on 16 October we were two hundred and four. The curve is completely upward, and if the whole country is in trouble, schools cannot be a security island. So they need extra measures. In any case, however, that is not what we are dealing with again. Our subject matter is the body for forming public policy which is the Committee of Experts. What does he say about all this? What are her records? Are there practically like she has to last? Please for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u7	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, of course there are minutes. You have applied both to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education. They will be answered as provided for in parliamentary scrutiny. I want to tell you in particular what it refers to there.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u9	You have a binding date.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u10	Allow me, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u11	Wait a minute, Mr. Bernardakis and Mrs. Secretary. I, as President, must also help Members. The question is quite specific. Will you testify to the Minutes and when?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u12	May I, Mr President, reply?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u13	I'll allow you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u14	As I said, the questions will be answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u15	Why haven't they answered until today? You have had from 31 August to 1 October, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure, to reply. And you don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u16	Good, good. Let the Minister answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u17	We'll answer, Mr. Bernardakis. So I'm coming from now on. What do the Minutes say? They say: "The continuation of schools during the pandemic, which is expected to continue over the next few months, is extremely important. The presence at school is an important educational process to acquire new knowledge, develop skills. Creative relations with students and teachers, play and sports activities are of great importance for the social, emotional integration of children and adolescents, their physical and mental health. The full operation of the school," says experts, "it is also important for working parents who have the opportunity to participate in the production process. The start of the school year," the experts say, "it is done with the full operation of schools. However, other forms of operation, for example distance learning, online in combination with an alternating presence at the school of part of the pupils, may be required if epidemiological data are changed.’ It concludes "After an interactive debate, the members of the committee unanimously adopted the above". We will respond in detail as provided for in the request for documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u18	There are twenty-five children, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u19	Please. The only two have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u20	Mr. President, may I? The experts say "The safe operation of schools is based on the systematic application of multiple protection measures that operate as a whole". In particular, it refers to all issues: the orientation of the thrones in one direction, the universal use of the protective mask, care for the involvement of children from different sections, and so on. But allow me, Mr President. There's a limit, you know. You asked about our position. ‘What is your position, finally?’ You say. "The number of pupils per department? Doubling?’ Mr. Bernardakis, there are many elements of the answer because the problem is complex. For the number of students per department I specifically told you that it is 3% of the number of students per department who are over twenty-five students.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u21	You're being disproved by teachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u22	I told you that we are the fourth best country in the OECD on the basis of the last survey that came out a few weeks ago. You disproved that, too? Do you disprove the OECD and that? We have a better number of pupils per department than they have countries such as Finland, Sweden, France and the United Kingdom. See the latest OECD report.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u23	Four sections closed today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u24	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u25	Please, let me preside over. To complete the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u26	You say in particular "Why didn't you find the rooms double?" Mr. Bernardakis, I can't resist. You were Minister of Interior and Commander of Reconstruction of the previous government. Your Government - and rightly so - has provided for the extension of compulsory kindergarten to the ages of four to five. We're talking about a class. You know, Mr. Bernardakis, that you couldn't implement this commitment, that law that you voted on? You voted for him well. You couldn't implement him for just sixty-five thousand children. We're talking about a million four hundred thousand children. When we arrived at the Ministry in June 2019, Mr Vernardakis, there were no rooms for the implementation of the two-year compulsory. Only for one class, just for that year, for fifty municipalities. They didn't exist. You hadn't taken care of one class, not for fourteen classes, Mr. Vernardakis, not for doubling the classrooms in the fourteen classes of school and one million fourteen thousand pupils. You're weak. You were not even able to find rooms for the measure you voted on, supposedly after studying for just one class. To say the figs and boats, Mr. Bernardakis. I come in a note I would like to make on the issue of the increase in pupils. Mr. Bernardakis, why don't you say that for your day in all grades of primary school the number was twenty-five? Why don't you say it? All grades were twenty-five. It was twenty-five! Only in one class was different. For your day it was twenty-five in the second grade, in the third grade, in the fourth grade, in the fifth grade, in the sixth grade. Why don't you say that? Why do you hide that? It's a key element. I shall conclude, Mr President, with this: there are too many fields for us to exchange ideological arguments. You may disagree, for example, with the skill workshops that we have introduced pilots into schools, with robotics, with road safety, volunteering. You may not agree with the assessment we introduce into schools and universities, by linking evaluation and funding, with the possibility of each university deciding on its own to establish, for example, a foreign-language postgraduate programme. You may want the Minister to have all the powers on him, not decentralize anything. Mr President, the different position, but let us not sprinkle on the coronary and school lines. In May you said not to open schools, you said it was an unnecessarily political risk, that our children would stay out of school for six months in the dark. The only easy thing would be for us, but it wouldn't be right, it wouldn't be right for our children. Allow me, Mr President, with all due respect, to table a proposal: do not invest in disaster, in the cultivation of fear in education, in not invest in toxic speech. We are experiencing an unprecedented crisis and our country has done almost better than all European countries. That must not at all be reassured. And things can really make it difficult, especially in the winter they come. Here we are, therefore, never complacent, day-to-day monitoring - day, step - the development of pandemic, which is a dynamic process, and yes, to update measures where necessary either at national or regional level. That is exactly what happened in Kosani the other day, and that is what we will continue to do, with a sense of responsibility towards the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u27	Madam Minister, taking into account what you have said, state your suggestions. After you read a piece of the decision, it goes on to say that you have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u28	It will be answered, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u29	Put them in the Minutes of Parliament, so that all parties can take them, criticise them, say good. I do not know what they will say, but we must absolutely do so to keep parliamentary control at a certain level. We continue with the fourth with number 46/12-10-2020 current question of the first cycle of the MP of Thessaloniki, the Communist Party of Greece, Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Unjust the exception of newly appointed teachers from the breeding permits." Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before going to the main theme of my question I have to make a brief comment on today's news. There are two typical images, Minister, today. First, a fourteen-year-old high school student from Halandri goes to court, having been detained for five whole days in GDR - look out, we're talking about a fourteen-year-old student - and he's completely wrongly accused - and, of course, unscrupulously - of felony acts. What was his 'crime'? He participated in last Thursday's massive student rally, where children were asking for and still seeking better conditions for their schools. Second picture: the public prosecutor's office today basically proposes the discharge of the accused of the Golden Dawn criminal organisation, since they propose that their sentence be of a suspensory nature. That is, nothing happened, going out and moving freely. These are two characteristic images which are brutally offended by the public on the legal sense of our people. As far as the question is concerned, on 21 August last, the Ministry of Education takes out a circular according to which neo-determined teachers of special education, special scientific staff and special assistant staff are effectively losing their right to maternity, paternity and parenthood in a few words, since they are not entitled to childbirth leave - be careful - those who have completed the second year of their age. To those who deserve it, that is, to those who have children under two years of age, and to those who have this "handle" with your circle. Of course this cannot be accepted. Of course, there has been a storm of protest by teachers for this unacceptable and incomprehensible circular. What we are asking for is for you to withdraw it, of course, to grant it the right to nine-month leave to raise up to all newly appointed teachers, without conditions and without conditions, to those who have children up to four years of age, as is normally the case for all civil servants. In fact, we say, Minister, that also extends to the alternates. Because they and their struggle have won last year the right of three and a half months of rearing leave. And, of course, we will continue to ask the Ministry of Education to finally equate the rights of permanent and alternate teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u31	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. First of all, following your comment, Mr Delis, on the fourteen-year-old student, I would refer you to a communication from the Ministry of Citizen Protection, which came out a moment ago, and specifically mentions the decision of the first interrogator of the juvenile section. There is a specific decision of the interrogator. I would refer you to the relevant communication from the Ministry of Civil Protection. I'm coming to your question. You said, Mr. Colleague, they're losing the right. They don't lose any right, Mr. Delia. There is no change in the institutional framework. The circular to which you refer is applying the existing framework, precisely in relation to breeding permits for newly-trained teachers. This is where he wants attention. According to the framework, as there was, there is a distinction between teachers and administration. Different is the institutional framework applicable to teachers and different levels of administration, as the framework as a whole is different. Different is the framework for the summer leave for teachers and administration. Different is a number of criteria and parameters relating to the status of both sides. So there was no change in the institutional framework. We are here to discuss whether the institutional framework is right, if it needs improvement. And I'm at your disposal for suggestions you might have. So, of course, improvements can be made to the existing institutional framework. We need legislation, we need to look at it. However, there is a distinction between the framework for the working of teachers and the administrative workers. Therefore, the Circular applies the law that is in force and, therefore, it is completely wrong that the licenses of newly appointed teachers are being cut. The framework applicable to both sides is different. I shall then return to my denunciation and the points you have raised concerning the alternates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Delia, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. On the first point I mentioned, Minister, I think the Ministry of Education, in addition to the political responsibility and role it objectively has, bears a pedagogical responsibility. So we invite you to take a position on this incident with the student. In fact, we call on you not only to take a position - let the Ministry of Citizen Protection - but also to intervene, so that not only will this particular student be released, but also to get completely rid of the irresponsible charges that are burdening him. This circular is real. It says that those who have children over two years of age - that's why we ask you the question - are not entitled to nine months. It's in your Circle. You know the number. It's at 10857/21-8-2020. It's recent, that is. This circular, this decision, your Minister, is not only illegal, it is not legitimate, it is not, it is contrary to the provisions of the Civil Service Code, which makes no exception to any official. Except for illegal, though, she's also unfair. Why does the Ministry of Education itself come - in order to strengthen the illegality of your action, I say this - earlier, of course, in 2006, and says that 'the nine-month child' - in fact, and not part of it - 'in accordance with Article 53 of Law 2683/1999, newly appointed mothers of teachers are entitled, if they do not use a reduced working hours, as laid down in the law, until they have completed the fourth year of their age'. You shrink it and give it to those parents who have children up to two years old. That is what we say must be removed. That's what we say you need to change. And to say a few things, Minister, we are talking about people, about teachers, about these four - four and a half thousand appointed - few, of course, in the face of the needs - which over the past ten, fifteen, twenty years most of them turned around Greece and offered their educational services, under very difficult and unfavourable conditions, changing every year workplace, home to what this meant for their family planning. The state is now coming, the state is coming, and what is it telling them? Does he say thank you? He's punishing them from above because they have a child over two years old? In order not to remember the problems faced by substitutes in particular, pregnant women who did not have the right, you know, to take the pregnancy leave which their permanent colleagues were entitled to. This was not accepted and is essentially excluded from these authorisations. In any case, what can anyone say? Say there's a network of state nurseries to support fertility, to support a family, a new couple who has a little child? What one can say, of course, is that this model of flexible labour relations is increasingly concentrating, increasingly spreading. You recently brought in a new elastic employment relationship, the employment relationship of the quarter. So these flexible working relationships do not only have reduced wages, they also have reduced labour rights, and we actually see this happening. But we think, in relation to this circular, that you should withdraw it. We invite you to withdraw and apply the nine months for all who have a child who is up to four years old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u35	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Three comments. Firstly, with regard to the circular, I want to be clear. Here we have to balance the protection of maternity - extremely important, I have own knowledge of how important it is and how important we must protect it - and also how important it is to organise and manage the educational system and human resources. As I said to you, the framework in force, the existing framework, provides for a different regime for the workers of teachers and administrative workers. It provides for a different scheme, different permits. For example, the managers do not have permission in the summer. There is a whole different working regime for teachers and managers. I stress, however, that we are here to look at improvements throughout the existing context, let alone to the extent that this concerns human resources, to which we attach particular importance and importance. I come to the human resources of the alternates for whom you have made a special reference. Mr Delis, you are a years of parliamentarianity and you are watching very closely and very diligently all the issues that concern teachers and assistants. You know that this year's subservient recruitment was done much earlier. You know that they were substitutes who said "for the first time we arrived in schools before the school year begins." You know that for the first time this year it's become an electronic service withdrawal. Instead of a teacher necessarily going, for example, to Syros where the training address is, to see where he will take over, with all his family, with big tails, now took over directly at his school and electronically. You'll tell me it's self-evident. Sure. The state had to have done it many years ago. However, they had not been done. Here, too, we are constantly improving the regime, making improvements, in order to protect as much, as much as possible, our substitute teachers and, in general, our teachers. You know that for the first time in the history of the country they have become permanent appointments to special education and education. For the first time in the history of the country! You know that after ten years the permanent appointments of ten thousand five hundred teachers in general education have been advanced. And you know that all this was done in the middle of a pandemic, with a real feat on the part of the services of the IASP and the Ministry of Education, in order to proceed in time and to have 1 September all these teachers of special education in their place and the new tables. You also know that an additional EUR 318 million was allocated for teachers' recruitment, so that we have reached the recruitment of forty-nine thousand of 14 teachers, specialists, social workers, psychologists, etc., in order to provide our schools with even better information on the increased needs. You also know that we have predicted the dual molecularisation of teachers serving in schools in difficult and inaccessible areas of Greece, a regulation that had been abolished by the previous government. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying this: you have made a reference to the quarterly contracts. We have, in fact, anticipated, given the Koroni crisis, the possibility of protecting our teachers who belong to increased risk groups. It was very important for us to protect teachers and to provide for their replacement for lifelong education. That is why we have provided for three-month contracts with the possibility of renewal. Why were you three months? But because, Mr. Colleague, we don't know how long this need will last. I'm just saying it, too. On the one hand, we want to shield the teacher and do it as much as it takes. On the other hand, Mr Delis, we also have a responsibility towards the Greek taxpayer and the Greek taxpayer's money. What do you suggest? Pay for a place of two teachers a whole year while there might not be that need? So we do two things. We protect the teacher as long as necessary, but we do so in a flexible context, with full respect for the Greek taxpayer's money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u37	MP Imathia of New Democracy Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis asks for permission to be granted from Tuesday 20 October to Friday 23 October to go to Spain for his personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u38	The House approved the requested permission. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Development and Investment, Economic and Foreign Affairs tabled a draft law on 16-10-2020: 'Structuring the Memorandum between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Kuwait in the field of industrial cooperation'. The Ministers for Development and Investment, Finance, Foreign Affairs, Education and Religious Affairs and State tabled a draft law on 16-10-2020: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in Science, Technology and Innovation". Both sanctions are referred to the competent Standing Committee. We move on to the second with number 49/12-10-20 appropriate question from the Member of Parliament of Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The abolition of automatic mechanism to increase the retirement age limits based on life expectancy". The Minister will answer Mr. Brutsi. Mr Mulkiotis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are well aware that under the burden of the country's possible financial derailment in the period 2004-2009 the PASOK Government under the laws of 3863 and 3865 of 2010 established a new public insurance system to ensure not only sustainability but also the adequacy of pensions. I'm sure you know that very well. In this context, therefore, the financial framework of the time and given the relatively low pension thresholds, these laws provide for, among other things, a gradual and smooth increase in the retirement age limits, but also for the gradual alignment of the age limits and the time of insurance both between men and women, and between insured persons belonging to different insurance bodies. In addition, the automatic adjustment mechanism for the retirement age limits has, of course, always been in place, depending on the life expectancy of the country's population and a reference point for the sixty-fifth year. This has been foreseen from 01-01-2021. It is characteristic, Minister, that this provision lays down the age limit for the sixty-fifth year, which was the maximum age limit when the provision was introduced. But this threshold has already been increased twice, reaching the sixty-seventh year of age. Of course, after the vote on the previous government's third memorandum, there were huge increases in age limits and, in many cases, they reached one night in ten or even fifteen years, but they maintained the provision for automatic increases in age limits on the basis of an increase in life expectancy. The purpose of the provision is, Minister, that it is now overpaid because of the violent increase in the age limits that have come to an end with the third memorandum. The average retirement age in our country corresponds or approaches the average age of the countries of the European Union with upward trends and without, of course, calculating the provision in Article 11(3) of Law 3863/2010. Of course, if this provision is still applied, given the forecast, that is, the sixty-five-year reference point, it should not be made, at least for the next few years, to raise age limits, since the increase threshold has already reached sixty-seven years. Minister, the question is clear and specific: If you intend, with all the information I have said, to adopt the proposal of the Change Movement, which has also been tabled in order to vote for the current insurance policy in February 2020, to abolish this provision of legislation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u40	Mr Mulkiotis, of course, I do not know after ten years of memorial and pandemic if the expectation has gone up or down. That's the point. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank Mr Mulkiotis for this question, because the answer I am going to give will clarify an issue which, in recent years, is disastrously disseminating things which do not correspond to reality and which do not reflect the government. My dear colleague, the insurance system in Greece has been the subject of claims, interventions and constant changes since its establishment. It is therefore a major structural issue for the national economy and the Greek society and has concerned the state immediately, almost after the actual application of the social security institution. The long-term and structural diseases of the insurance system and its extremely worrying prospects emerged primarily during the recent economic crisis, as you yourself admitted. So the country's socio-security system was the subject of considerable interventions, as you yourself just said before. Recent experience has highlighted the importance of addressing the necessary reforms in the country with political maturity, but above all with openness, with proposals to solve problems, with realism, perspective and vision for the future of civil society. A social state cannot be effective if it is not economically viable at the same time. At the same time, a pension scheme cannot be attractive if it has no remuneration between the benefits to the pensioner and the corresponding contributions paid. Finally, safeguarding social security presupposes that the system should maintain a balance between the remuneration of contributions and the degree of redistribution thereof. So in view of the above, we have redesigned the country's insurance system with the recent insurance reform of Law 4670/2020, and we have made use of the positive elements which have so far been demolished by Law 3863/2010, which you referred to so far. The use of these positive elements of the system, on the one hand, expresses political maturity and realism of the government, on the other, builds citizens' confidence in the political system. The reforms under Law 4670/2020 aim at strengthening the system’s reciprocity, strengthening the insurance consciousness and the attractiveness of the system, providing levels of freedom for freelance professionals, encouraging the development of their economic activities and initiatives. The interventions we have adopted are entirely compatible with the financial perspective of the country. In other words, the reform of the system took place while maintaining a balance between reciprocity and adequacy, while ensuring the viability of the system. I would remind you that Law 4670/2020 was accompanied for the first time by a full proportionate study covering all pension expenditure by 2070, by main and supplementary pensions, in order to provide scientific evidence of the government's decisions that are catalytic about the situation of the current pensioners and the future of the young people insured. Mr President, L.4670/2020 was also accompanied for the first time by a study to document the adequacy of pension benefits, highlighting the adequacy of benefits within the framework of the national economy, a study by the University of Athens. Please, dear colleague, don't say I'm avoiding answering. I wanted to make this prologue. I will respond to the specific issue you raise, analyzing the data and the laws that exist to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u43	Of course, Minister, I will not say that you are evading. Indeed, we expect you to answer. It is a serious matter, it is distributed and there must be clear information. We reiterate that Article 11(3) of Law 3683/10, which introduced this automatic adjustment mechanism for retirement age limits in relation to the life expectancy of the country's population and a reference point for the age of sixty-five years and the sixty-five years, for those who have insurance in more than thirty-five years or who wish to receive a reduced pension, with this law, therefore, retirement age limits from 1-1-2022 should be increased on the basis of the change in life expectancy. However, under the laws of 2010, namely Law 3863, Law 3865 and the Second Memorandum, Law 4993/12, increased both the specific and the general limits. In other words, the last one from 1-1-2013 from the sixty-fifth went to the sixty-seventh and sixty-sixth in the sixteenth. Even worse, of course, with the third memorandum you know that age limits have increased even more and sometimes went to twelve or more years. It's scary. The SYRIZA - ANEL government then, although it over-increased these age limits, did not - we thought it should be abolished - in this law, in 3863/10, this provision. He had to abolish it. The increase, in any case, has been made under the pressure of the troika - it is no longer possible to question it - and the new age limits go hand in hand with or above those of most European countries. Consequently, the provision of Law 3863/10, Minister, is essentially vacant now. It has no specific content, since the purpose has been overpaid. What else can be done, reaching the age limits of all insured persons and those who work, of course, in heavy goods from 1-1 to 2022 in the sixty-seventh year? With this data, it is not possible to discuss or leave open the possibility, I believe, of further increasing age limits after 2021. So, Minister, it would be useful for us, with the data as we have said - and in particular - to abolish this provision, in order to stop the agony of hundreds of thousands of workers, many of whom are on the verge of retirement. The conditions created by the years of the crisis and which, unfortunately, still exist today, have led hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens to unemployment, with incredible difficulties in joining the labour market, with problems. In fact, when it comes to people of a certain age, it is well known what difficulties they face. Many - to say it to the people, let me say it - had come to the source to drink water and failed to do so because of these constant increases. It is not possible, Minister - we have the opinion - to do so again. Nor can we consider that of most of the jobs and, above all, of the employees, they work for up to sixty-seven, or even after sixty-seven. It is true that for many decades these retirement age limits, particularly for workers in the so-called public sector, have been low. But it was not possible to move from one end to another. There can be no acceptance of this from either one of us. It cannot, of course, remain open to any further increase in the retirement age limits. And we repeat that the average corresponds to the average of the European Union, with upward trends, without calculating the provision in Article 11(3) of Law 3863/10. In the context of this, therefore, we as a Change Movement and in the context of the debate on current insurance law, namely Law No4670/20, have tabled this proposal - you know it - for the abolition of the automatic mechanism for increasing the retirement age limits based on life expectancy. Then there was no answer. We are waiting, Minister, for your reply. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Mulkiotis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Because it is technical, but also essential and political, you will allow me to have a little more time to reflect our thoughts and proposals through the text I hold in my hands, expressing the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour. In accordance with Article 11 of Law 3863/2010, which was established by a PASOK Government, and the retirement age limits of members of the social security institutions and of the State, independent of the time when the insurance was subject to insurance, were re-established when changing the life expectancy of the country's population with a reference point at the age of sixty-five years. Mr Mulkiotis, therefore, I say that this legislative act has been carried out at PASOK with Mr 3863/2010. This paragraph shall enter into force on 1 January 2021. In its first implementation, it shall take into account the change of the 2010 to 2020. From 1 January 2024 the above limits shall be redefined every three years. The adjustment of the retirement age limits is made by a joint decision of the Ministers for Economic and Social Security - Social Affairs - today - issued in the last year of each period on the basis of the relevant indicators identified by the Greek Statistical Authority and EUROSTAT for the following period. In 2015, with the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL through the Insurance Law 3336/2015, the retirement age limits were changed. As of 1 January 2022, the age limit for full-time pension entitlement is set at sixty-second year of age with forty-one or twelve thousand days of insurance and sixty-seven-seven-seven-th year of age with four and a half-three days of insurance, subject to the provisions of Article 11(3) of Law 3863/2010. At the same time, transitional provisions were laid down for the gradual increase of the age limits of insured persons not yet entitled to full or reduced pensions until the publication of Law 4336/2015. That's the reality. This is how the House has moved since 2010 with the rotation of the two governments. I would like to add something else at this point. At the same time as changing age limits, the health situation of people aged sixty plus has spectacularly improved. What does that mean? Mr President, I answer a question you raised with a little fun in the debate. This means that if we did not increase the retirement threshold then, sooner or later, either the pension system would have large deficits so that we would go to de facto pension reduction or lead to its collapse. One of them would have happened. Moreover, the reason why most European Union countries have moved on to an increase in the general pension threshold is because they leave working life a valuable experience in society as a whole. They still need it and it can offer the production process. In any case, however, because I consider the detail of our debate to be useful and because the above issue of raising age limits is crucial, I would like to clarify that it was not our Government, Mr Mulkiotis, the New Democracy Government, which recommended that the provision of adjusting age limits be made, but that the previous governments I historically wrote before, at a time when the insurance system created serious concerns and bleak prospects for its effects and the sustainability of the country's public finances. Today, the prospects of the social security system are different. We can now talk about a new era of the country's insurance system. Our own initiatives aim to encourage economic activity, to strengthen official employment by introducing an innovative free and flexible system for freelance professionals, by reducing non-wage labour costs, so that the system is strengthened by the growth of the economy and the confidence of the young generations. At the same time, with the creation for the first time of the National Social Security Agency “e - EVA” and the digitisation of all social security functions, we convert the pension award process from a multi-month process into a few-minute transaction. The pathogen of fifty years, over decades, is at the beginning of its end. I shall conclude, therefore, by mentioning that the Ministry of Labour did not plan or plan an increase in age limits. This is not a question of the medium-term horizon. After all, neither the age limits have been met in insurance reform 4670/2020, nor in the years required for the pension entitlement to be established. Our aim is to ensure the sustainability of the insurance system and future pensions in a sustainable national economy. In this direction we are working systematically and consistently to re-establish the confidence of workers in the insurance system, which is earned by the stability with clean rules and the country's development prospects. There is no concern and no uncertainty, therefore, about the insured and the future pensioners. Retirement time limits remain unchanged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u46	We move to the third with No 47/12-10-2020 topical question by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The redundancies and obstacles to trade union activity in the company of production and trading of optical goods "S.A. Bairamoglou ABEU’. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot comment on this big issue that was raised earlier in the debate with the question on the automatic mechanism for raising age limits. The Minister said that we have received all the positive elements of the reforms that have taken place in recent years. He says it is not his job to automatically adjust age limits based on life expectancy. Since it's not his issue, he obviously thinks it's a good thing. It says that people are not concerned, but it maintains such a measure that can be implemented at any time by any government, increasing the age limits of workers. The positive elements, of course, were precisely those: an increase in age limits and a reduction in pensions. This is what pensioners and workers live in. I'm coming to our point. The company ‘BYRAMOGLOU’ is one of the largest in the field of the production and marketing of optical goods with profitability throughout the previous period. In April and May, it took advantage of the favourable provisions of legislative acts by putting the majority of workers on a job contract suspension and, at the same time, proceeded to five redundancies in the last fortnight, invoking financial difficulties. Of course, it did not take into account the aspect that the workers put into her for difficulties these decontamination workers are facing, such as their pregnant women, etc. The beginning was on 9 September with the dismissal of a worker who had established trade union activity in the workplace. In an attempt by the trade union to talk to employers about redundancies, but also to inform the other workers, the employer refused to enter at least three times the trade union effort, of course invoked the koruna pandemic. Next week, from 21 to 25 September, the employer proceeded to another four redundancies. In the trade union's reopening attempt, after the second wave of redundancies, the company's employer held the same position by prohibiting trade union activity, with a peak on 28 September, when the union, together with the trade union delegation of workers in the medicine of the Athens Labour Centre, protested against redundancies, then we had the production of two elected trade unions in security at the request of the employer. What we ask, in order not to eat time, is whether the Minister intends to oblige the company to withdraw redundancies, to ensure the unobstructed intervention of the trade union and the exercise of trade union duties in the field. I'm waiting for your answer on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u48	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, Mr Katsotis, the question you ask me, as I understand it, raises two issues: unfair redundancies, as you describe them and you mean them, but also the application of the trade union law, as according to your question, has been violated in this case. I would first like to observe: I have stressed several times in this Chamber that the Ministry of Labour has as top priority and its task to ensure the protection of workers' working rights. After all, all our initiatives and actions to date, even within this difficult and unprecedented period of pandemic, are aimed at and implemented in this direction. In addition, the Ministry contributes with its instruments and tools to safeguard and respect the legality of the labour market, because legality in the labour market is a constant aim and objective. Therefore, in this particular case, in which you refer, I was informed by the APRC that this operation was checked and found to be lawful. In other words, it followed the existing legislation. Secondly, because you have referred indirectly to trade union activity, I will remind you that in our country trade union freedom and action is guaranteed in our Constitution, it is protected by international labour conventions, which take precedence over any other provision of law, in accordance with Article 26(1) of the Constitution, and it is regulated by the so-called trade union law 1264/1982. This is already known to you, and the relevant issues on this issue are provided for in Article 14 of this law and we do not need to repeat them. However, with your question, I am given the opportunity today to say that our Ministry is preparing a major necessary reform on the labour market. Among the provisions and the major changes we are preparing are the change in the trade union law 1264/1982, a law which, after forty years since it was adopted and implemented, has been innovative, necessary, operational, benefited from the whole framework of both workers and businesses, laid the foundations for the reform of the trade union movement, which, as we have said, is a pillar of our democracy. However, after thirty-nine years of implementation, the needs and conditions on the labour market are different. The framework of the trade union in Greece needs modernisation and update in order to meet the demands of the workers, to become attractive to its members and to respond to modern social and economic reality. After all, your voice through the demonstrations you make and your texts say that you wish and claim to have a trade union movement, which is unbroken, unmanufactured, representative and unfavourable. So there is the legislative initiative that we will bring to Parliament very soon. In every case, therefore, my dear fellow Member, what I would like to stress in closing my protagonists is that the Ministry of Labour is always present in the care of working rights and in the respect of labour legislation, while it is understood that there are unfair behaviours, abuses and abuses, which are dealt with under the existing legislation. I would ask you to specialize in your question in my dentistry, and I will respond in detail to every element of your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u50	Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Why would you answer your dentistry? You said the operation was found to be lawful by control. The redundancies and the prohibition of trade union interference in the workplace, which, according to L.1244, has the right to go to the place to speak to the workers, are therefore legitimate. However, through your position, you have confirmed all your leaks in the media in recent years about changing the trade union law and about scanning - so to speak - the trade union freedoms of workers. And, Minister, you should know that you don't play on a game with players who are dead horses. You play on a field that you have the few of you, the business groups and the many, the workers, are across the street who will not grant any rights they have won through very tough struggles. What they saw the light of publicity with the leaks that you were making about the new trade union law pour out in front of the Laskaris law and what we saw at the time with the fifteen thousand trade union redundancies. For you, according to the leaks you have made, are abolishing the protection of trade unions, which you will find against workers, because all workers claim their rights. Let's see who the trade unionist is to understand the meaning of this word. He is the one who comes in and claims the rights of workers, whether he is elected or not. For example, in the case of Bairamoglou, he is a member of the club, he is not elected. However, he made constant interventions against the company's attempt to impose such measures on workers. Does he have the protection, yes or no? Of course, Mr. 1264 says he doesn't have it. You now go further and say you won't have the one elected, because that's the leak you're leaking to the media. You are still going further and talking about the employer's right to sue the trade unionist and to be fired without the provision of Article 15 of Law 1264, according to which he must go there and if a decision is made to get fired. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASIOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So you change the law in order to guarantee the employer and to implement all this legislative framework, which you call 'the protection of workers' rights'. What rights are we talking about? What's left of the rights you're saying? What you have voted for the abolition of the national collective agreement on labour, on the abolition of collective agreements and on the associations of persons who, along with the employer, are people of the employer, sign contracts under the terms of an "employer"? So what are the rights you're protecting? So, are you referring to the redundancies that go on in the workplace when someone gets a head up? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Labour law has been completely overturned and has become employers' law. You continue where the previous people have stopped. You take all the "positive" of the previous ones, as you have said before about insurance. You took PASOK's "positive" and "positive" over the overthrows of SYRIZA's trade union law, as well as the "positive" in relation to the overthrows, the electronic vote, the "50+1" and all the rest, as well as the "lockout" with the strikes. All these positive things are taking place, of course, in order to implement their demands to prevent trade union activity, so that all these changes in the terms of wages and wages for workers can be implemented, and the position of workers who are already getting worse will be exacerbated by what you are planning to bring over the next eight hours and the arrangement, the abolition of overtime pay, and all that you are getting into the media. That is what the workers are trying to stop and come today and you say that the operation is lawful and that it may even order the police to arrest the trade unionists.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u52	Please, please, Mr Katsotis, we are very much behind the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u53	I shall conclude, Mr President. Well, I think that workers must draw their conclusions and organize their struggle so that they can stop and overthrow this policy that you are planning to implement in the next few years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u54	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u55	The debate with Mr Katsotis is always of interest because it is becoming a political and ideological debate. Yes, Mr Katsotis, we're going to make a big change in the trade union law. As I said before, this debate will take place in the House, not in secret, but in the face. Here you will have all the time to formulate your arguments, your opinions and your ideas and to look at the basis of these arguments. So we will be judged by society first and foremost by all the workers. I want to close this intervention for the trade union law only with something that I regard as my obligation. Mr Katsotis, we are not politically obsessed. One thing is a compass of our orientation, our political action: the good of Greece and the future generations. And because Greece needs to change and become a modern European country at all levels, so we have the courage and courage before the Greek people and workers to make the areas that we need, on the basis of the best European practices and the best guidelines that exist in Europe, to modernise the labour market, as is the case in the rest of Europe. The aim at the core of our policy is workers, because through these changes, ladies and gentlemen, what we are seeking is by improving the labour market, by creating more jobs, quality, better and better paid, and not by going to a model in which workers will enter a reasonable decline by demanding a low wage, without competitiveness and productivity. That is why we are a government of responsibility, which is why society trusts us, and that is why we are here to open roads for the future. That is why we will bring the law here, Mr Katsotis, so that after forty years we can change the trade union law by bringing a new trade union law that protects the trade union movement, will change a lot for the better and will make it better for workers and trade unions themselves. I shall now refer to your question. I begin with unjust redundancies, as you call them, of workers. To start with, in order to support your argument, you said that this company with huge profitability took advantage of the workers and then took advantage of the arrangements that we have adopted by the provisions of Act 64/14-3-2020 - that is, we have just entered the pandemic - and then that the company had invoked financial difficulties to lay off them. However, the truth is different, as all the measures that we have taken during the pandemic period and which you refer to in the specific legislative acts have been taken to protect workers so that they do not lose their jobs, not to shut down companies and, more generally, not to collapse the labour market. However, for us the fight to maintain legality in the labour market and to protect workers' rights from all forms of arbitrary action, as I have said, is of primary importance. That is why, with the help of the APRC and its employees, who always operate under the Constitution and the laws, we always take care of all the issues, where they arise, in accordance with the existing legislation, even during this difficult period, during which the audit work was very difficult for the APRC auditors, because they are also people. We have proved by means of acts that we are next to every worker in order to comply with measures and legislation and thus ensure health and safety at the workplace. In any case, on the issue raised by the company you mentioned, the Labour Relations Inspectorate of the West Athens Sector informed me that on 10-9-2020 a redundant employee of the company came and filed a request for a work dispute, on the subject of his unfair and abusive dismissal of trade union activity as a member of the Trade Union of Pharmacos - Cosmetics and Cosmetics of Professions of Attica - Piraeus and Islands. On the same day, this trade union with its document asked to attend the discussion of the labour dispute, which was set for 21 October 2020, that is to say in a week from now. It hasn't happened yet. In other words, this meeting is still pending and will take place in a few days' time, Wednesday. However, you have today denounced the operation without even knowing the effect of the labour dispute. So I continue by saying: On 29-9-2020, with a new document, the trade union has denounced further redundancies of two more employees from this company. In fact, one of these two redundant workers is an elected member of the trade union and came on 6 October 2020 with a request for a work dispute with the same subject of discussion. I would like to point out here that, for the mere members of the trade union organisation, the provision for protection of Law No 1264/1982 does not apply, because, in accordance with Article 14(6) of the above law, the protection is granted up to seven founding members for the size of a company, which they have to inform the company from the outset, by depositing the association's statutes. Otherwise, the dismissal will be considered void. But in this particular case we do not have that. Apart from this, and following an investigation carried out through the information system ‘ERGAN’, the company appears to be active in the manufacturing of medical instruments and supplies, employing a total of nine persons of different specialties. From 1/42020 to 31-5-2020, he suspended or extended the suspension of eighty-one employees. At the end of that date, the company made a complaint of contracts of employment with the first to take place on 3-7-2020 as a result of the completion of the retirement limit for the worker. Subsequently, the second complaint of a worker contract was made in July 2020 with the last date of employment of 15-7-2020. Therefore, there was no infringement of the forty-five days limit imposed on the nullity of dismissals by suspensions of employment contracts in accordance with the legislation in force. However, the case is still under way, as there will be newer cases after the discussion of the 21-10-2020 labour dispute. Last, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u56	Finish it, please. You've been in six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u57	With regard to the obstacles you are claiming to have entered the trade union activity of workers, as I have said in my prototype, this is guaranteed, that is to say, protection by Law 1264/1982 under specific conditions. And since you said that the company refused to see workers invoking the pandemic, I must inform you that in the context of the exceptional and temporary measures taken for the labour market, in order to deal with and limit the proliferation of the COVID -19, the legislation on the protection of trade union rights and the subsequent trade union activity has not been amended. The members of the trade unions may, therefore, be granted access to the premises of undertakings, but always without prejudice to the conditions and guidelines laid down by the EGE. However, if workers wanted to get in the area, they could ask for the assistance of health and safety inspectors and enter, which they never asked for. In addition, the Agency has not accepted a request for reconciliation. I therefore understand your protest unfounded and vague, since the procedures provided for were not complied with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u58	I would ask as much time as possible, because he has eight more time-consuming questions. We are now entering the first under number 37-9-10-2020 of the Second Cycle of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skourletis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on 'Ineffective measures in the care units of the elderly'. The State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs Domna Michailidou, will answer. Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, obviously the last case is in your knowledge in the care unit of the elderly, in Glyfada, you will have heard of the "Taxiarches" in Attica, about "Saint Sunday" in Thessaloniki, about another unit in Agios Panteleimon, about another unit in Moschato, "Estia Papageorgiou" in Thessaloniki, about another care unit for the elderly in Nea Makri, about Maroussi, about Yannina and among them there is an illegal oldest house in Serres. There is the question of how much but still there are. The state on its part has been quite late since we entered Lockdown, taking the first steps in the first wave of pandemic in August has formulated some protocols so that the virus does not enter these units, is identified in time, that there are measures to prevent any further transmission. Here is a picture of the populations who have a great vulnerability, more than anything to suffer the consequences of the pandemic of the nursing homes. And the question is: From August to now is there any evidence? Do we have any records? Have they been everywhere - not sparsely and where - persistently, systematic tests for workers, for people who are inmates in these units? We warned you. What about all this? I do not know if you attended this weekend, in the light of today's debate, the live reports of television stations that were outside these units, which showed that none of them are being observed, but no prevention measures. The supply was made without any preventive measures being taken. Maybe, after all, if we leave things uncontrollably, we're in front of a health tragedy? In any case, Minister, I would like to hear exactly what is happening to you. Because you realise that we all have an obligation on these ages. Solidarity between generations is not just fine words. It must be confirmed by specific measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Skourletis, thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to inform you, the National Representation and, of course, our fellow citizens of all these actions which our Ministry and our Government have taken in both the first and second waves of this pandemic, so that, as you have said quite rightly and we fully agree with you, we can shield these structures within which our most vulnerable citizens, the elderly, the grandparents and our grandparents live. The protection of vulnerable and vulnerable groups is therefore our absolute priority and we always act at the level of organisation and planning, but also at the level of implementation, in accordance with the instructions of the Ministry of Health Experts' Committee. What did we do? We managed in the first wave to have in Greece very few cases in closed structures. Only a few cases in closed structures, very few casualties and even in closed public structures, do we not have a single case. It was no coincidence that there were no other countries in Greece, as in your written question you referred, like Sweden, Spain, France, the United Kingdom, countries with systems and systems of welfare for decades, far more advanced than ours. However, we have succeeded and stood in the first, and I dare say in the second wave. That's why? Because we shielded our structures, in fact, if you want, almost literally, both with protocols and with recruitment. I would like to remind you here that the 50 two structures of the welfare centres of all Greece became five hundred recruitments. Five hundred recruits were a third increase in their workforce, and that is exactly why we managed to get this situation, to have zero cases and very few in closed public prosperous structures in our country. So what did we do? We shielded the structures, helped the guests and ensured the proper conditions for workers in these structures. On 31 August, I announced, as State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, that our Ministry, in addition to its defined responsibilities, is responsible for the coordination of all stakeholders. There you know - and you know from your previous hat - and better than me that the regions are primarily responsible for monitoring the operational rules and the health protection of these bodies, as they are making the authorisation of the MMFs in our country. In addition to the regions, it has, however, been considered necessary to strengthen cooperation, since it is possible for these bodies to function in the regions, the needs for the treatment of pandemic, but it requires the involvement of the institutions of the central state, so that we have taken the necessary concrete steps to organise, if you like, the coordination of all the bodies involved. First of all, as you said, I think we have also drawn up new structured protocols, the strictest of all of Europe. Secondly, continuous protocol-keeping checks both by the National Transparency Authority, the General Secretariat for Consumer Protection and the local regions, in which we are constantly calling for them to be made more dynamic in the performance of their duties. The third measure is the continuous conduct of molecular tests by the EGE throughout the country and, last but not least, the adoption - together with the National Transparency Authority - of a guide to safe behaviour of workers, a step that has been taken for the first time in their behaviour both within and outside structures. At the same time, we have set up special bodies responsible for the coordination of all the relevant bodies, that is to say, at central political level, the Committee on the Protection of Disabled Groups and at the technical level of the Coordination Committee. The political level was coordinated last week and took two very specific conclusions. The first is the two-week molecular test by the EGE in the vulnerable elderly - two weeks old, I repeat - and the second is the universal update of the EGE's molecular control programme, as well as protocol-keeping checks by the National Transparency Authority and the General Secretariat for Consumer Protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u63	Madam Minister, today we have 19 October. We're not in August. You came to tell us so many months after what you announced in August. There are specific test numbers, for specific tests carried out, where, in what time, what number and those tests did they give? I see that through life itself, reality, when we learn a case, then we come in firefighting, after all to deal with it. Do not compare situations and things that are unparalleled. Do not talk about the European reality that the structure of society is completely different. Here you know that units as a whole, private and public, are much less because there is a different formation in Greek society. It is the Greek family who is responsible for the care of grandparents and grandparents. Right here - to open a parenthesis - it is a great responsibility for you as government, because it is precisely this structure of the Greek family that you are torpedoing in the way you opened the schools. This structure of the Greek family with the semimeters, with the curiosity and unscheduledness that you have in the field of health as a whole, puts it at risk. That is why we have been driven today to have this unrest in the educational community, because students are asking for the majority of what is self-evident, that is to say there are sanitation conditions for schools to function and you are aggressively coming here, and you are allegedly denounce the opposition that the schools want shut down. Oh, no. Open schools, but in terms of hygiene, protection of children's own children, the educational community, and their families and grandparents. That's why all this is interconnected. I think that in your reply you have confirmed this sloppyness which characterises your Government in dealing with pandemic, at least in the second phase. The first phase was easy. Lockdown is specific. Stage two needs planning. So August shouldn't have arrived to take action. From August until now, you should not have said anything new. So have you assessed these measures? How have they rendered them? What exactly has happened? Is there a need for something new? None of this is contained in your answer. You also made a hint about the regions. I don't know. Didn't you make it? Say it. Mr Patulis speaks of everything, but I have not seen him here appear. Do we know the licensing issues? Are there? Do all the units or the last indent of the Serres of the illegal home finally be accompanied by other cases of illegal structures? All of these are unanswered questions, so that we do not finally get there, Minister, in situations which are explosive and which lead to social conflicts. On your side as much communication as you can buy and place on the market, problems are not covered. That's why the educational community is on the streets. We have seen something that shocked us, what was mentioned before and by a colleague from anti-population, a student from Thursday until now has been locked in the ballaur because he has claimed hygiene conditions. Madam Minister, vadish vavo as a government now? Things have reached a limit state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u64	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. I fear, Mr Skourletis, that you do not want me here, but that you want the Minister or the Minister of Education, but I will try to answer the part of my question. Mr. Skourletis, no phase of the pandemic is easy. I hope you said that in the hole of your speech. No phase of pandemic is easy for any country, for no government, for no citizens, nor for the first, nor for the second, I hope that there will be no third, but no phase of pandemic for any one of us and especially for those of our fellow citizens who have lost their lives or lost their lives and loved ones. About comparing things unparalleled, to be honest, I don't like comparisons. In your question, I found the report in Sweden. However, let us say this: the housing units of the elderly in our country are not very small. We have three hundred eight hospitality units of the elderly and fifty two state structures. In private homes there are thirteen thousand of our fellow citizens, seven thousand workers working and almost four thousand work in public. So the numbers, unfortunately, aren't small. You ask me about the checks that have been carried out and whether we have numbers and whether there is an irreorganization in our government. I think the last thing our government has to show and the last thing it has to do is show our ministry and the last thing it has to show my State Department is anorganization. That is why we entered before the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to coordinate all the relevant bodies. Because, as you know, the competent bodies are many. They are the independent authorities, they are the Ministry of Health, they are EGEY, they are the regions, so of course the numbers and there are specific numbers since 31 August, and it was not at all too late. Our response was immediate in this respect. Numbers are therefore in two cases: there are the figures for the checks carried out by the National Transparency Authority and the General Secretariat for Consumer Protection in respect of compliance with the protocols, and the second one is the EGE's molecular tests. Numbers, then, you asked, I give you numbers. From August 31st until today in the first part, that is to say, keeping protocols, there have been two hundred eight controls throughout the country. Most of these tests have been found to comply with the structure operating protocols. In thirty cases, however, - these are elements today - infringements have been detected, mainly in the archiving of the thermometer file, but also in the daily questionnaire we have asked all workers and administrations to testify. In these two cases, infringements have been found and fines have been imposed forty-five thousand euros. I would remind you here that our government in my Ministry doubled the fines with the last legislative intervention we made. The second thing about the molecular controls of the EGE. In particular, from August 31st to today, molecular tests have been carried out by the EGE in two hundred fifty two structures. In two hundred and fifty, then, these structures have been carried out more than once molecular tests, and this has either been done with the special algorithms of the EGE's extensive sampling, or they have become universal, such as in Lesvos or elsewhere. Additional programme in this is the rapid test, which the EGE is now doing and has begun. So we have - I say it again, because you like the numbers - two hundred eight protocol keeping checks by EAFRD and the EAFRD, two hundred fifty two structures in which molecular tests have been carried out by the EAFRD, rapid test added to these checks. As to the part of your question if our Ministry is doing something to already offer health or tests to hospitality units of the elderly, but also to public structures, yes it does something. He's in cooperation with the Ministry of Development. We are in the process of ripening the invitation that will also be tested in order to help private structures, so that with the help of the State, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and the Ministry of Development can provide additional assistance to these structures, whether they be in relation to the gloves and masks they wear, whether they are in terms of the tests that they have to carry out at a sufficiently high frequency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, too, Minister. We continue with the first, with number 57/12-10-2020, a top-level question from the Member of the Lakonia Parliament, Mr Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister for Health, on 'Health protection measures from the koroni virus during the harvest period'. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. The object of this parliamentary intervention is an evolving phenomenon, which - I would say - is a side-effect in the more general problem called "pandemic, COVID -19, coronary". As you are obviously aware, Minister, this period throughout the Greek region and especially in the south, the period of oil collection, the collection of olives is evolving. The period for the collection of citrus fruits will shortly begin. This means that a great potential of land workers is directed in various ways in the Greek region. These people are vulnerable to pandemic phenomenon, as it emerged about twenty-five days ago in the Laconia Prefecture and especially in the Eurota Municipality. This has been the case since the communist, I would say, has created a way of life for these people so that this can be done. On 25 September, in a sample of fifty-four people, there were thirty-two positive ones. Immediately sealed the area. An abandoned primary school was offered on good terms, and these people were isolated so that we could curtail the problem. What is the object and purpose of my intervention is the general shield of the Greek region from such phenomena that are caused mainly by these kinds of earth workers, these people who come for a piece of bread from every side of the earth or from every side of the Greek region, to protect themselves and, on the other hand, to protect the local society that is at risk from these problems. I believe that this phenomenon and the experience of the special community that puts forward and focuses on the problem is something that should be particularly concerned with the government and the political leadership of your ministry. We've done quite well at all levels with regard to the coronary. However, as we often say and you know 'the last of them, each of them before they exist is judged'. According to the latest outcome, everything is judged, as was the great orator of antiquity. I will listen with great interest to your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u68	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Davakis, the National Committee of Experts set up and the National Agency for Public Health since the first day of the pandemic in our country have been working on, announce and ultimately implement a series of measures to deal with the coronary pandemic. These are measures which have in practice brought very concrete results and have contributed substantially to the prevention of the spread of the pandemic. The results of this effort are well known not only in Greece but abroad. The fact that the situation is currently under control is largely due to these measures and to our fellow citizens who have respected them faithfully. The specific case referred to in your question, of the olive harvesting farms and of the more general work, does not differ in substance with regard to the methods and practices to be followed, in order to avoid virus dispersal effects during the performance of a task. The directives which have been given are clear. Mostly as regards your question when moving with the CBS or other means of public transport, it is compulsory to use a mask. Distances are required and therefore the number of passengers is specific. The proper ventilation of the media is also necessary. Throughout harvesting in rural areas, there is a need to avoid confusing phenomena. The same applies to accommodation for staff, where there should be no co-responsibility phenomena. It is very important that controls are carried out in this direction, because we all know that the land workers are usually confused. Therefore, there are measures. It's very specific. In addition, checks shall be carried out to ensure that they are complied with. In any case, we are in constant readiness, and in this way we are intervening every time in the necessary steps to ensure public health for our citizens. For this reason, allow me a brief comment on what has happened, how we managed the crisis in the Eurota Municipality. About three thousand fast tests were carried out. During ten days all earth workers were checked, more than a thousand three hundred, thus avoiding further spreading of the virus. By the end of the tests, these workers abstained from work. Four EGE's mobile health units have attempted in the wider region. All positive cases have been isolated in separate structures, where they have been subject to medical supervision, and all close contacts have also been placed at home. A sufficient number of masks were distributed to land workers from the Municipality of Eurota through the CEDEFOP. It was decided and carried out to monitor the movements of land workers to and from the area in question. It was also decided for residents to carry out tests on those who collaborate or have come into contact with the land workers, as well as compulsory use of a mask on their part in all indoor areas. Therefore, Mr Davaki, where and whenever necessary we are ready to intervene and to do with plan and effectiveness what we need to do, so as to ensure the health of citizens and, in particular, public health. Our aim is to have a pandemic evolution under control and to be able to function as an impediment to any possibility of its rejuvenation, and that is what we are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u70	Mr Davakis, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u71	After expressing my satisfaction at the accuracy of the illustration of events, which have already been done, I wanted to bring the matter back to my first speech and say that this is the subject of the particularity of these people we are talking about. It is not a static assumption that these land workers, who work in a particular place, are carrying out checks on the eves of the EGE, and from there we have been quiet for a long time. It is an animated assumption that these people are going where they find partition and where there is plant production and demand for work hands. The adjacent municipality of the Municipality of Eurota, the Municipality of Monemvasia, already has about a thousand people of land workers with poor health structures. The Naples Health Centre, for example, has a great staff problem, as well as the central health centre in the Eurota Municipality, the Vlachoti Health Centre, which, Minister, makes us ashamed because it faces these problems. I am tabling a document setting out the specific problems facing the Health Centre Vlachoti. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Davakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would ask him to have a special treatment right now from the Ministry of Health's political leadership. I know that it belongs by service to the 6th Health Region, but what it is facing is too much and is weak for the medical and health staff who are there working and who are in fact responsible for dealing with it. There are also various issues which must be clearly defined either by law or otherwise, Mr Minister. If one is detected with the coronary virus, who is responsible for intervening? There was a meeting of all these bodies, representatives of the National Committee, the EGE stadium, mayors, district, etc., and everyone, in some abstraction of the whole debate, said that we are all volunteers. I can't hear this that we're all volunteers in such a pandemic. What are the obligations of the municipalities? The two mayors of Eurota and Monemvasia heroically intervened on the phenomenon. What are their obligations? What principle defines - and I would like there to be clarification in this - which areas will be used as quarantine areas? We found the primary school, a devastated municipal school in the area, and we put these people on this fourteenth week. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall now conclude, Mr President. I'm asking for a little tolerance. Furthermore, the Municipality of Monemvasia, which is - I repeat - an adjacent municipality, must have a step in the EGE there as regards these people with special legal status. Unfortunately, these people have a form of irregularity about what this has to do with the control they must have, and so on. I repeat, the echelons of EGE must be increased and the Municipality of Monemvasia must have a step by step of EGE. There must also be a shield from Vlachoti's Health Center, which - I repeat - is in a very bad state, as regards the problem facing the region with the land workers. These people must be protected. There must be special care for these people, because - I stress - that twenty-five - thirty people are joined together in houses not in the best terms of hygiene, as well as because of social automation that can be caused, in terms of the effect of pandemic on local society. These are all issues which, as experience has gained from this problem. I think that the municipalities and the region should also be financially strengthened, so that they can, in more precise terms, do what they need to do if these issues come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u72	Yeah, good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u73	I'm closing, Mr. President. I think it needs to be defined - I repeat - what the obligations of the municipalities are clearly, as they are the closest to the problem of an administrative entity, and who is responsible for the establishment of quarantine sites. Also, I must - and I am coming back to this - and the adjoining Municipality of Monemvasia should be included in the EGE programme, i.e. there should be an enhanced step in EGE and in the Monemvasia Municipality, as it exists in the Municipality of Eurota. Also, the Vlachoti Health Center - I say it for a multiplier time, because I must say it - must finally be strengthened with suggestions and directions to the 6th Health Region, which has been seconded by medical personnel, with legitimate reasons, by the Centre for Health Vlachoti and has taken them to other regions, in Patras, etc. That is what I had to say briefly. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u74	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Davaki, I understand your concern, of course, but let me once again assure you that such cases, like the one in the Municipality of Eurota, have been managed in the past during the pandemic and, of course, there are plans and protocols on how to deal with such a situation. As far as the role of each institution is concerned, let me say that Civil Protection is responsible for tracing the incidents and then, of course, is followed by the National Agency for Public Health, who is investigating these incidents. You will give me the opportunity to say once again that an important factor in the success of the management to date of the pandemic is the system of tracing the confirmed cases and the close contacts of these cases, the whole system of traceability, from the Civil Protection and the investigation of these incidents by the National Agency for Public Health. This system enables us to get in depth and with sufficient capacity to deal with the incidents. I will also say something else that, in the case of the Municipality of Eurota, tests have also been carried out in the adjacent municipalities and as many areas as needed to be traced. I would also like to emphasise the good and constructive cooperation of the Department of Public Health and Social Welfare in the Peloponnese Region with the National Agency for Public Health, so that we can deal effectively with this situation. Thank you for the comments you made about the Health Center Vlachoti. We'll take them into account. Our aim is to strengthen not only health centres but also all structures. Let me remind you that it is not just the staircases of the National Public Health Agency, because we realise that they cannot be found at all times in all parts of the country. This pandemic battle has also entered health centres. At the moment, sixty health centres, a subset of the country's health centres, have been in the fight against the pandemic, where every citizen can come to them, assess the incident and, if necessary, carry out diagnostic tests for the coronary and, of course, follow all the procedures and protocols that the experts have recommended to us. Once again, I would like to stress that we are aware of the specific nature of the situation. We know how to manage it. We know the road is ahead of us. We still have similar cases to manage, because it is harvesting and, of course, all other cases of land workers. I believe that we have the knowledge and experience, with efficiency and successfully and with sufficient capacity, as we have done so far, to do so from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u76	We enter the third under number 31/6-10-2020 in the first cycle question V Vice President of the Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The Panarcadal Tripolis Hospital remains." And this question will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, today is an important day. There were in the morning at the "Salvation" Hospital, in which I have worked several years, the opening of the 50 beds. We are very pleased that the proposal of the Change Movement, which was an essential proposal, has been implemented by the President of Parliament and by the Government and today, in the next few years, we have more than fifty beds. I would like to take this opportunity to continue for the Panarcad Hospital. I think you know a lot of things from Arcadia. You're from Arcadia. So you can also know about doctors, whom we honor and thank them, because there is a generation of doctors, nurses and other staff who keep the Panarcas Hospital upright. However, despite the last four of the five recruitments made in the TLP, there are major issues. I've been analyzing them for you. First of all, it's the issue of Paediatric surgery. We haven't had pediatric surgery in two years. These are the issues that concern all the clinics. I do not want to say in detail, but I will tell you, for example, that in a few days' time the only agent we have left will leave. The problems in CT and microbiological know them very well. The issues relating to the ORL Clinic and the other clinics have come either by memos or by public announcements by doctors themselves. Is the question, Minister, whether there is a programming for the next period, so that Panarcadiki can meet the needs of people, citizens, so that they do not have to come to Athens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Constantinople, thank you for your reference to the present opening of the Intensive Therapy Unit, a modern-day single of fifty beds, which would really be jealous of developed states, which is a donation of the Greek Parliament. This means that this unit is a donation to all Greeks. And it's very important for another reason, because the original programming was the intensive treatment unit to be completed within sixty days, which is what happened. So we have a great donation of the Greek Parliament, which has been completed within the planned period of time and makes us proud of all the Greeks, we are satisfied with the government and the Ministry of Health that completed this work and is put at the disposal of the Greek people and, of course, reminds us once again of the great responsibility we have, so that we can meet the needs of citizens for quality and effective health services. As regards your question about the Panarcadal Hospital in Tripoli, at the end of your question it is stated that it is at risk that the hospital will become a health center or a patient hospital in time. This is not going to happen, nor will it become a health centre much more degraded. The Tripolis Hospital, the Panarcad Hospital, has one particular thing. It is located in the centre of the Peloponnese and its role is increased. It does not only serve the needs of a county. And in the light of its geographical point and the services it needs to offer, there is genuinely a plan to upgrade and modernise and be a reference point for the wider region. Since the first time we took our duties at the Ministry of Health, we have taken all the necessary steps, so that the hospital of our homeland, Mr. Constantinople, can be strengthened with permanent staff. You referred to the TLP crises. Let me remind you, let me remind the House, that these crises have been pending since 2018 and we have completed them, and unfortunately they should have been completed a long time ago. We have found them, and we have completed them, and the other crises pending on the relevant crisis councils are completed in the next few weeks and the appointments of these doctors will be immediately published. Of the two notices of medical staff published in 2020, we expect a total of 12 recruitments to the degree of curator II in the specialties of cardiology, urology, radiology, surgery of children, surgery, gastroenterology and medical biopathology. This means that twelve doctors of various specialties will be integrated into the hospital's human health potential by the end of the year. This is how we are launching both the coverage of gaps and the existing shortcomings of clinical trials. More specifically, the Urological Clinic will cover the departures of the two doctors with two new recruitments. One and two doctors will join the microbiological and radiological department respectively. The Surgery Clinic will also be strengthened. These recruitments are not the end, but they are the beginning of a series of recruitments based on the programming we have done for the years to come. And of course these recruitments do not solve the problems, but they give a breath. I will agree with you that we need to look forward to seeing what's coming. The retirements of the next three years will create new gaps, which we must cover. We all know that the National Health System has completed its pension years. Doctors who have entered the health system since 1983 founded and then retired in recent years, and we must take this into account. I stressed - and I would like to stress again - that it is the Panarcadian Hospital of Tripoli which serves not only Arcadia but also the wider region of the Peloponnese and we intend to strengthen it not only in staff but also in new services. It is known, for example, that the Peloponnese needs to operate a radiotherapy centre. Because - as you have said - citizens should not go to Athens, but they should be served at their place. And the creation of this centre will give breath and solution to problems that afflict the inhabitants not only of Arcadia, but also of the wider region of the Peloponnese. Therefore, new services, modernisation of infrastructure and medical equipment and, of course, integrated human resources planning. I would like to assure you that we will create a hospital that will meet the demands of the people of the Peloponnese, providing corresponding health services. In fact, our great goal is to function in such a way as to prevent our fellow citizens from coming to the major hospitals in Athens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'm not a petty politician. I was very proud of that title that it had at the Panarcadian Hospital, that it was a regional hospital that really met the needs of the wider region. However, I want to be absolutely honest, in recent years, unfortunately he has not been entitled to this title. It started from previous years, problems began from the issues relating to the difficult economic period and in the last four years it has deteriorated on many levels - we know that and I do not need to criticise it, all people know it - and now there are more problems. So, if only, we want it, we're fighting for it, but we're not in this area. Let's go to the second level: look, there's an indication that you understand it, and I'm very happy to see it. The fact is that a generation of doctors and nurses, but mostly doctors, will retire over the next two years. That's a great generation. It's not just Tripoli, it's all over Greece. This is an objectively big problem for the country and for the hospitals. Thirdly, with regard to the twelve doctors: I hope that the twelve doctors will have a time limit for these procedures. Did you see what you said? We started three years ago, and we got them out now. So I want you to answer these twelve doctors about when the procedures will proceed. Fourthly, Minister, I wish the Radiation therapeutics to take place. There have been procedures, we have said so, you tell the government, the ministers, but so far nothing has been done. Now I will give you an example, which you need to understand and you need to find a way to solve. So when in a clinic, in the ORL, we have a permanent doctor and an adjunctary, how is it going to work? I don't want to tell you the rest. All examples are characteristic. The hospital's marginal. I want to tell you again that the doctors holding the hospital, the nurses, who are at an age, are tired of people - we say they are heroes - they really fight for the hospital in adverse conditions. I'm telling you, because I know them one by one. First, Mr Minister, what is the period when these twelve doctors come and what are these specialties? When do you think the X-ray therapy will work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u82	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Constantinople, at least we all agree on finding out the problems, but we have to agree that the problems are not solved from one moment to the next. The distortions and shortcomings of the past cannot be resolved in this short period of time. Like I told you, there's a plan. Recruitment or planning of recruitments are not just done to make them. They're targeting these recruitments. I am sure these twelve recruitments of permanent staff are not enough, but they give a breath. Of course, I would remind you and say, because I said so in my prototype, that by the end of the year these doctors will be in their seats. I want to be clear, I said it in my prototype. Also, let us not forget that all the structures of the National Health System and Panacarcadian have been strengthened by auxiliary personnel during the Kronovir period. It is not only the medical staff who support a hospital, it is also the nursing staff, it is the administrative staff, it is also the other staff and it needs support on these issues too. As far as the Radiotherapy is concerned, there is a pre-treatment beforehand. I believe that in a very short time we will be able, because there is a more general planning for radiotherapy in the country, to announce - because I tell you it is our priority - the construction and operation of a radiotherapy centre in Tripoli to serve the needs of the Peloponnese. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u84	The fifth will be discussed under No 32/6-10-2020 in the first cycle of the Seers MP of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boumbas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Unjustity against the Greek fighter of Cyprus". And this question will be answered by Mr Contozamanis. Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good evening. Thank you, Minister. This issue - I will be allowed to speak - is a two-tier thing. And it is two-way, because it has its legal and moral dimension. There are judicial decisions, Mr Minister, which they deserve, and they are irrevocable. It is the decision 816/2015 by the Court of Appeal of Thessaloniki. But there is also the decision of the Council of State 1355. What do these decisions say? There is the law that justifies Mr Constantine Papatheodorou as a crippled and victim of the 1974 war, which has been destroyed since 2009 and 2010. So it comes out after a decade of the Council of State and says that the hospital canal was not badly given to this 1974 fighter. This man has been in an incredible suffering. Behind Constantine Papatheodorou, however, there are too many fighters at that time of '74. At least in my prototype, I want to say right now who is Constantine Papatheodorou. He is a man who fought in '74 in Cyprus, holding and guarding 'Third gates' in an unequal battle then, in the suburbs of Nicosia, in the Kionelli district, where three hundred and seventeen Turks faced seven thousand Turks. If Nicosia then fell, today the map of the pseudo - emperor and the occupants would be different. So you realise that according to the British Military Academy, this battle is seen as a "Thermopylon battle" of modern political history. Here, then, in the picture I am showing you, there is the award of Mr. Konstantinos Papatheodorou by the then Minister of State, Mr. Meimarakis. Here is Mr Papatheodorou who, as a victim of war, opens the parade in the co-chair, Thessaloniki, to the national anniversaries. And here, of course, there's the medal, as it's been decorated. It is a medal of manhood by Constantine Papatheodorou, who has permanent leg disability and asks Themida for the selfless, what the old law gave him, Mr. The handicapped of war and victims of war, Greek justice, with a disability of more than 80% precedes, in order to have this benefit as a moral satisfaction to the war struggle. They are entitled to this law. So, under this law, Mr. Konstantinos Papatheodorou with permanent disability, a '74 warrior, is entitled to take the Serres Hospital's candle, which remains closed, because he has entered this silencing effort and is justified both by the court and by the CF. But this situation continues and is becoming a new adventure. She's seventy years old. When will this man be vindicated if this legal procedure continues to apply to the justice he expects, on the basis of judicial decisions, to take over the cave as a disabled war? If this situation is to continue, man will reach a very high age. At least that's Costantine Papatheodorou. The government was right to give 200 euros to the fighters in '64, '67 and '74. However, if this situation persists with these fighters - veteran warriors with permanent disabilities - because there is also the war syndrome that causes them psychosomatic problems - we should be held as a society, as a Parliament of prestige for the issue of war veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u86	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Bouba, there is indeed a legal dispute between the General Hospital of Serres and a private person to be granted the concession for exploitation of the hospital canteens. According to the information we have from the administration of the Serres Hospital, on 9 November 2020 a private person's request to be recognised as the sole beneficiary of the Cylon review will be discussed before the Council of State. Whatever I tell you, it's the court's decision that will prevail. Of course, it goes without saying that the administration of the hospital will comply with this decision by carrying out it, as it has so far done in any judicial decision. With regard to the issues you raise in the timely question, I have the following answer: The administration of the Serres Hospital is obliged to comply with any decision taken by a court, as is required to exhaust all actions before it, so as to ensure the public interest and the legality of the case. We cannot interfere with the work of justice. We respect justice. In any case, we also respect the hospitals' self-interest. There are administrations and, as part of their role, they must take decisions, for which, of course, they are controlled in compliance with the legality of these decisions. But that's it. I would like to reiterate that in any case the hospital, the hospital administration should ensure the public interest and the legality. There are procedures and these are initiated by all hospitals and their administrations. Exemptions may not be made in cases where the canteens are exploited without intervention by anyone. When the laws are respected, then, everything else is unnecessary. In this case - I repeat - we expect the final decisions of the Council of State, which will be implemented in full by the administration of the General Hospital of Serres. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Booba, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Clearly we're not a court. Themida will decide. I would just like to submit the minutes on number 1355/2019, a decision of the Council of State, which says that the hospital canal was illegally not given from 2009 and 2010. So this man was psychologically afflicted. You realize what adventure she has experienced, but also what adventure she is still living, because she is entering this great, long, painful ten-year process until the decisions are made at the beginning, final and irrevocable of all the grades of Themida. Also, what has tempered him morally this man and psychosomatically are decisions such as this decision I will table in the Minutes, which are the minutes of the administration of the Serres Hospital, which in November 2019 complies with the Council of State and gives him the management of the Cylon. Here, there are the minutes of the decision on 5 November 2019. There are signatures because they respect the decision of the Council of State. And suddenly, once the new commander of the hospital has taken it, he's changing the decision, while the decision of the Serre Hospital in 2019 was to give it to him. In fact, they went to open illegally after a few months the cage was again sealed. Yesterday we had statements from the new commander of the hospital, who, according to his interpretation of the legal advisers and mentors of the hospital, changed the decision of November 2019 - that is, shortly after the decision of the Council of State - the administration of the Serres Hospital, that is to say a year ago, and says: "I will proceed to a new competition, because it is not clearly stated that Mr Papatheodorou - according to the commander and legal advisers - is taking over the cage", despite the decisions of the appeal court and the Council of State. There is also a 2014 law that the European Union says is revoking the law in the oldest year of 1980, Law 1344 for the disabled of war. The European Union, which has never been the "Carbon and Steel Union" eventually remains "Carbon Union" with these laws, cannot really reward the disabled of war and fighters after 2014. In any case, here is an issue concerning a fighter, a fighter of Cyprus, a man who actually gave the masses of what they say "for guarding Thermopylae" in the modern battle of Nicosia. His adventure, unfortunately, continues. At the moment, man is experiencing a psychosomatic Golgotha because he has been afflicted for over a decade and apparently there is no respect for the decisions of justice. So in the eyes of Constantine Papatheodorou they are the fighters who seek justice. It is a subject for which there are many reports and many articles on Constantine Papatheodorou and what he offered. Look, there's a law, Mr.2519/1997, which says what you said, Minister, that hospitals should safeguard their interests, that is to say they should offer easier services and have revenues with certain activities such as candles. This law, however, when there is another law, n.1044, which, regardless of whether it has been abolished after 2014 by the European Union, can outweigh this law and morally must be given to a handicapped war, as the law says, with more than 80% disability, the canteen so that this man can live. Thucydides said: "War is a violent teacher." At least this teacher should not be violent to the people who fought and have this war syndrome, with the problems of mental and physical health that they face on the night of life. For Constantine Papatheodorou, the adventure continues. They must clearly respect the decisions of Themida, the decisions of justice. His suffering, however, is unbelievable and the new statements made by the hospital commander yesterday to the local media about a new competition, you realize, are bringing him to a new adventure. What's the result? The candle has been closed for months. People get sick. They will once again resort to justice and the situation will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Bouba, let me begin by saying that under no circumstances would I like to relate this matter to the struggles that Mr Papatheodorou has given for his country and every fighter in this country. But there are laws, there are courts, there are judicial decisions, which we must respect. And, as I said in my protology, that's what we're gonna do. We'll wait for the decisions. The administration of the hospital will fully comply with any judicial decision and will do according to the letter of the law. I repeat that we recognise everyone's struggles, but under no circumstances can we go beyond the rulings of the courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Kontozamanis will reply to both the next two topical questions from Mr. I.A. of Athens, Mr.A.25 Mr. Angelikos Adamopoulou. So we move on to the sixth under number 41/9-10-2020 in the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary I, Mr.Aggeliki Adamopoulos, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "State Discrimination against Mr. Siachin Serif. Lacks and problems in health." Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I would like to return as a topical question I addressed to you on 31 August 2020. Unfortunately, we have not received any response since then. It's about a disabled person, Mr. Siachin Serif. It is an issue that has been denounced many times by the Disabled Persons' Counselor, Andreas Bardakis, both with his complaints to the Media Counselor, as well as with publications and notifications on the subject, which he has made to ministers and competent bodies. It is therefore a person who has been suffering from malignant obesity, weighs about three hundred and sixty pounds, has been bedd for years, cannot under any circumstances serve himself, suffers from heart failure and from hepatitis, is under permanent treatment and continuous mechanical support with oxygen concentrate, is treated with bronchodilators and diuretics and, of course, the disability rate diagnosed amounts to 85% to 90%. It has therefore been judged since 2012 as a life-threatening disabled. The issue is - and that is why we have asked you the question - that this man from January 2017 has not even accepted the elementary visit of doctors, in order to review his health, to make the relevant opinion. On the contrary, in January 2017 he was visited by a medical step. But, as he denounces, he didn't even examine him, nor did he even carry out elementary tests and medical advice. All he did was give him antidepressants. Also important is that although he deserves both family doctors and home care and home care, "Help at home" that is, he has unfortunately only received such a visit once and does not receive the relevant support from the programme at all. It also faces a survival problem, as the poor wheelchair pension that receives 700 euros is not sufficient to cover its costs, as 250 euros of them have to do with consumables, which it covers. In other words, the percentage justified by EOPY has been reduced. His family is being charged and the only care he has received, the only donation, is from the Committee of the Muslim Territory of Komotini that has given him the bed where he is located. Because there have also been complaints of discrimination against him because of origin and allegedly mental disorder, what we want to ask you is what you intend to do about his case, in the case of a person who has accepted the analgesia and indifference from the state, and of course what you intend to do about a more general issue that is the upgrading of local health establishments to promote the establishment of a family doctor, to strengthen the "Help at Home" body and to extend the list of freely supplied materials and, of course, to establish the possibility at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u94	Minister, please have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Adamopoulou, allow me to say first of all that the current government is standing with the critical responsibility of citizens' health problems, ensuring that all citizens have access to health services. We have made it clear that we are not going to leave any of our fellow citizens helpless and we are in practice proving this and I find your claim unreasonable when you talk about state indifference. There is an opportunity, of course, within the framework of parliamentary control to highlight the problems that exist and in no way seek to create false impressions. Social sensitivity has no green, blue or red colour, no origin, nor, of course, can be measured by defining the least and the most socially sensitive. Seahin Sheriff's case is really tragic. I'll tell you some things. Of course, I'm going to keep the medical secret, because you referred to the medication he's taking. According to data from the 4th Health Region of Macedonia and Thrace, on January 20, 2020, and at the request of the Municipality of Komotini and through the program "Help to Home" the patient was visited by a general doctor, nurse and social worker of the 1st TOMY Komotini, where a series of examinations was considered necessary. To this end, the management of the General Hospital of Komotini appointed doctors for the home medical visit and an assessment of the condition of the patient mentioned due to serious health problems that apparently made it impossible to move. Also, in collaboration with the Social Policy Directorate of the Social Protection Programme Application Department “Help at Home” of the Municipality of Komotini was established by a medical step consisting of a surgeon, psychiatrist and pneumonologist for the patient's assessment, as well as for the completion of the file in order to submit the request to the CEPOL in order to obtain an allowance from the institution's insurer. All of this is self-evident actions, procedures and obligations of the relevant health bodies of the Ministry of Health and other state bodies against all our fellow citizens facing similar problems. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] These and other measures must be improved. We are working in this direction and, of course, we are in no way indifferent. With regard to the second part of your question, where you are essentially referring to the functioning of the primary care system, you raise issues that really have substance and value of discussion, such as the institution of the family doctor, the “Help at Home” program and home hospitality. All of this is part of the upgrading of primary health care services and the reform it needs, it is in the upcoming changes of the Ministry of Health and will soon come to a debate in the House. These are changes aimed at creating an integrated primary health care system, which meets here the so-called 'new public health' definition, where prevention together with primary health care is the new definition given by the World Health Organisation, is the new services offered by modern states, are the new services that we are planning in terms of reforming the primary health care system. This system emphasises prevention and aims at addressing health problems with a basic principle to address the social, biological, physical and medical needs of the individual and thus to monitor the environment conditions of the individual as well as one of the main tasks of the system. These integrated services will be provided through a network at the core of which health centers are located, which will be functionally integrated into all primary health care structures, while in this network they will be redefined and reassigned as a family doctor. We create, within this network, doctors of various specialties, weight and deed, the functional connection to social care services, such as the "Help at Home" service, while redefining and strengthening the home care that we did during the Krone period. We also act as a necessary and necessary tool for the individual electronic health file, the operation of which will be the necessary condition, so that this system can function fully. Our aim is to provide universal and without hindrances for all of our fellow citizens, with priority, of course, to the weakest, as is the case with the Seahin Serif. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u96	Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u97	Minister, I would first like to make a clarification. When I referred to the analgesias from the state, I did not give any political hue to this statement. It is a fact - and I will put it out in the Minutes - that the complaints made about this patient's case have also been made about the previous government. These are the complaints made by the Disabled Persons' Counselor, Mr Bardakis. The dates mentioned here are very characteristic. In any case, many actors have been informed of this, both at present and at the moment of the previous government. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Angeliki Adamopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am very pleased that you told me there was some medical step that visited the patient in September 2020. That was after the question I submitted to you. However, I did not have any information on this question. Therefore, due to a lack of evidence, I thought there was no response to this question. We also look forward with great interest to the changes and legislation which, as you have said, you intend to bring in relation to primary health structures. Of course, I should inform you that on 1 October 2020 the Pan-Hellenic Coordinator of Associations and Associations "Help at Home" notified a press release which strongly protests about the indifference and unacceptable attitude of the Ministry of the Interior - I tell you what the press release says - about the renewal of workers' contracts in the "Help at Home". They had been assured since July that there is concern about the issue, that there will be no problem, but since October 1, three thousand workers in the "Home Help" programme are presenting to the institutions, without any contract of employment, delays in their payroll, persecution and no legal cover. So what they are asking for is the immediate vote on the forthcoming provision. We therefore expect with great interest that any changes are to bring about, in relation to these very important health structures, which we have so far seen weakening, suppressing and covering fixed and lasting needs even of hospitals. The latter has to do with the next question we are going to discuss. So there should be reinforcement, strengthening of the institution. In any case, the responsible bodies in the case of this man must not be a visit which took place in September and will not be made from now on. We should not be concerned about the issue and simply say it for communication reasons. There should be continuous monitoring of this patient. His problems are major and wondered how this man still lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u98	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Adamopoulou, once again I take the opportunity to say that, due to the enormous genuine amount of questions to the Ministry of Health, we are unfortunately not responding to the time-limits for answering these questions, and that is why many questions are being turned into timely questions. This has nothing to do with us not answer a question. We answer all the questions. In the timely questions, our presence is continuous and uninterrupted in the context of parliamentary scrutiny. Let me once again say that we do not want to leave any of our fellow citizens helpless. We are taking decisions on the whole range of health policy decisions, from funding the health system to dealing with each individual patient. I will agree with you that there has been a visit to the patient this previous September. That must not mean it will stop. There should be continuous monitoring of the patient and any patient in need of health services. Finally, I would like to refer to the 'House Help' programme. I cannot, because I am not competent, give you an answer to what you say, because this programme is the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior. As far as I know, however, efforts are being made and care is taken for this programme to strengthen and continue to provide necessary health services, helping people in need of the services provided through this programme. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, too, Minister. We continue with the discussion of the fourth question under number 42-9-10-2020 of the second-cycle question of the Athens Parliamentary I, Mr.Aggeliki Adamopoulou, to the Minister of Health, on "Serious problems of subsistence and personnel management of ambulances PEDY and EKAB with tragic consequences for patients". As I said, the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis, will be responding again. Here, Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister, I had asked you a question that I, on occasion of a tragic recent incident on 4-7-2020, when an eighty-three-year-old from the Acharnes expired after it was released to the "Evangelism" with a private ambulance. This is because he waited for five whole hours and after repeated harassment the EMCDDA ambulance, which never arrived. This incident is characteristic because it illustrates in an emphatic way the chronic and serious problems encountered in subscribing the relevant structures. The already burdensome situation in the patient crew sector of the primary national health network, which is related to the intervening of patients, has deteriorated further since the secondment of this sector by the health centres where they are legally employed and on the basis of their contracts with hospitals in order to meet the constant needs of hospitals. This is also due to the shortcomings and subsidization observed in particular in the drivers' sector. These crews cover around 70% of the country's territory, under particularly unfavourable conditions, they are engaged in emergencies and chronic incidents, without having a second health crew, as the law defines, and thus the health of the patients who take over this staff are seriously at risk. Crew members have a special professional licence and, like EKA rescuers, are employed in the pre-private stage, they provide pre-privileged care, and whereas the conditions under which they are employed are equal to those of the EKA's crew, unfortunately there is an unequal treatment against them both wage and insurance cover, with regard to the enclosure permits they are entitled to, with regard to the costume allowance they are required to cover with their own personal expenses, unlike the EKA rescuers who receive an allowance of around EUR 400. So we see a flagrant violation of the principle of equal pay and equal pay for work of equal value. Moreover, the movement, the secondment of these crews to meet driver needs has also created administrative turmoil, which I will explain in my dentistry. This is because, instead of being subjected to a single body and receiving orders from one body, there is a multifactorial mandate, from doctors from the health centers, from managers from the hospitals, which leads to a complete confusion as to how to prioritise and how to manage the emergency. The government had announced the recruitment of seven hundred and fifty people as an adjunct to the EMCDDA, in order to cope with the years of subscribing. Unfortunately, only three hundred and fifty people were hired, only eighty of whom are rescuers. In fact, the recruits remain unpaid for four months, with what this may mean for their survival. We see, then, that the EMCDDA, which is a critical arm of the National Health System, remains weakened, remains endowed at a pandemic time. So the questions are two and I shall end, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. First, has the SAD been ordered for the eighth-year-old and disciplinary action has been taken against those responsible? Secondly and most importantly, how do you plan to restore this unequal and unjust situation to the crew of the weak primary national health network and, of course, how do you intend to strengthen the structures of the EAW in the midst of pandemic and, finally, how many of those you have announced will you carry out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u102	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Adamopoulos, as far as the first part of your question is concerned, let me say that it is a sad fact that the loss of the life of any of our fellow people is a sad fact. Whenever and wherever it turns out that there are responsibilities, they must be attributed and attributed without a second debate. In order to investigate the incident referred to in your question relating to a delay in a cross-patient, the President of the EAW was ordered to carry out a sworn administrative review with the end date of submission on 5 September 2020. On the basis of the complexity of the case, the large volume of documents and audio-visual evidence to be studied and cross-checked, the large number of officials to be asked to submit, as well as the increased workload and obligations to be managed, requested an extension for the submission of the findings of the ESA for two months, which it has received. We are therefore awaiting the conclusion of the juror administrative review when it is completed in the next few weeks. Mrs Adamopoulou, you are giving me the opportunity to emphasise once again the important role played by the National Direct Aid Centre in the National Health System. We have said so on several occasions, both in the election and during the head of the Ministry of Health. The National Emergency Aid Centre for us, in the context of a wider planning, together with the emergency departments, which should be autonomous in the hospitals in the country, should set up the emergency pre-medical care arm, so that we have an integrated system of emergency pre-medical care, from the call for assistance to the crossing of one of our fellow citizens to the emergency departments of hospitals, which I repeat must be autonomous, so that this emergency pre-novation care service can be provided fully, as is done in all modern states. The strengthening of the National Direct Aid Centre, let me assure you that it is in our immediate plans and concerns not only the recruitment of permanent and subsidiary personnel, but also the strengthening of the equipment of the EKA, its administrative upgrading, such as the preparation of an organisational plan and, of course, the upgrading of the EKA's rolling stock and equipment. With great pleasure we have ratified the great donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for the acquisition of two helicopters and two aircraft, which in the coming months will be available to the EKA in order to offer better health services to all our fellow citizens and, of course, there is design to complete and launch competitions for the acquisition of new ambulances. There is planning in terms of education and training for staff. I will agree with you on what you have said, because there is particular interest here that several drivers belong to health centres, so they fall within the health regions, and there is a different status with regard to the crews of the ambulances, the crews of the National Direct Aid Centre. Therefore, there is a design to have the crews of the ambulances belonging to the health regions. There is a design, so that they have the same conditions, the same working conditions, the same pay and whatever is provided for by the legislation, as by their colleagues at the National Direct Aid Centre. Finally, as far as delays are concerned, let me say that there have been delays. In no case has these delays been four months, but it is not important to play with the months. It is important that the result remains the same and that this result is that problems have been solved and subsidiary staff are currently being paid normally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u104	Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, first of all we are very pleased that the SAD has already been ordered. I would also like to take the findings of this ETS personally, because every time we ask questions about ETS and finally the findings of all these examinations we do not receive them and do not know about these checks. You said that many employees would testify, and that causes malfunctions. From there understand how it works how it is coordinated to work for the ESAB and workers of health centres, namely how many officials and how many actors are involved and what malfunction it is currently causing in the ESA. Imagine what malfunctions all of these people are going to coordinate in order to get a patient through. I shall submit in the Minutes a memorandum tabled by the Health Centers' Pensions Association, which are saying exactly that they work in adverse conditions and under the same conditions as the EKA's drivers, but unfortunately they are unequally treated. Their demands are that they should also be included in the EAW, so that there is a unification of the provision of pre-medical care services and that there should be a unification of the body in relation to the body that coordinates the incidents. This, of course, will not only result in harmonisation and equal treatment of these people at work, but what I would like to point out to you - and I would ask you to pay attention to their memorandum - is that these people put down with figures just how much unification is still a burden on the state budget. This is because they remain in health centers at the moment, unused about a hundred and fifty vehicles, which are just immobilized due to a lack of staff. Some are inappropriate. However, maintenance costs and fuel costs of these vehicles are great. If, therefore, this unification that these people are asking for, this unification will automatically carry the fleet of vehicles from the health centres in the EAW, and so the funds will be streamlined. So what they are asking is not only to strengthen the EAW, which in any case needs strengthening and strengthening, but also to integrate these people, because until your announcements and your commitments are implemented, these people will continue to work and meet the constant and constant needs of the National Direct Aid Centre. So they are asking, until then, for this unification to take place, so that they can join the same regime as EKAV rescuers, but on the other hand there can also be unification in connection with the coordination of the incident, because this will lead to a safer and better response to the incident, so we understand that it is also a matter of ensuring human health for which these people, whom they carry to the hospital. So these are their demands. I'll testify to the Minutes. I will also testify in the Minutes and an extrajudicial filed by the Greek Nurses Association, which denounces that exactly how hospital subscribing has led to even being employed by nurses at the pre-medical stage, which is not permitted under law and is illegal. This puts people's health at risk, and that is precisely because of the deficiencies and malfunctions that are taking place. From there on, it is the relevant legislative regime, the legislative framework which provides that these people are not paid in the same way. We would therefore really like to see what you have committed today to implement. Of course, the announcements are good, but what I have just seen in a relevant post today is that in relation to the preliminary draft budget there is a reduction in expenditure in the National Health System by EUR 31 million. Four thousand hires will be cancelled. You told us a moment ago that you were going to recruit. How will this be done when the budget provides for these reductions? I'll submit the relevant report to the Minutes. So we call on you before all these announcements are implemented, at least, to take care of this staff who, under particularly unfavourable and unfavourable conditions, are called upon to face years of emergency, so that when an unfortunate incident arises, like the eighth-year-old, people who should not be responsible, like even doctors themselves, are responsible. It is the responsibility of the doctors, but it is the responsibility of the governors. So there must be a separation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Adamopoulou, with regard to a sworn administrative examination, I imagine that the conclusion in the context of parliamentary scrutiny will be available to you. I think I was clear about what we intend to do with the National Emergency Aid Centre, how we plan and how we see it modernise, so that it can respond to its role in the National Health System. I also told you that the request for ambulance crews belonging to the health regions is well known and we are aware of the debate that is taking place and working in this direction in order to resolve cross-border issues throughout the country. In any case, because everyone from the result is judged, I believe that in a very short time we will have concrete results, with regard to both the system of emergency pre-medical care that we are planning and implementing, and the working conditions of the ambulance crews. Let me make a comment on the health and recruitment budget. No intake is complete. The planning, planning is only about 2021 and over the next three years - because the design involves a depth of at least three years - the National Health System should be strengthened with the staff needed to meet needs and gaps. Of course, whatever resources are needed in the National Health System, in order to meet the needs, especially at that time when the coronary pandemic is under way, will be given to the National Health System. Let me just remind you that, beyond the 2020 budget, at least EUR 300 million has been allocated to date to meet the needs of the National Health System in order to deal with this pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, too, Minister. We continue with the fifth under number 58-12-10-2020, a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Health, on "Direct awards of the COVID -19 diagnostic tests from the hospitals in Thessaloniki to private laboratories". The State Secretary for Health, Mr. Kontozamanis, will answer. Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you wondered a little earlier in public because there is a huge amount of parliamentary control to the Ministry of Health. Because the Ministry of Health is the problem and the many small or bigger lies of Mr. Mitsotakis in relation to health. I specifically recognise tolerance to you because you are fully responsible for the health ministry's responsibilities following Mr Kikilia's political quarantine, who only makes public relations with the coronary, it makes sense that this volume will increase. And it will grow further, because you have to answer us, Mr. Kontozamanis, to something that just emerged: What Mitsotakis is it? The Mitsotakis of ID said that four thousand doctors would be hired or Mitsotakis the today who said they'd be hired, wherever they need, doctors? In the budget set up by less than 30 million for health, there is no provision for an intake of the four thousand doctors. A fourteen-year-old child from what the police arrests and charges them for forming a criminal organization if you added the 20 million Petsa list, the millions of Mr. Bakoyannis's "big walk" and the cost of the eight hundred buses, which instead of being maintained, purchased new old technology, went out to 31 million. Of course, the big problem, as I said, is the many lies you're lying to. Today, for example, I would be very pleased to share your joy at the truly important change that has taken place, the reinforcement of the Salvation Hospital with the fifty beds - not the intensive beds, as Mr Mitsotakis said - with the sponsorship of the Parliament. But half the truth is a great lie, Minister. Of the fifty beds staffed are only twelve. And the recruitments that are to be made haven't yet been announced. And the staffing for the twelve beds of the "Salvation" has been done by internal movement. This opens wounds somewhere else. The country's nursing and medical staff are out of their minds. Today, of course, in this Chamber, we have heard a great deal. As if we were in dreaming, we heard Mrs. Kerameau say there's no problem with the kids at school. There's a school in Thessaloniki every hour. We heard Mr. Brutsi say there are no redundancies. We have heard you say that we have everything under control. Minister, never in critical times in this country's time has no one dared to work on such a juncture. You work for her, too. I do not know whether you are choosing yourself personally or are forced by the Mitsotakis Policy to close your eyes in front of what is happening, but it is an important problem that is also raised by the timely question. It was also asked by the question that we submitted fifty Members to Mr Kikilia on 18 August, but he never answered. You have led to a suffocation of health and the economy, but your only concept is "work, jobs, jobs". Direct assignments, even to those who once stuck a DPRK poster. I come to the question very soon to tell you that we are talking about the largest hospital in Thessaloniki. 340,000 euros were given to private workshops from February to August. Less than five months. The cost of the test paid to private laboratories is EUR 65. The real cost is 20 euros. And instead of thinking, Minister, what any household businessman would do, that a molecular analyst should be provided, as the workers who have asked you to do since March have pointed out. What are you doing? Provide space to a private person in the hospital, install a molecular analyst and continue to be rewarded with the cost of the private laboratory. Answer a simple question. If the state, what you're bent on, was a family business, is that what you would do? Your lies have become soar, bronze for Greek society and citizens. I am referring to the hospital, which is a pandemic reference hospital, Mr Kontozamani. It has two CIVID -19 clinics and one ICU, the largest one in northern Greece. During the pandemic, he made up of forty to a hundred beds in the outbreak of the disease in the pandemic department. A hundred and fifty - seven positive patients and five hundred twenty cases have been hospitalized. I'm stopping here because since February, the people you've been cheering for in the balconies, and then you're sending the MATs to answer them, they've been overrun by themselves. It's been called since February: equipment, molecular analyst. I close, however, by saying that it was the first feeling, the first step that your issue is not public health. Your question - and I will say it in my denture - is how you will deliver health only to private hands.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u110	Please, in your dentistry, be a little shorter, because you have spoken three times a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u111	Like everyone else before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u112	Okay, we're at the end, and there's a tolerance. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, Mr Giannoulis first gave us a political analysis of this matter. Luckily he told us about the question at the end of the day. Mr Giannoulis, I am really sorry because first of all you are attacking the Minister for Health and you are talking about a political quarantine when you are not here talking about working on the government's success in managing the pandemic. It's annoying to you the result of the management to date, maybe you'd like another result. Fortunately for Greece, for the Greeks, thankfully for the citizens of this country at the wheel of governance is Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who is one and only.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u114	Minister, for God's sake, one and only!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u115	He is the one who spoke of the need for the four thousand nurses who worked during the coronary period to remain in the system. He is the one who today inaugurated the "Salvation" intensive treatment unit once again stressed that everything needed for staff will be covered by the health system. You spoke of the budget. Was there in the country's budget the sum for the recruitment of six thousand eight hundred subsidiary doctors? No, there was no, but we prevented them, and now they're in the health system and they're working properly and they're offering services. So don't talk to us about the budget and what we've done and what we're going to do. As far as your question is concerned, the conduct of diagnostic checks on Coronovirus was - and is an important operational axis of our strategy and from the day the first case was detected in our country so far, the Greek Government and the Ministry of Health reacted quickly and effectively with regard to laboratory controls. Eight hundred fifty checks were carried out daily at the beginning of the pandemic, more than fifteen thousand checks daily today. Within a very short period of time we have expanded the laboratory population, fifteen times the number of tests, we have multiplied the points of the sample audits, we have reduced by five times the cost of testing the sample, and we have ensured adequate and adequate reagents and analysts available. I think you're ignoring what's going on in the health field, and you're acting like you haven't been ruling, because your party ruled. What machine has been placed in a public hospital and privately exploited?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u116	Papanikolaou Hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u117	You mistreated the process, the so-called loan, where a machine and hospitals are provided after a competitive procedure. And in Thessaloniki we have increased the production capacity of diagnostic testing for the coronary with more machines by strengthening both the unit of the National Haemodiasm Center, which operates at the hospital "SHEPA" with another machine and new modern technology, the hospital "SHEEPA", so that the co-chair and northern Greece have more diagnostic tests available. These actions demonstrate the absolute management capacity of the Government and by extension of the Ministry of Health. We continue to manage the situation responsibly, seriously and of course by making the best use of the Greek people's money. In February 2020, we had a molecular analyst at the "AHEPA" Hospital for the whole of Thessaloniki with a control of less than 10 samples per hour and as I told you today, the situation is completely different. We have three molecular analysts, with five hundred samples a day, two hundred samples a day, and the method of tanking, which increases diagnostic capacity, can also be done. The third analyst, starting in the next few days, will check saliva samples and can carry out up to five thousand checks a day. It is a machine, which is a donation of "ELLENIC S.A.". It's one of the first machines all over the planet that's settled in our country. Our country has this privilege in "AHEPA" and Athens. In addition to the “ACHEPA”, which at the beginning of the pandemic, as I told you, was the only hospital of the ESS in Thessaloniki in which molecular checks were carried out, the “Huppo-state” from April 2020 carried out checks of up to ninety-four samples an hour, the “Papageorgiou” Hospital seventy-day, the “C. Seventy-seven to eighty-day and this week the "C. Genuines’ will add an additional 50 checks per day. As you can see, we didn't sit with our hands crossed. We have worked and managed to increase the capacity of public hospitals. And when this was not enough, we addressed the private sector - because we do not forget that the National Health System consists of the state sector and the private sector - in order to increase the possibility of free diagnostic checks for all citizens. For any citizen of our country who has to carry out a test, he fulfils the criteria set out by the Committee of Experts, this test is carried out in the public structures of the country, without any additional costs to the citizen. Therefore, at the expense of the hospitals themselves, samples are sent to and sent to private laboratories or sent to university laboratories. Is the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki private? It is paid, yes, by the state, to carry out checks. Don't use it? We use it and we'll use it. According to health data, by 7 October 2020 the number of tests carried out by private laboratories since the beginning of the pandemic was four thousand and thirty-five, and the corresponding cost of the test amounts to EUR 271,000. Accordingly, according to data from the 4th Health Region, the number of tests is seven thousand two hundred sixty-three and the amount of EUR 343,995. We are talking in total about 11 thousand seventy thousand ninety-eight samples, which were carried out in the private sector and which correspond to a cost of EUR 615 000. It is worth seeing, Mr President, how much the cost of carrying out these examinations at the beginning of the pandemic and how much it is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, too. But you have both spoken three times a year and I would ask you to be brief. Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u119	What has happened with previous speakers, Mr President, I shall follow it closely. Minister, this really is the only thing that happens on this corner in Greece. Let me tell you about your department's needs, because obviously the head of health care sent you some information. But obviously, they have sent them to you or to expose you or think that in this country the 'dreamland' and the 'cheek tree' covers everything. You have not been informed that the molecular analyst of "AHEPA" traveled to Xanthi during the peak of the first pandemic wave and returned after protests.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u120	Grounds for listing: Head of Mission of the so-called
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u121	Grounds for listing: Head of Mission of the so-called But you describe all the rest of the time, except for what I described to you about "Papanikolaou". And you describe the law of inertia of your Government for six months and present me with Mr. Mitsotakis as the one and only Messiah? That's what you want to tell the people in Cossan, where is it in Lockdown? Do you want to tell my fellow citizens in Thessaloniki who are struggling for the results of your video conferences? You want to tell Castoria, Kozani? In Kozani, Mr. Chardalias did something that he does not dare do in Athens. He presented the list of bars responsible for the outbreak of the pandemic. And you don't have a word to say about transportation, as a Minister of Health. Deputy? Deputy. I believe that you are the Minister of Health, and I insist on the 'political quarantine' for Mr Kikilia. Why don't you talk about transport, co-mortem, crowding, all that's happening at the events, about what's going on in schools, Minister? And do you have the political tactic to move our finger and imply that we are happy with your own inefficiency? You're making a mistake! We are deeply sorry, and that is why we are proposing and informing you. You have not answered what was the reason for that five-month period to resort to the needs of private laboratories. We didn't get a reply. We got sums, we got generalities and all that. Do you know why I'm saying half the truths are lies? Because the same is happening, Minister, and with the staff of hospitals. I referred to the 'Papanikolaou'. I described the load of the lab and the clinical stuff they have. There are currently twice as many workloads. In your hands should have arrived the letter of desperation and anxiety sent by the director of the Pathological Clinic "Papanikolaou" and described the situation as it is and not as you and Mr Mitsotakis imagined. As for medical staff for pathological, pulmonary and other clinics supporting both the pandemic and other health incidents, but also two new CIVID clinics with fifty-six beds, there had to be twenty organic positions and there are thirteen. Is this enough for you? Is it the effectiveness of a single Mr. Mitsotakis? From the twenty organic positions, instead of being added, to be on thirteen, now October? Also, take note of you - other speakers have said so during this debate - medical staff are old and tired. The medical staff, despite the applause you had only to give them, and nothing else, in relation to heavy and unhealthy, with financial support, with recruitment, are tired. In the Pathological Clinic of "Papanikolaou" there are four curators, Mr President, with serious illnesses. And what have you done, the government of excellence, the skilled and the only one around the planet? In May, therefore, the management of the Papanikolaou Hospital sent a document to the 3rd Ministry of Health, informing about ten departures of permanent medical personnel due to retirement and within 2020, one of which pathologists. On 27 August they received an answer that two positions were proclaimed from the twelve which were requested, and indeed anesthesiologist and radiologist. Two pathologists. One is leaving and recruited, instead of the 12 people requested by the hospital, two other specialties. You said about the auxiliary doctors and I'll be done, Mr. President. Do you know that at the Papanikolaou Hospital two auxiliary doctors resigned why they could not afford the weight of the load assigned to their backs, without any cover and without any intake? Do you know that? Do your colleagues say so to the documents sent to you to come to parliamentary control?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u122	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u123	I shall conclude, Mr President. In fact, in its decision, the commander of the 3rd Ministry of Foreign Affairs seconded a curator of the clinic to a hospital in the province. A hearing was requested from the administration and there was a denial, Mr. Kontozamani, of the secondment of a curator in the province. This particular curator - listen to the craving you describe as the ideal situation - was seconded two months ago to the "Papanikolaou" Hospital, had completed five years - as is called - on the 1st line, i.e. on a barren line.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Comrade, please get it over with. And you're out of the question. Now you're talking about the gaps...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u125	I have not been overtaken, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u126	Okay, we're at the end. You are now speaking thirteen minutes, and your time is five minutes. But that's not the way it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u127	Do you know what the most serious thing is? That this doctor I've described to you, Mr. Kontozamanis, had a year left, waiting for his place of replacement to be announced in Ptolemais. He inspired space and finally became a distraction back, staying the "Papanikolaou" in the air.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u129	These are your achievements and I'm sorry it's happening. I wish you had any results. The position of incompetence and ineffectiveness this time does not correspond to votes, Mr Kontozamanis. It corresponds to lives.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u130	The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, I will be brief. Mr Giannoulis, you spoke as if your party had not been ruling this country. You forget you were government a few months ago. These problems were not created in the fifteen months of governance by the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u132	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u133	We got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Colleague, you weren't interrupted by the Minister. Don't interrupt. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u135	Fortunately, you have now recorded a historic route both in the health system and in the country's governance and we all know what we have received and in particular in the health system and what we are trying to do. You're referring to cases. You are talking about Papanikolaou Hospital. We forget about what is going on in the rest of Thessaloniki and how the citizens are served there and you didn't tell us the number of auxiliary staff, hired at the "Papanikolaou" Hospital. Can I tell you? They are seventy - three nurses, twenty - two paramedical staff and ten doctors. In every way, therefore, we are strengthening both the Papanikolaou Hospital and the other structures of the health system. And be sure of something, because the data is there. We received questionnaires in July last year from the hospital administrations - which your government had appointed - to capture the current situation at the time. The best way has been to dismantle the health system that we have received. Everyone is judged by the result. I say it and I'll say it. And you can be certain that the health system improves, offers better services to all citizens. And through the management - which I'm really sorry, you're rather sad that we've done so well - and the judgment of this pandemic...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u136	Don't say that again. Mr. President, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u137	the health system is modernised and upgraded. Success bothers you. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u138	This is political immorality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Giannoulis, instead of five minutes you have spoken thirteen minutes and interrupted now. Please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u140	Be careful, Minister, because you are addressing citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u141	Nobody listens to you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u142	...such a shameful placement...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u143	But it's not right what you're doing. You spoke thirteen minutes off the subject. I have not interrupted you because health is indeed serious. We're in the end, but don't overdo it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u144	No, Mr. President, do we want people to die? For Christ's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u145	Don't interrupt. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u146	What you said about the Minister of Health is correct and moral?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u147	It's true. Talk to the doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u148	It's true! Yeah, all right! Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u149	Here is the sixth question, under number 59/12-10-2020, of the second-round question of the Parliamentary Kilkis of the Radical Left, Mr. Irene - Helen Agathopoulos, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Extension of work contracts for hospital cleaning workers". Mrs Agathopoulos has the floor for her prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you have said a lot about the achievements of the SYRIZA government in the field of health. I would urge you to speak with the world, who really took advantage of the reforms of the SYRIZA government in the field of health, where there were no care for the uninsured and we were the ones who covered the entire population so that they could have access to public hospitals, one of the most emblematic, if you like, reforms made by SYRIZA in the field of health. And you don't have to answer that, people know. The world has rendered Caesar Caesar Caesari's. I will talk to you about another flagship issue today, another flagship reform of SYRIZA in the field of health, the replacement of workshops, contractors in the feeding, cleaning and storage services with individual contracts directly with hospitals. It is a matter that not only concerns the twelve cleaners of the Kilkis Hospital, which we are going to discuss today, but it is a matter of concern to all these workers who have seen with this political decision by SYRIZA that their salaries should be increased, that they have employment rights, that they have leave, that they have working hours, that they have a wage in the final, because 300 euros are not a wage for eight hours, that is the wages paid by contractors to workers in the former government of New Democracy, but also before. It was therefore a political decision of the government of SYRIZA, a battle with a purely ideological mark in favour of workers, for which the former ministers, Mr. Xanthos and Mr. Paulakis, as well as the managers of hospitals, who proceeded with such individual contracts by expelling the workshops, are still running in the courts. But it is a reform that we are proud of, and we do not regret a single minute for it. Today we are in another situation. We have a leadership of the Ministry of Health that has not yet taken a clear position, and I say it very clearly because you cannot be with the contractor and the worker, as your own moves prove, because you have brought the amendment to extend individual contracts, but on the other hand you also give the administrations the opportunity to conclude workshop contracts. So we have this ambiguous attitude from the Ministry's leadership. We have hospital managers, including the commander of the Kilkis Hospital who are not interested in the working conditions of these people - and on the other hand, we have workers, but also the unions of hospital workers and the WTO itself, to take a clear stand in favour of the reform of SYRIZA, which also saved money from the regular budget and decent conditions and employment rights, ensured workers and workers. I will present to you, in practical terms, the complaint of the Workers' Association of Kilkis Hospital, where it talks about the conditions in the hospital, but in everything it says that it was unfortunate that the management decision was not to prolong the 12 workers' contracts in cleaning up until 31 December 2021, who have met this difficult task in the pandemic, keeping the hospital clean and secure for the staff and patients. I will also present to you a press release - a complaint from the Workers' Association of Psychiatric Hospital of Athens "Dafni" for the working middle-ages by the contracting cleaning company. I will also present to you a report on what was happening at the Hospital of Kavala from 2011 to 2015, where there was a cleaning workshop and the workers remain unpaid until today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u151	Come short, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u152	So, Minister, the questions you are asked are as follows: if you have a clear position and if you will follow this SYRIZA policy decision to renew contracts in all hospitals, where there were individual contracts. And if there have been mistakes and if this staff are not enough, in the first application of the procedure, are you prepared now that there is no narrow financial framework to correct these mistakes, to get additional staff, to continue the individual cleaning contracts in hospitals and to get the workers to gain, but also the public health system? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u153	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Agathopoulos, I'll be sorry. You referred to covering the uninsured. I would remind you once again that the coverage of our uninsured fellow citizens was made by two ministerial decisions in 2014, on government Antonis Samaras. You are telling us about the reform in relation to cleaning services in hospitals. Let me remind you that it was your government that tried to impose situations. Three times it took you to change the law in order to build something so that you could pass your policy. We have demonstrated and demonstrated on a daily basis that human resources are at the forefront of our priorities, which means that we are in the best interests of ensuring and continuing employment in hospitals, health centres and other structures of the ERC. We have done so - and you have said so too - with a recent law, which enables workers' contracts to be extended to feeding, keeping and cleaning up until December 2021. In any case, however, I would remind you that the institution concerned by this staff also has the final responsibility for the choice. And I remind you - you will know that much better than I do - that when it was decided to conclude contracts with staff at the Kilkis Hospital, the agency's suggestions talked about the need to recruit more staff. And unfortunately, contracts were concluded with staff, which did not meet the actual needs of the hospital. This has been done in order to impose your policy. There are, therefore, provisions, there is the self-employed of hospitals and above all, there is the very specific role that the Ministry of Health has to play. In other words, policy making, monitoring and implementation of this policy by supervised bodies. In the case of the General Hospital of Kilkis, I repeat that there is the self-employed. The administration must ensure, within the framework of the legislation, that the hospital is run. And we make sure there are choices. That is why we voted to extend - I repeat - the conventions until 31 December 2021, thereby ensuring workers who, of course, know that their contracts will end sometime. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] In any case, we are not going to interfere with the administrations of hospitals, by obliging them to act and decisions, as you did when you were government, effectively abolishing any concept of good administration and self-government. We're watching the developments. We make sure the laws are respected. We are going to take corrective action, as we have done for the extension of these conventions. We are planning the next day, in which human capital needs to be adequacy and the overall restructuring of the services provided. Mrs Agathopoulos, a few days ago, as you probably know, there was a debate on the question of the treatment of insurance measures for workers against the General Hospital of Kilkis. I'm not here to prejudge a court decision, much more than to act as a lawyer for anyone. But the situation is clear from our side. We are giving the possibility of extending all contracts relating to cleaning, feeding and storage services until 31 December 2021. The agencies have administrations. Administrations must take decisions. These decisions must, and must, in any way ensure the public interest. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u155	Mrs Agathopoulos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'll take it backwards and say that the agencies have administrations. These administrations entered with purely party criteria. They belong to the New Democracy. The New Democracy is now a government. This government has in your Ministry of Health and Mr. Kikillia to make decisions. So the responsibility for whether these contracts will continue or cease is pure of the New Democracy, of your Government, of your own and of the one and only Mr Mitsotakis, as you called him just before. So political responsibility is of the New Democracy that these people will lose their jobs on 31 October 2020 if you do not make the political decision to continue these contracts at all costs. You know very well - and I will present to you in the Minutes - two such economic studies of committees, which are recommended to the boards of directors, to choose between individual contracts or contractors. Depending on what you're asking, that's what you get. So I can tell you again that the decision is clearly yours. It is a political decision which you will all be charged with. Because the previous leadership of the Ministry of Health also took the political decision to ensure decent wages and decent working conditions for women who work in cleanliness, but also for those who work for feeding and keeping. So the one and only question I ask you about your dentistry is whether you prefer these workers to work with decent wages under decent working conditions or on a contractor's heel, without any - if you would like - at any rate for the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Agathopoulou. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u158	Mrs Agathopoulos, thank you very much for your comment. You said: 'According to what you ask, you will get'. And you, in the period of your government, have caused a decision. You asked for less staff than the hospital needed for cleaning in order to get to fixed-term contracts. And you know that very well, Mrs Agathopoulos, because your current partner was on the hospital board at that time. We were - and we're - clear as far as we're concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u159	You should see what you say in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u160	We have given the possibility of extending all contracts relating to cleaning, feeding and storage services until 31 December 2021. Entities have administrations and administrations to take decisions that will in any way ensure the public interest. We are not working under any circumstances with the duties of your own period. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate on this point has been concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-19-S1-commons.u162	With the consent of the House at 21.50 minutes the sitting is closed tomorrow, Tuesday, October 20, 2020, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's legislative work, according to the agenda that has been distributed to you.
