ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 10-9-2020, the minutes of the SB's meeting of Thursday, 10 September 2020, with regard to the vote on all draft laws:]] 1. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Israel on cooperation in the fight against crime and on matters of public security’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation of the Ministry of Public Order of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Interior of the Russian Federation in the field of crime control of 6 December 2001’. 3. ‘Preparation of an Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on joint control over the Nymfan border passage — Macaza, concluded by an exchange of financial communications (Athens, November 6, 2013 and Sofia, 17 July 2014, respectively)’. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the debate on today's topical and urgent debate, let me make the following announcements: First of all, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Monday 14 September 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Alexandros - Christos Ayloniti to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Towers in Corfu that give rise to questions." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 1000/31-8-2020, by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Unjustly removal of rights to small-scale property and the need to extend for the normalisation of arbitrary structures". 3. The Question No 985/27-8-2020 by H' Vice-President of Parliament and MP B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Stop of district heating in Megalopolis'. B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 1002-1-9-2020, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Ragosi to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "In the three critical trials this year, the Civil Protection Policy proved powerless and accountable. Unique government plan, falsification of reality and the concealment of truth." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1011/7-9-2020 topical question of the Change Movement by Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "In the air the function of the Pathological Department of the General Hospital of Thebes". 3. The question by No 986/28-8-2020 was raised by MP B2' West Athens Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Serious discrimination against the positive people who lack the necessary examinations." 4. The Question No 1007/9-9-2020 of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Why was the House suffocated and bypassed in the adoption of the anti-environmental National Waste Management Plan of New Democracy". 5. Under number 987/28-8-2020, the question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The disossomy of the HYTA Genders affects daily the quality of life and health in western Athens". 6. The Question by MP Pieria of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Elizabeth (Bettet) Scooter to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Actual problem probably harmful dysosmia in areas of the IC. Caterine’. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question, under number 993/31-8-2020, by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arsenis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Privatization of LARCO: Lost of Workers and the Environment". 8. The Question No 1004/1-9-2020 by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament B3' South Athens Section of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: 'No fishing from Turkish trawlers to Greek waters'. 9. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arseni, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Marag redundancies in private schools following the adoption of the new law on private education". 10. Under number 1016/7-9-2020, a topical question by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "National Waste Management Plan: Sucky for National Contractors and huge costs for the environment and households". 11. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arsenis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on 'Strengthening the unregulated placement of wind parks'. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP B3' South Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Balafa to the Minister of Health, entitled 'Reinforcement of the Ilioupoli Health Centre', under number 7636-23-6-20. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Larissa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Vasilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, entitled "Suspension of the operation of the Ellassona Dairy School". 3. The question, under number 7066/329/3-2020, was asked and applied for the submission of documents by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The Special Management Centre for Congenital Heart Diseases in Children of the Hospital "Agia Sophia" and the incidents reported by the hospital in the corresponding section of the Onassis Heart Surgery Center." Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committees on Social Affairs and Production and Trade have submitted their report to the draft Law of the Ministry of Health "Statification (a) of 10-8-2020 of the Act of Legislative Content “Urgent arrangements to address the emergency needs of the National Health System, to protect against the dispersion of the CIVID-19 coronary, to support the labour market and to facilitate the educational process” (A to 157) and to strengthen the General Secretariat for Civil Protection in order to address the consequences of the CIVID-19 pandemic, to provide personal protection and the recruitment of cleanlinesers, to support tourist enterprises and the labour market and to strengthen the General Secretariat for Civil Protection in order to address the consequences of the CIVID-19 pandemic, as well as to support the floods of other COVIDs in order to address the 8th and 9th of August 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that on Friday 11 September 2020 the current questions to be discussed are as follows: The question by number 1010/7-9-2020 of the Member of the Ilias of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Emergent need for the administration of the Department of Music at the Tower", which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Under No 1009/7-9-2020, the question of "The inertia of the government perpetuates the inequalities between the insured and the retired even against the risk of death", which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mr. Panagiotis Tsakloglou. The first question under number 4783/230/9-320 will not be discussed, after consultation, by the question and application of documents of the cycle of petitions and questions by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and of the Athens Parliament, Mr Nikita Kaklamani to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Management and exploitation of the real estate of the former PIKPA (Political Foundation for Social Welfare and Concept)". We shall therefore proceed immediately to the debate on the first under number 1009/7-9-2020 in the first cycle of the Hercule of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The inertia of the Government perpetuates the inequalities between the insured and the pensioners, even in relation to the risk of death". As I said before, the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglu, will respond. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-11-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the establishment of a single social security institution, among other things, was also intended to deal with fragmentation and different treatment not only of pensioners in terms of their pensions but also of those insured as a whole in respect of all benefits. We have a policy area on the part of the insurance institution today which concerns insurance risks, but also critical issues of social protection and family support. They are the insurance risks that are related to death - to start vice versa - with disease, motherhood, and family support, with inclusion in nurseries, camping programs and so on. Since May 2016, therefore, there has been unification of the funds, there has been no consolidation of the benefits, despite the fact that the founding father of EKKA, Article 52, provided that the single list of benefits would have been drawn up by 31 March 2017. The single list of benefits or, better and more appropriately, the single insurance and benefits regulation, but today it is a matter of concern. Although the Government of New Democracy had criticised the SYRIZA at the time that it did not do so, and this was a case of six months, it comes with Law No4670/2020 to give a deadline for the drafting of the single insurance and benefits regulation by 2022, a reference to the future. That is unacceptable, and if anyone could say that for the insured and pensioners of the former funds who joined the ECA, there could be a transitional period, it is unacceptable that the new members of the ECA, starting from 2016 onwards, continue to be treated differently, while they joined the ECA. They have never been insured by the former funds. So this is an anti-corruption, a huge institutional gap, which must and can be immediately covered. We would like your thoughts and your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-11-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-11-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Kegeroglu, the question you have put is very important and I shall refer here to your own experience and to a successful term of office in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. You are also fully aware - and it appeared from your position - that the fragmentation that characterised our insurance system was the one who produced and reproduced inequality and injustice, dividing insured persons and ultimately society itself. The dominant component of the concept of the single social security institution, now e - EVA, is not only, as may be seen by the general public, the functional integration of the services and structures of the insurance funds that have been abolished and are part of it, i.e. e. the EVA, but above all what you mentioned, namely the creation of the Single Insurance Regulation and the Regulation on Provisions. Otherwise, we would simply have a reproduction of the old system under a new body. I would therefore agree with you in the first place that it is not a system that wants to be declared unified, that we do not have unified uniform rules of benefit. The Single Insurance and Occupational Pensions Regulation is a key component of the concept of the Single Social Security Agency, because without uniform rules there can be no operational integration of the services and structures of the repealed insurance funds. Without uniform rules, the social state cannot satisfy the constitutional demands of the equality and equality of treatment of citizens, which are essential components of a favoured state. However, while I agree with Mr Kegeroglu in the general context, I will disagree with him that the law does not apply and that the bad practices of the inertia we have experienced in the past are followed. On the contrary, I would like to assure you that last year we have been making a very great effort in both the Ministry of Labour itself and in the e-ECA to link the social security system to the needs of modern times. Obviously you are fully aware that the integration of the rules in particular in terms of benefits is a difficult process that requires an operational plan and a realistic approach. In any case, in order to come to talk about uniform rules of benefit, we must first ensure uniform rules of contributions, but also uniform procedures for making claims and evaluating them. A large part of this preparatory work, but also a very substantial and important job, has already been completed, or is on the way to completion. I shall give my dentistry some specific examples. At this point I would like to be absolutely honest with you, but also with the Greek citizens who are watching us. The process of streamlining and applying horizontal rules for all citizens without exception will bring about changes in the amount of benefits. We do not overlook the fact that we do not function in greenhouses - some would call it 'leaf tree' conditions - but we are in conditions and environment of budgetary neutrality. Therefore, every attempt to establish uniform rules will move within the corresponding restrictions. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I don't want to take any more time. I shall refer in more detail to my dentistry. I would like to close here by saying that for a truly single body we will only be able to talk when the same rules of contributions lead to the same rules of subsistence, pension and benefits, regardless of the fund from which someone comes. This is not just an issue of equality or equal treatment, it is an issue that touches the core of the social state and we are already moving in that direction and we will soon be seeing results.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-11-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-11-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the uniform rules on insurance contributions were supposed to have been introduced since 2016, supposedly reformed by the Government of New Democracy at the beginning of 2020, supposedly exist. So that's foreseeable. The question is why, while two governments took care of the uniform rules on contributions twice, did they not take care of the uniform rules on benefits? I would point out this, and I think reform in this area is a single one. It is not just with the State's in principle interest but with no interest in the citizen. Here too, budgetary neutrality or benefit will be judged by the procedure, the table and the result. Here, then, we have people who have different treatment in front of death. For others, the cost of a funeral is EUR 600, for others it is 733, for others 800, for others EUR 1,200 and up to 2,500. What single approach are we talking about? The same is true of maternity benefits. Does the child have a different value depending on his father's occupation? And I say again that while there could be an excuse and a need - perhaps - I do not ignore it, there can be a need - for a transitional period of convergence and not instant unification for old insured and retired people, there is no excuse for young people. Is it possible for two citizens or professionals to be insured from May 2016 onwards and have different benefits depending on what was the case in the former funds, where they were never insured? It's a direct question. Can I tell you something else? Always - he says - it's hard work and hard work for the one who doesn't have a choice to do it. There was no choice of the rules to be consolidated, although, as I said, two laws were laid down. I'll tell you why. On 18 July 1919 he delivered himself to the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour - as soon as New Democracy took over - the final proposal, the conclusion of the working group set up for this purpose. Because the previous government of SYRIZA, while recommending the group, continuously postponed the receipt of the findings for its own reasons, because it was not a choice to make this reform, Mr. Brutsis also comes in and receives the conclusion on 18-7-2019 from the hands of the chairman of the committee. And where did the conclusion go from 18-7-2019? I even say that he wanted corrections, he wanted modifications, he wanted improvement. It's fourteen months after that. We've been talking for 15 months. At this speed and at that rate will we also face the new dangers of globalism and, of course, our country? No plan and no direct interest? I would like to ask you, Minister, for something - and it is not about the criticism of your face, of course, because you have recently taken over. There are good reasons why you have taken over. There was a problem. It has not taken on the Prime Minister - I believe - at some point the day has fulfilled some obligation or commitment to make a person of the Minister of Insurance. He has identified a problem - so I think it is normality and so it has been done, if any, to tell us - and assigned the task. If you take up your duties, Minister, please do not continue the same pattern, not the syriza's stumbling-up, not the stumbling-up that Mr Brutsis has continued. I propose a change of understanding, acceleration, to pass on the message as a whole that we can address the new risks and needs that exist in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-11-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-11-S1-commons.u8	As I mentioned in my prototype, the aim of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, in cooperation with the administration and services of e-ECA, is to draw up a suitable and effective, uniform benefit regulation that tackles the injustices, contradictions and bureaucratic inconveniences of the system, a regulation that will provide the right level of benefits to the right beneficiaries at the right time and for the right reason. It sounds macabre what Mr Kegeroglu said and the examples he has given are absolutely correct, that different funds provide very different funeral expenses, while similar contributions have been paid. Apparently, that's unfair. Therefore, in the context of the single regulation, the benefits of some funds, as I have said before, are likely to be strengthened and others will be streamlined. That is exactly what makes us move very carefully in the way we act and in how the Single Procurement Regulation is to be implemented. The first step of the procedure is the Single Cash Benefits Regulation, which includes maternity, sickness, funeral and camping benefits. It is ready and will be published in the next few days the ministerial decision to set up a working group with the participation of representatives of the Ministry and of the e-ECA. This group will have as its task not just to make proposals, which was done with the previous group, which Mr Kegeroglu said, but mainly to cost them. The conclusion we received did not provide the corresponding cost. That does not mean, in any case, that we are not going to take into account all the things that have already been done, that is to say, building on them. And that is why we aspire that this work will be completed in 2021. In fact, I think we will be able to complete it in the first half of 2021, so that then we can move on to disability regulations, but also to the rules for subsistence and subsistence benefits. To return to the question of the preparatory work that has been done recently, I would like to say that, on the one hand, the administrative integration of e-ECA is progressing rapidly, while, on the other hand, the introduction of uniform procedures is on the way. In particular, in the case we are discussing today, in the case of cash benefits, in Article 15 of the new insurance law, of Law No4670, which Mr Kegeroglou mentioned earlier, there is a uniform and very simplified procedure for the submission and examination of claims for benefits, while the relevant Ministerial Decision and the new simple procedure that abolishes all previous statutes and has already started to apply since 17 July 2020. Mr Kegeroglu, we know what has to be done and I can assure you that we are constantly working and we are moving forward in this direction. And, of course, we also have you and the other Members of Parliament, so that through parliamentary control you can control us when required. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I think that the Greek society today requires the state to go beyond the strangles and shortcomings of its social security system, improve the daily life of the insured person, speed up procedures and periods of benefit, ensure equal opportunities, solidarity and equal participation for all citizens and combat discrimination and social exclusion so that we can talk about a fair social state. The social state is at the heart of the debate on the new development model we are pursuing, so that at the same time with budgetary stability we can achieve and improve competitiveness, social cohesion and justice. The basic principle is that when insured persons pay for a similar contribution, they also have similar benefits. And we are certainly working in this direction in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-11-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. We are now moving on to the first under number 1010/7-9-2020, a topical question by the Member of the Ilias Movement of Change by Michael Katrin to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Environmental need to serve the Department of Music at the Tower". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Dyangakis. Here, Mr Papoutsis, you have two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-11-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, the Department of Music at the University of Patras which, as you well know, has been based in the Tower, already has two hundred and three registered students last year and two hundred sixty-seven successful this year. In fact, if we could get some statistics, we would see that more than 80% of students enrolled last year were active, attending courses and giving examinations. It is the only undergraduate section in the cognitive subject of the Museum, and indeed the praisers say that it can invest in innovation and originality by exploiting the Museum as applied science and investment in cultural heritage and sustainable development. At least, although this is premature to say, it seems to have good prospects of professional absorption in this cognitive subject, as it can support the various expressions of culture. That's the good picture. Now let's go to the painful reality. This section with the new law of the previous government was obscured in 2019. Three teachers were moved. Today we're talking, they're only serving two LPD members in this department. Of the thirty-eight posts allocated to the University of Patras in the academic year 2019-2020, none of them were given in this section. Obviously, it was not in the priorities of the previous Republican authority, and your recent decision to allocate to the University of Patras just 12 members' seats from the total two hundred five, which are for all the universities of the country, is causing reasonable concern to the new Republican authority for the viability of this section and not just. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. I would like to add that the two LAG members have the academic responsibility for both the six hundred students of the Department of Economy and Communication of Cultural and Tourism Units of the former Western Greece TEI and you understand, increased academic tasks. Two questions: If you intend to revise the decision and strengthen the University of Patras with additional posts in the LAG, so that the Department of Museology - of course, this is a responsibility shared by the new Rectorate of the University of Patras - and if you will strengthen with teaching staff of the University of Patras, for example.67/81 "Administrative and other staff", this department will be able to support and strengthen the provision of teaching and academic work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-11-S1-commons.u11	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-11-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague, I will answer your questions, but I would like to point out that we are here to see another example of the previous political leadership of the Ministry of Education, with carelessness, irresponsibility, without planning, with micro-policy, shaped the map of higher education without evaluations, with the result that those who are hurt being students, their families and the country. They are results that were seen last year and this year at the bases of the pan-Hellenic examinations, which last year and this year were escalated to 40%. 40% of the departments in the universities of the country were admitted under the base. Let's have a little bit of fun. Founded in May 2019 by Mr.4610 of Mr.Gavroglou. Let me remind you that KINAL had not voted for the law, it had left and, of course, neither you nor I were Members at the time, but the rhetoric question is whether you would agree with your resignation then in the vote on this bill. Do you think you did the right thing then? How was the Department of Musical Science established? It was founded as a partial successor to the Department of Economy and Communication of Cultural and Tourism Units of the former Western Greece TEI. Irrelevant objects! He was a partial successor. And why am I saying that? Because part of the former TEI's teaching staff went to this department, as well as part of the students of the former TEI who wanted to complete their studies went to this department. He could have gone to more. So questions arise how students of a department with another, irrelevant object, will complete their studies in a Department of Music. As you said right, he has two ITP members. Its base in 2020 was formed at seven thousand twenty-five points, while in 2019 it was about eight and a half thousand molecules. Of the hundred ninety-two invaders with the new system in this section, it was the first choice for ten of them, and for a hundred fifty-five of them it was not even in the first five options. Now let's take a look at the staff in the department. It has two permanent members and has three administrative staff at the same time as they were placed at the branch secretariat by the university administration. Of the five hundred PLEN posts that had been allocated to the universities in previous years, thirty-eight were given to the University of Patras and you know that because of the self-employed it is the responsibility of the university itself and its consortium how to allocate these posts to the universities. With our recent decision, we gave two hundred plus two IPA positions, namely the two were already allocated and the two were distributed next month, and the way these positions were allocated to the universities was known and agreed with the Rectors' Conference. We said that these four hundred total posts would go in proportion to the withdrawals of TEN members last year. At the University of Patras they had twenty - two pensions, two evacuated positions due to death and four left positions. So against these positions, depending on the positions given, he took 12 and will take so many more with the next two hundred positions given the next month. But, in order not to take any more time, I will speak in my dentistry and additional reinforcement that the University of Patras will have with staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-11-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-11-S1-commons.u14	Minister, you're obviously confused. Your role here is not to ask, is to answer the questions. And since you have made a general position, which lacks reasonable and valid criticism in relation to the philosophy of the previous leadership of the Ministry of Education, I will read what the chairman of the National Higher Education Authority stated in an interview last Sunday. It says, "The correct conclusions on the course of higher education in our country do not come out of the results of the introductory examinations, especially in a year that changed all aspects of human activity and of course attracted the operation of schools. Nor, of course, must decisions on the country's academic map be taken warmly and under the influence of critics for closing schools." Mitkas Pericles, at "Kathemerini", Sunday, September 6. If what Mr Mitkas says about what you said in your protology goes hand in hand, I leave them in the judgment of what they have seen, and at some point you have to decide as a general line of the Ministry of Education - because the report of the National Assessment Authority of Higher Education - what is your strategy and line, and on what criteria, you will proceed with the evaluation of the departments, without, of course, ignoring the wrong and many times, micro-political decisions of the previous government and the previous leadership of the Ministry of Education. You know, the question does not come in a neutral political and time environment. There is already a suspension of the Department of Science, Physical Education and Sport at the Tower. You presented in a certain way the operation of the Department of Music, despite the fact that I told you that in the first year of operation over 80% were active students. And we're talking about the Department of Music and Science and Physical Education and Sport, next to Ancient Olympia in Ancient Ilida, Epicurio Apollo, in Hlemucci Castle, in an area where I think a government that would also have a development perspective in the field of higher education and would probably attract foreign students, would see it as a golden opportunity and would not even pose it as a subject of discussion. You answered the first question. The distribution of at least twelve of what I understood - correct me, if I am mistaken - members of the LAG at the University of Patras. There is yesterday's decision of the senate calling for twenty-eight LAG members, which are equal to the number they left. He has not yet been informed - I do not know if that is why you can inform us - of the appropriations for contract teachers in e.g. 67/81. Last year was thirty three, this year there is still no specific decision. And of course, he points out the danger to the new departments that they will have a serious problem of viability, within which the Department of Music in the Tower is part of it. Is the question then that Elias will be on the map of higher education, based on the Ministry's intentions? It is a section which needs to be assessed - Mr Mitkas says so - and I am not saying it - on the basis of the professional perspectives of competitiveness of study and of programme quality, teaching staff where there are obviously problems, but all this determines the rate of student graduation. A part which has been weakened from the outset and which is not supported you understand that its operation is being undermined. Here, therefore, we need support for teaching staff, but, Minister, we also need support for administrative EIB staff, Librarians. A section that wants to have a serious function as a tertiary institution, should in all appearances and all modes of operation be substantially staffed. I therefore think that you should re-evaluate, as the head of the Ministry of Education, the competitiveness and the prospects of this section and not just one - apologise for the expression - 'huge' to the degree of introduction, which not myself as a questioner, Mr Mitkas has established six days ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-11-S1-commons.u15	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-11-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, we are the last to close and open sections with decisions from the political leadership. The reason and proof is that the first bill we brought to higher education was the establishment, establishment, upgrading of the National Higher Education Authority, so that the map of higher education can be formulated with evaluation, strategic planning and without micropolitical as it has been done so far. So we are fully in agreement with the positions expressed by Mr Metkas. That's the strategy, that's the design. I mentioned a few examples for this section to show you that in the irresponsible way in which the Charter of Higher Education has been designed today, with the number of admissions to universities to be twice as high as the average of the rest of Europe - and that is why there is no good vocational education in the country and that is why the next draft law of the Ministry of Education will concern vocational education and lifelong learning - we are reaching these phenomena. Clearly the university has a huge role to play in the development of a local economy, but not in the form of domestic tourism, which is unfortunately the prevailing perception today, but in the form of its interconnection with the economy and active interaction with the local economies of the country. I shall, however, supplement the other questions you have raised, and I shall refer to the temporary staff for this section of Médecins du Monde. As far as temporary staff are concerned, we already have the program of obtaining academic experience in young scientists, holders of a doctorate at the University of Patras. For the 2020 academic year, that is to say, it has already announced five positions of doctoral holders in order to teach thirteen lessons of this section. Five administrative posts have been allocated to the University of Patras and it is his decision to distribute them. Five secondary secondments have been carried out in posts of specialist teaching staff. I will now tell you two more measures to strengthen all universities. Extraordinary staff, I think, refer to n.d. 407/80. I suppose that's what you're talking about. Two hundred and eighty-two positions are given to all universities. This year we are taking another measure because of the pandemic, the health crisis. Since we want to strengthen teaching in small groups, we want to strengthen workshops and clinical exercises, through action launched in the Human Resources Programme: "Education and Lifelong Learning 2014-2020" will provide two thousand postgraduate students and candidates in all Greek universities, in order to support this teaching project. Finally, the last tool that universities have, in addition to all the others I have mentioned to you, is the recruitment of academic scholars under the provisions of Law 4009, whose recruitment process lies with the university institutions themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-11-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-11-S1-commons.u18	With the agreement of the House at 9.45 p.m., the sitting is closed on Monday 14 September 2020 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda to be distributed.
