ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the agenda for legislative work, I would like to make two announcements to this House: The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order, presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: "Election of MPs". Also, the President of the Merra25 Parliamentary Group and the MPs of his party tabled a legislative proposal on 20-120: "Provisions concerning the election of MPs and the electoral system". They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religion: "National Authority of Higher Education, Special Accounts for Research in Higher Education Institutions, Research and Technology and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 14 January 2020 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, on articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. It is true that, as every time, the electronic registration system is now being opened and my colleagues, who are in the Chamber or in the end of the second rapporteur, are being asked to join the system. If there's a slight delay, it's obvious that there's going to be a tolerance. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Euripides Stylianides, has been speaking for 15 minutes now. Mr. Stylianides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing today from the Step of the Greek Parliament to all the young people of our country and to their parents who in recent years have been inflamed by their confidence in the state, to a state which has been sloppy and recklessly left to develop schools without professional rights, studies without an impact on the labour market that produces unemployed people with degrees, children who are ready to leave abroad to find their guidance, educational programmes without qualitative evaluation and scientific objects without prospects. I am addressing parents who have seen their children choose universities not on the basis of the professions of the future or the conquest of modern knowledge, but on the basis of fashion, because some of their classmates have chosen it or taboo because they have been cultivated that they should only do specific professions - doctors, lawyers, engineers - without selecting sectors of the top and bottom-up national economy that supports the country's GDP, such as shipping professions. This shattered relationship between youth and family on the one hand and the state on the other is trying to restore the government with this bill, considering it as the first fundamental step in a series of changes and reforms that will follow. Our aim is to train in qualityly evaluated programmes to successfully lead young people through the professions of the future to their immediate integration into the labour market and, at the same time, to conquer the real education that guarantees not only the high standard of living, but also a mature and fair society, because for us education is the aim of education. Education is something higher, more substantial, deeper and more complete than mere education. Education is a worthwhile code, national and cultural identity, intake of fresh knowledge and modern information, possession of modern know-how, self-consciousness and self-consciousness, skills development, correct choices of ways and directions, essential and typical preparation for integration into the Greek and international labour market with a feeling of self-confidence, with the ability to continuously improve the quality, ability and effectiveness of the new scientist. This draft law comes at a critical moment to respond to a series of agonizing searches for young people who are looking for their step forwards, parents who are struggling for the professional perspective of their children, the educational and academic community that is concerned about the curiosity, lightness, distortions, mistakes and omissions of the past. This bill does not only seek to abolish, but to correct and above all to supplement the institutional framework, by harmonising it with the European environment. Its main features are that it is not a faculty but a student. It proposes education, and not just education, by highlighting standards of excellence. It promotes the extroversion and internationalization of the Greek HEI, rather than their closure, isolation and ossification. It links funding to quality and efficiency assessment. It establishs the ongoing assessment, overcoming the idea of and the establishment of the mediterranean dictatorship. It adopts mobility in education and research, creating a direct conflict with the forces of inertia. It connects the education of all levels to the market, highlighting the national authority in a vehicle not only existing but also future curriculum, which will respond to the professions of the future, the professions of the peak, the needs of local communities hosting university institutions and the realistic expectations of our national economy. It implements Article 5A of the Cyber Access Rights Constitution. With the state IT certificate it hits digital illiteracy and facilitates preparation for the new era. It emits a strong social state signal, creates conditions of accessibility for SMEs, gender equality, the environmental footprint of institutions, and ensures luxury. It answers the key question: "Who is doing the research in Greece, who oversees it and how does it motivate it, the market, the state, the university or all together?" It establishes the development of a national educational strategy, which is coordinated by the state, the academic community, society and the market, which will respond to the needs of the labour market, to shield the worthy of our culture and to meet the national and international challenges of the future. The draft law followed the modern process and principles of good legislature. It entered public consultation between 4 and 18 December 2019, bringing together a hundred nine comments, taken into consideration. Completed with a explanatory statement, a table of amended and repealed provisions, a report from the General Accounting Office of the State, a specific report assessing the effect of the arrangements and a consultation report. In particular, it consists of sixty-four articles, which are legally structured into five chapters. Chapter I, in Articles 1 to 19, seeks to develop the old ADI to a modern National Higher Education Authority, which is fully upgraded, reorganised and aims at the reform of universities and their systematic and dynamic alignment with modern European data. The new organisational structure of the Authority shall be based on the Chairperson, the Board, the evaluation and certification board and the Director-General. The responsibilities of the National Higher Education Authority are considerably strengthened. Firstly, the establishment of the national strategy for higher education is being introduced, which must be compatible with the general national orientation of our country, the needs of Greek society and the potential of the national economy. Secondly, they are evaluated before, during and after universities, schools and departments, while it is decided to establish, merge, partition or abolish them if they do not lead to professional rights and real prospects in the economy. The main are specialities and fields that the Greek economy really needs. A criterion for the choice of children and their families, as I said, who now trust the state, is not the taboos of the past, nor the decision of the company, nor the city that offers good student life. It is the profession, it is science, which is the orientation, which will lead the child to complete education and facilitate integration into the national and international labour market. The state through the national authority must guarantee high-level studies, top sectors that complete the personality of the young person, meet the economic investment of its family and lead to peak professions that meet the needs of the Greek economy and of course the Greek society. Thirdly, for the first time, public funding without jeopardising the operation of traditional schools, which absorb 80% of their inappropriate expenditure on objective criteria, motivates universities to show positive mobility by giving them the 20% bonus. The criteria of this incentive enhance the quality, research activity, the internationalisation of higher education institutions, through their cooperation with foreign institutions, their association with the labour market, the increase, as is said, of the employability of their students, who are once they have graduated from the market. Fourthly, the Evaluation and Certification Council assesses all cycles before, during and after, and for the first time, thematic evaluations concerning internationalisation strategies, issues relating to gender equality, environmental footprint, accessibility of SMEs, the use of new technologies and other such criteria are also introduced. The dependence of 20% of public funding on all social, intelligent and international actions is blocking our universities from the power of inaction and creates a new mobility, a fertile speech and a rewarding extroversion. In Chapter II, and in particular in Articles 20 to 27, we are answering the key questions: 'Who is carrying out the research in Greece, the university or the market?' The university is given a unique opportunity to regain its own space, i.e. the area of fresh knowledge and modern information. The main feature of the remodeling is the combination of flexibility and speed on the one hand, with accountability and transparency on the other. I will not go into the details of the special accounts, because we will be able to analyse it in the debate on the articles. In Chapter III, for the first time, the State certificate of informatics is laid down in Articles 28 to 32. It specialises and actively strengthens Article 5A of the Constitution, which considers as equal access to access not only the possibility of having fibre or access to a wifi, not only the possibility of having a computer but also to know how to handle new technology. On substance, the certificate comes to widen the battle against digital illiteracy and cover this aspect of access, i.e. computer management knowledge, so that one can enter the internet and benefit from it. In Chapter IV, a series of loose ends, arising from misappropriations, mistakes or prejudices of the past, are resolved, but in no way will young people be affected by the decisions taken by the legislator. Article 33 suspends the training function of the thirty-seven departments established by the previous government, without respecting the evaluation process, with haste, roughness and perhaps even pre-electional feasibility. Article 34 deletes the religion and nationality of the certificates of studies and thus substantially complies with the Ministry's Decision 28 of the Personal Character Authority. Article 37 ensures the effective administration of the International University in a flexible and functional manner. Article 43 facilitates the admission of foreign students to Greek language courses. Language is power, it is the tool of extroversion, it is the instrument of foreign policy, it is the strengthening of the international Philatelic current. Article 46 ensures that trainees are moved to second-rate schools. It is an important aspect of social policy. Article 44 provides greater autonomy for the school unit for organising school tours. Article 50 restores compliance with the law of the European Union with regard to the recognition of professional qualifications and professional equivalence and equivalence. In Article 51, we guarantee the trust of students at the University of West Attica in the selection of completion of the curriculum. In Article 54, the possibility of examinations by a group of schools is abolished, while in Article 55 we are looking for a large family. Article 56 establishes the day of celebration of the Three Hierarchs, January 30, as a school celebration and not as a holiday. The reintroduction of the Three Hierarchs' feast is the restoration of a void caused by the previous government by its abolition. SYRIZA imposed a holiday. In essence, it abolished the celebration of the Three Hierarchs. He thus sought, satisfying the sense of the students to lose a lesson, to deny them the opportunity to be informed of the enlighteners of the Orthodox faith, who brought Orthodoxy closer to the Greek spirit. This attitude then condemned by the Church of Greece reveals their desire to impose a religiously indifferent state that allegedly invokes the principles of the religiously neutral state. Here also seems our qualitative difference from SYRIZA, who even in the Revision of the Constitution sought to abolish what has to do with Orthodox tradition and faith. Challenging and provoking, he even sought to identify our Church with the State, misinterpreting the term "predominant religion". And he deliberately ignored the fact that the term "predominant religion" does not identify the Orthodox Church and faith with the State, but matches him with the vast majority of the Greek people. In fact, in the committee, a SYRIZA colleague sought inadmissiblely to identify the decision to reinstate the Orthodox Enlightenment Enlighteners with Iran's extreme Islamic regime. But that, ladies and gentlemen, is our difference. We do not smell it or slander it to abolish it. We let it be free, as provided for in Article 13 of the Constitution for religious freedom, and we respect it in practice. But you, in ideology and prejudice, are fighting, questioning and slandering about the Orthodoxy and tradition of this people, ignoring the historical role played by the Church of Greece in all the national and social struggles of our nation. Article 58 requires the uninterrupted operation of school units, mainly in remote areas, by the refusal of teachers to fulfil their duties and has been placed there. Chapter E includes transitional and repealing provisions. This bill is a first attempt to defeat the forces of inertia and idealism that often ensue the most sensitive but also dynamic part of our society and state, which are no more than our youth and the educational world. The liberation of healthy forces, the defeat of the dictatorship of moderates, the return of excellence, the strengthening of quality and extrovertism can make our homeland an international educational centre, stressing the real economy, supporting the tested society and exploiting education as our national comparative advantage. Whatever national strategy we decide on, one is certain, ladies and gentlemen, that its root and foundation cannot be from education. Because it's all about education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, too, Mr. Stylianides. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Merope Jufi, is now being asked to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after six months of fragmentary legislation, with last minute amendments and provisions in bills of other ministries, the Ministry of Education finally brings to Parliament its own draft law, limited, but unfolding the New Democracy's reactionary draft for education. It is a project that in many of its critical provisions is not costly, although it has clear financial implications, a project that undermines the future of thousands of people who have been educated and supported by the public university, a project that has rightly caused considerable reactions to the educational community with a very large placement of too many organisations, universities, ICP members, and even of your trade unions standing across the street. I'm going to testify on the Minutes. So I come to the first part on the Independent Quality Assurance and Certification Authority in Higher Education. In fact, the Government is going on to abolish this independent authority after 15 years of continuous operation. The pretext, of course, is rename and upgrade. In fact, however, the institutional framework is being changed. It changes the name, without anyone knowing why it is necessary, as well as how to choose the administration with the eruption of today's leadership, removing the unsatisfactory and unwilling to implement its policy to an absolute extent. It is an indication of what we have heard at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Youth, Youth, Education and the Media. We have heard that the Minister did not inform the President of the PPP under-removal of its intentions and imminent changes. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the government proves, despite all you blame us, that you are not respecting the extent to which they should also be included in a bill that concerned them exclusively, this particular independent authority. I would remind you that in our own governance we have not abolished it and, of course, we have not removed any administration. We invite you to reconsider. However, Minister, your argument that everything will go better with this independent authority has not convinced us. You are talking about upgrading the principle, but for six months you are consciously undermining its function. I am referring to your decision not to sign the appointment of the new member of the Management Board, blocking the functioning of the Authority in so far as the Board of Directors cannot recover and take decisions due to a lack of quorum. The recent letter of resignation of my colleague from the University of Patras and a member of the Board of Directors exposes you irreparably. It speaks of a great and unexpected upheaval, expressing the hope that there will not be any serious consequences for Greek higher education. It also states that by your own intervention the planned visit of the European network of Independent Quality Assurance Authorities, which was to visit Greece at the end of January in order to evaluate the PPP and its work, was postponed. I shall submit the relevant letter to the Minutes. In addition, correspondence that has leaked to the press through the IPTO and the European Authority reveals that, with the initiatives taken by the new IPIP, it is threatened to remain outside the European framework for more than a year with what this means to higher education institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to us that the government has been acceding to the establishment of this new authority, which it calls the National Higher Education Authority, with a view to indirect manipulation and its full control. This testifies to the arrangement that strengthens the supervisory role of the Minister of Education, transforming the new IP into a strap of transferring government's higher education policy. At the same time that you theoretically transfer to the new authority increased responsibilities, such as evaluation, allocation of funding and design of the academic map, in the same way, invoking its own independence, you choose to avoid the political cost of the unpopular reforms that you promote for the Greek universities. One of the most upcoming, most unpopular arrangements is the change in the model of funding for higher education institutions, for which you have even rushed to state that you are ideologically proud. Proud, but as it turns out you will create serious financial problems in public universities and pass them on to reasonable and market-based practices as if they were business and not to the academic community. You have stated that the funding of the HEIs in the past was made at the request of the Minister. I refer you to L.4009/2011 and to Article 73, entitled ‘Summary of the public funding of S.H.I.’, where specific criteria and indicators are laid down. And of course I'll testify to it in the Minutes, although you know it. These are precisely the indicators you mention for 80% of the funding. And that's to finish half the truths and create impressions. Nor is there - because you said so - a decision of the Committee on Budgets, which was proposed to the previous leadership and not accepted. On the other hand, there had been working committees which had been set up at the initiative, but which did not reach any specific conclusions. According to your regulation, the financing of HEIs will be made on the basis of the general criteria, as was the case until now, 100%, and 20%, on the basis of private and non-private criteria. Here the new principle that has been introduced will play its part and will facilitate you in decisions, as I have said before. Where an IIT fails to achieve its quality and achievement indicators, the funding it will not receive as a consequence of the evaluation will be allocated to the financing of other higher education institutions and shall be defined as one of the tasks of that authority. Therefore, the criteria are not criteria for rewarding higher education institutions. They're punishing criteria. You said that we have no confidence and you have confidence in higher education institutions. So, get away from the suggestion made to you by the decision of the meeting of the Presidents, like many other congressmen, of the National Technical University, the Ioannina Declaration, multiple Ioannina Members' Associations, who consider that with existing sub-funding in the higher education institutions what you are proposing, will broaden the inequalities between higher education institutions, intensify internalisation, trigger internal conflicts in the country's scientific and research community. At the same time, there is no doubt that it will weaken the weakest universities, which are regional or some of the regional universities and will lead them to a search for resources outside the public purse. You know, Mrs Kerameou and Mr Digalakis, the universities are asking you to maintain last year's funding rates. Instead, you choose to enter market-applied funding models that trample academics and prescribe, for at least some of them, a 20% reduction in funding. Listen to the opinion of the universities! Share their anxietys and reservations! Focus on the real needs of universities, which are as strong as they can be with resources and staff, and I am pleased that you are saying this at least at the last minute - the one-to-one rule because I remember that here you were talking about rule 1 to 5, which we have legislated and which the higher education institutions have a great need. We stress once again that beyond our ideological approaches and our differences and internationally this model did not produce the expected results. That is why Europeans have turned to other policies through the European networks of universities, which have successfully started several of our own universities to be part of them and to move forward in this very important direction. I shall now proceed to the PPE. This second part relates to the PPE of the universities and research centres of Greece. One of your original commitments, if I'm not mistaken, was that you'd put them out of public account. You haven't achieved it. You're being strongly criticised. For our part, we believe that the introduction of PPE into the public accounting system is not a mistake in principle. Although their subjection was made to deal with phenomena of mismanagement, transparency and accountability, it did lead to a bureaucratic stature of thousands of academic researchers and managers. So the previous law, our own, was a first attempt to improve this framework of operation. Indeed, some of the proposed provisions are a continuation of this effort for a more flexible and effective operating framework. And so, in this type of provision, which simplifies cost-approval procedures and facilitates, we will be positive. In addition to these provisions, however, there is also Article 60 which provides for the legalisation of categories of expenditure to be effected by way of derogation from the legislation. Despite my constant questions to the committees, I have so far not been given convincing answers - which I expect in the current procedure - about the level and origin of expenditure. What is the financial burden resulting from and what is the recommendation from the General Accounting Office of the State? I come to Chapter III, which is the State Certificate of Informatics - we welcome it - which is adopted. An important initiative of the SYRIZA government, which was institutionalised in December 2018 by the outgoing Minister, Kostas Gavroglou, and following the July national elections, was not possible for candidate students to give the relevant examinations. We are absolutely positive in this direction. I come to the question of Article 33 and the removal of the thirty-seven sections of the EIT. The policy you have pursued so far in relation to public education is a policy of shrinking, suspending and closing. In the first few days, therefore, you have decided to suspend for an indefinite period the sixty-seven free two-tier training programmes for graduates of the ESDP - the higher education institutions had requested and the corresponding resources had also been committed - the abolition of the Law School in Patras. You have continued to abolish the possibility of restricted access for pupils to higher education and are currently continuing with the indefinite suspension of these thirty-seven new departments at eleven universities in the country. Of course, you are constantly referring to the fact that these served micro-political purposes, they did not have specific academic criteria, they had no prior feasibility studies, there was no consistent planning. And at an earlier sitting here in the House, the State Secretary responsible had spoken, in fact, about a conciliation between SYRIZA and the universities. Of course, this argument, in my personal view, has collapsed, been disproved by the universities themselves, the precursors and the congressors, who have proposed the introduction of these new sections, they have incorporated them - and they have told you - into their strategic planning and have the sole responsibility for their operation. Some, in fact, universities had already begun their procedures for staffing these departments, to receive students. I am also making a point here about the position of the EIC, Mr Dimopoulos, for two parts, which are particularly extroverted, in terms of strategic planning, which you have answered, that the new PIC will see when and when convened, i.e. refer back to the bells. So you narrow down public education, you close departments, you do not respect what universities and their self-government are saying, and you are definitely seducting the future of many regional institutions, as they will suffer the possible reduction in funding by 20% if they cannot meet the private and financial evaluation criteria. And of course, you are planning and having announced the reduction of admissions, the introduction of bases depending on the institutions' suggestions, but also the deletion of students who go beyond the curriculum. Instead, our own state, for which you are constantly criticising, is that despite the financial constraints in which we are located, we have tried to broaden the academic map of the country in a coherent way, in consultation with universities, academic community and local communities. We increased funding, set up institutions with IGC members and new researchers, restored rule 1 to 1 on withdrawals - recruitments, established academic rules at all levels of study and tried to deal with chronic distortions and, of course, to promote transparency in the management of funds. And I come to college regulation, which is well known, as the teachers' DAC says, that it has come from the window at the last minute. It is the arrangement that has led to the outcry of an assembly of the educational community, because by Article 50 the qualifications awarded by private colleges will be accepted by the AACC for appointment to primary and secondary education. Why, Mrs Kerameus, are you amending the law on appointments to education at this point in time when, in fact, the previous competition on special education and training, which has already been completed with this law, has already been completed? By the arrangements you bring you bypass Article 16 of the Constitution, as you know very well. Since you were unable to establish private universities in Greece, you are allowing graduates of private colleges to enter not from the window, but from the door to the public. You are invoking Union law, but you are basically behind it. You have, of course, provided the opportunity to recognise the professional equivalence of higher education qualifications not only by Member States but also by third countries, which are obviously the United Kingdom in the post-Brexit era and the United States. Reiterate, in other words, the status established by the Minister of Education Arvanitopoulos, which gives graduates of private colleges, providing qualifications in cooperation with unknown or moderate foreign universities, the possibility of hiring the public and particularly the educational system. In fact, to get out of the political deadlock, you say that we had also used similar arrangements in the past in the notices of assistant teachers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a minute, two minutes, Mr President, even ending. So this is an attempt to distort reality. You know that SYRIZA changed the status as soon as the country came out of the Memorandum and in view of the fifteen thousand permanent appointments to education. In this law, Law No 4589/2019, exactly this political choice is reflected. On the other hand, the regulation you are proposing favours collegeers and private interests involved in education. The existing acquisition market is strengthened in and out of Greece, while it is moving competitively in terms of the public university and its graduates. You turn against thousands of graduates from public universities, to teachers' servants, who with labor and sacrifice have acquired knowledge and academic skills. You're turning against the public university. That is why - as I said before - the decisions of the National Technical University, the University of Ioannina, and, of course, all the educational federations, which are asking you - are protesting - to withdraw Article 50 and not allow the institutions and diplomas they provide to be underestimated. As far as the three Hierarchs are concerned, a situation has indeed arisen - alas. You sent two contradictory cartoons in two days. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, do you also agree with the view that holidays are for lazy people? I would say that you are making a conscious effort to reinstate church, catechism and religious manifestations as a compensatory measure to the forced removal of the religion from the disciples' dismissals, following the decision of the C.E.D. - in which the candidate President-in-Office of the Republic had played a leading role - on unconstitutionalism and on the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. Our position is simple: not in catechism. The school also operates at the beginning of the day to read a message from the Minister of Education. I can't make it. I've exceeded my time. I have been placed in the committees for the rest of the articles. I imagine I will be able to argue in my dentistry because in some of them we are saying 'at present' or we are voting against it. Ladies and gentlemen, for SYRIZA education and, in particular, systematic and organised education is a fundamental public and social asset. It is a universal right, a valuable and irreplaceable provision for all people personally and for society as a whole. The education and research carried out at universities and public research centres in the country is also a key lever for the development of the country. The increased expenditure on education and research is a necessity, especially for the country's progress, for the final exit from the economic crisis and the necessity and obligation to the new generation. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Merope Jufi, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Jufi. Before entering the special speakers, I would like to ask whether there is a colleague who has failed to say that he will speak, because the system will be closed. If someone's in the Chamber, he can say it now. As far as I can see, there is no one. Please close the system. The rapporteur for the Change Movement now has the floor for 15 minutes by Mrs Harula (Harah) Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a very important draft education legislation today, but the Ministry, unfortunately, is blurring its value. Continuing the practice of fragmenting measures on major issues within a squabble of dispersed, contradictory and unclear regulations, the Government - otherwise has education as a national priority - starting with its own brand name with a draft law cut off and based on PASOK's n.4009/2011. Of course, there is no shortage of'surprises' always 'other provisions', through which decisions are taken on serious, completely procedural, regardless of the subjects involved, which were to be the main body of another bill for primary and secondary education. After six months of governance of the New Democracy, the bill for the National Authority of Higher Education - ETHAE - and the Special Accounts - ΕΚΕ - of EIT aims at restoring transparency and strengthening the autonomy and accountability of higher education institutions. At the same time, it attempts to link the results of the evaluation to a part of the funding of the institutions. So these arrangements are not new. The concept of evaluation of the EITs of the country was laid down and applied in practice at the legislative initiative of the PASOK, with a landmark law, which was then embraced by almost all the political world and correspondingly "removed" quietly and methodically before it could be implemented. After historian time, SYRIZA fought the idea of evaluation, betting on minor effort, inappropriateness and ultimately in levelling. The questioning of the role of the IPD came as a natural result. In the work of two inspiring women of education ministers of two different political spaces, Marietta Giannakus with Law 3374/2005 and Anna Diamantopoulou with Law 40009/2011 only needed one term of "the first time left" to leave stains of dissolution and decline. Ladies and gentlemen, after the debate in the committees, the shortcomings, failures, hagglings and malfunctions have emerged, which lose one of the most valuable tools for the development of our country, education. So what should be done? This question seems not even to have been raised by the leadership of the Ministry of Education, in order to understand the need for national dialogue on education and the need to reconstitute the ERC, which we are constantly calling for. Without this concern, however, how do we expect answers and similar integrated legislative initiatives? And if I point out the fragmentation of the arrangements, it is because the lack of strategy, the lack of a global approach and an overall viewpoint has implications and is unfair to any attempt. We have often asked what the government's overall plan for education is, an integral part of which is NATIONAE, the EBRD and - since we put it all through - the school excursions, the holidays of the three Hierarchs, the certificates of language and colleges. Do you know what you've answered? You have referred us to the election brochure of the New Democracy. It is like saying to the House, and ultimately to the citizen, that 'I have already decided what to do and I do not listen to anyone here, and we are simply observing the pretexts'. Education is a national issue, however, and as such cannot be replaced by the election programme of any party. This is mainly because any election programme we have, however good it may be, is missing the basic element of democratic governance that is national dialogue. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our country and our universities can, and we dream of it, become a global education centre. But this, in order for it to become a reality, needs much more than scattered provisions. There is a need for a national education strategy over time. Undoubtedly, the most crucial issues raised in this bill are the establishment of the ETHAEC - to date IPPC - and the EBRD. So let's start from Chapter I - Articles 1 to 19 - on NGO. Madam Minister, I would also like to thank you personally on behalf of the Change Movement for incorporating the proposals we have put forward as a contribution to this first draft education bill. The role of NCAs as an Independent Authority should be strictly advisory. Is it really? Its task is to specialize in this strategy. What strategy is there? The establishment of a national strategy is and must be the task of the government following a national dialogue and the necessary convergences. The NEAFC cannot undertake this strategy unless it specialises and monitors its implementation by the universities. In this bill, the Ministry started backwards. It strengthens the external audit and supervisory body, without previously addressing the big issue of the management bodies themselves. Simple logic says we're starting from the beginning. First discussion on the university institutions themselves and then discussion on the external supervisory and control bodies. Otherwise, what self-interest are we talking about, ladies and gentlemen? This reversal of the beginning of the debate circumvents the constitutionally regulated self-government of universities. On the financing issues of the HEIs, which must not be forgotten that they have already suffered drastic reductions from the state budget, they have lost, without, unfortunately, a large part of their staff, while the invaders are growing, and we have also expressed serious reservations to the committee. I am referring to the famous article 16 on state grant for HSY. We do not understand how the state funding of 20% of the country's EITs will actually be implemented, when funding is conditional on fulfilment of criteria based on indicative indicators of quality and achievements that each EIT chooses to evaluate. It is absolutely questionable whether this grant, which requires a large number of procedures, will be possible to be granted in the financial year or in practice it will be a 20% reduction in the State grant to the HEIs, under the pretext of fault of the HEIs themselves rather than the Ministry. This is why the remaining 20% of the funding foreseen will be provided as long as the institutions achieve their objectives to be allocated, there should be a programme agreement between the Ministry of Education and the IMI, in which the objectives are set. In the second year and after the objectives have been set, an assessment should be made to assess whether they have been achieved. The bill provides for thematic evaluations of individual activities of the IITs, such as the absorption of graduates in the labour market. As has been pointed out, however, there is no comparative assessment, for example of the research work of similar sections, of the costs per student in similar sections, and so on. And, unfortunately, they will show the strengths and weaknesses of individual institutions or their units and they inform the public, students and students of the quality of the sections they choose. In our opinion, this means timely and valid accountability. Minister, when the evaluation is carried out properly and in accordance with procedures which institutions do not kneel with bureaucracy, it serves primarily the objective of discovering weaknesses and deficiencies to be dealt with by the IMIs with the state and not a punishment. The evaluation must be carried out in the form of a modular rather than a punishment. Thus, additional funding turns into a tool that helps universities to develop, strengthen and exploit their strengths, address their potential weaknesses, achieve their goals and provide quality education to their students. Of course, the assessment and certification of higher education by NISA should not only be exhausted on the side of universities. Equally critical are the State's obligations to support the implementation of the programme agreements. The state’s response to its own obligations should also be assessed. A key issue is the continuation of the NEAFC's operation under the new regime. It should be ensured without cancelling the current evaluation and certification procedures, which would mean delays, suffering for the universities and institutional inconsistency of the official state. I conclude, first, Chapter I, with a small point on Article 19 concerning centres of excellence. The centres of excellence, you know, are already institutionalised by Article 75 of L.4009/2011. For us, they are a practice in the positive direction and create incentives for further development. In any case, however, in the context of the reward, they should be linked to the additional funding, in addition to the financing of universities. The law should further specify both the structure of the evaluation criteria and the way centres of excellence are rated and the additional support to them should be given to them. That is why we are voting against all Chapter I, except for the centres of excellence referred to in Article 19. I am going to Chapter II for the PPE, articles 20 to 27. Here there are procedural arrangements for the functioning of the PPE. We shall vote on them, of course, but you also know that they do not resolve the basic issue and the basic request for the EUPM discharge meeting from the public accounting procedures, as the EUPMs continue to be the bodies of the General Government. It's selfish, and we think it's not responding to the needs of the time. What, then, are you doing with regard to the PPE? Previous bureaucratic provisions come and are replaced by new provisions, but do not facilitate any procedures. And red tape keeps good! In fact, the scientific person in charge of a project remains the puppet of bureaucracy. In other words, be careful, the person who, with a personal effort, brings funding to the IEI remains committed to the bureaucracy and additional procedural obligations you impose on him. A classic case is what is done with the eligible costs, which is now an obligation to select the scientific director rather than the PPE. In fact, on the one hand, you consider that the scientific person is incapable of managing the funding he has brought to the IEO and, on the other hand, he becomes accountable for the responsibilities he should not have. However, without the flexibility needed to initiate his research work, he does not change anything, and so we cannot hope for the coming of new scientists much more. We'll have to wait patiently until the latter's retirement. What do we think? There is a need for a radical revision of the EPPS by means of measures and articles which will provide for a reorder of all the responsibilities of the scientific officer, allowing him, on his own responsibility, to issue only by signing the implementation and payment orders within the approved budget that can reduce bureaucracy. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I will use my dentistry as well, Mr President. Thank you. We insist on the decommissioning from public accounting and the establishment of legal persons under private law for the use and management of the resources of the EIT. I would remind you that it was provided for in Article 58 of Law 4009/2011. The relevant provisions of the Ministry are well below the need for immediate release of the investigation from the bureaucratic strangulation of public accounting. It is far below the expectations that you yourself have created with your announcements and with the relevant publications. Also, there are no corresponding forecasts for the management of the ordinary budget, leaving an important part of the university actions literally at the mercy of an incredible bureaucracy. Madam Minister, I am going to Chapter III, Articles 28 to 32, on the State Informatics Certificate. A State Certificate of Informatics is provided under the auspices of the Ministry of Education by exams and exams. We think it is in the right direction, but we would also be interested in giving a skeleton with the basic principles. Where do you say when a child gets the State Certificate? Nowhere. The plan we set out said that in the third grade students could get the Informatics Certificate, which means that each child must have been taught the appropriate hours of primary school to obtain the relevant Informatics Certificate or Language Certificate. Where is this concept in the bill? Nowhere. I now come to Chapter IV in the famous ‘other provisions’, Articles 33 to 58. I'm starting with Article 33. The suspension of the operation of thirty-seven academic departments resulting from the superiorization of the country's TEIs has been announced here. It follows that the same capital has several unnecessarily unresolved procedural arrangements. Now look at the oxymomile in this Article 33. We had the previous Minister who drugged the whole landscape of higher education by setting up universities by law, and now the new Minister is suspending their operation as well by law. Do any of you believe in evaluation? We are putting legislation in place in this article to remove ambiguities. It is known that in these thirty-seven new departments there are also some, such as the Department of Public Health Policy now belonging to the PADA, the University of West Attica, which already operate and have students. This particular section that I bring to you as an example is the universal heir shape of the former National School of Public Health, to which students have already joined and continues its educational function, which is not allowed...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u8	He's inside.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u9	I'll explain where we don't agree. So these students, who are studying in these departments, are not allowed to undergo any hostage on how to continue their studies or on what degree they will obtain at the end, TEI or HEI? In particular, we propose, at the end of the article, that the wording should be added: ‘In those parts of this article, registered students are not suspended. For the rest, the legal evaluation and certification procedure for their curriculum programmes should be respected.’ Article 50 is essentially legislation on the appointment of primary and secondary school teachers. Little detail is that this contest is already in the air. He's coming, but you don't tell us right away that he's coming for this reason. There was nowhere in the consultation. So our position on Article 50 is that we cannot see it isolated from the overall function of education. We agree that the IOTAP should recognise the academic equivalence and equivalence of diplomas of university institutions in the countries of the European Union and abroad. The way IATAP is organised, the timing of handling applications is another case, and obviously, the Agency needs to modernise and improve the response times to the demands of our graduates. That's your ministry's work. We also agree on the framework for recognition of professional rights. Indeed, a physicist of college graduate, with the terms and rules laid down by the homogenous associations, can practice his profession in our country. In the debate we asked you a few questions, some thoughts about how to formulate this legislation. Answers we haven't received. Maybe we'll get some today. So you remain locked up in the unscrupulous management of recruitment by the law of Mr. Gavroglou and are now trying to give handy solutions. But SYRIZA's policy on education is not improving, it is only overturned. Let me remind you, too, that you and we as opposition, as well as institutions of the educational community, had denounced the criteria of the SYRIZA recruitment law. But now, as a government, you are applying it. You are not opening up the debate on how, in a fair, transparent and pragmatic way, the recruitment of teachers can be carried out, and above all, this unacceptable framework, which will lead to a dead end, cannot be adopted by law. Needless to say, the mail of all colleagues has been overwhelmed by requests from people who want to participate in the tender you have published and for the reasons I have said, that there is a framework that is unacceptable, excluded from their participation in this procedure. I would like to sum up what was heard by the bodies in the famous committee called on how Article 50 is dealt with. They say that this article disconnects the license of a profession to graduate teachers from foreign education institutions, including private colleges operating in Greece as a branch of foreign HEI, from the recognition of the academic equivalence of graduates awarded by IOTAP. In other words, it indirectly abolishes Article 16 of the Greek Constitution, which provides that higher education is provided exclusively by institutions which are legal entities governed by public law with full self-government. In no case is it just a question of alignment with European legislation, as the Ministry of Education claims, but of a political choice, and that also explains the legislation for third countries that are outside the European Union. Graduates of colleges have acquired professional equivalence, but they do not in practice have recognition of the equivalence and equivalence of their qualifications by the IATP, which is the standard qualification for the appointment of primary and secondary education in the public sector. Therefore, since private college graduates do not have a recognised diploma from the Greek State, they are not entitled to be appointed in posts which require it to be paid. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Article 50 is an equal-level legislation that cancels higher education and degrades the qualifications of future teachers and teachers, as it creates two-speed teachers, with or without a recognised degree. This is, therefore, a regulation that is harmful to the Greek education system and society in general. Ladies and gentlemen, today that education is changing rapidly, the data changes, the educational process changes...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u10	Madam Colleague, I beg your pardon, but you've exhausted the time of dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u11	Good. Then let me finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u12	So you won't use your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u13	No, you don't have to. There are other colleagues who will complement. Well, in order to be able to complete, I would like to tell you, Minister, that there are today problems in our schools every day. School autonomy is about the degree of freedom of analytical and time schedules and about flexible and articulate curriculum programs. There are problems with the compensatory policies for special education and for refugees. Instead of discussing issues that are minor, it is a pity that the debate should be unfair to the essence of education itself and to deprive time from an in-depth debate on fundamental issues. It is up to you to make remedial moves for a substantial institutional dialogue on the serious problems of the direction of Greek education. As a movement of change we believe the national need is to raise the quality of public school, from kindergarten to university. Before closing my speech, I would like to tell you a minute about an important one - we think - amendment that we have tabled and which concerns children who are in high school in Mandra. They were given the opportunity to have a privileged admission to universities. What's happened? These children, in high school in Mandra, because their homes were destroyed, were forced to move to other areas. The law, therefore, while allowing those in Mandra schools to make use of this arrangement, because these children were forced to change school, being the residents of Mandra, cannot make use of this beneficial provision. We believe that, in any case, you cannot solve the problems with such legislation. But since it exists as a law, it is important for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u14	Please, close, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u15	Of course, Mr President. After ten years of unroasted landing in reality, with the redefinition of the country's capabilities, asymmetric deprivations of the citizens, who have just begun to heal their injuries, we do not think we have dawned on the land of the promise. Apart from fresh air, too much work is needed, and we, as opposition, will highlight the failures, the poorly legislated, the omissions, the mistakes and the drunkenness, but we will try through our role to move in the country's interests, to be consistent, cruel when needed, but above all fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make the following announcements to you. Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the Agia Coropio Municipal School. Also, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, fourteen students and students and three educational escorts from the Patriarchal Church School of Crete. Finally, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "Workery Democracy", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and two educational attendants from the 73nd Athens Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Delis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u17	According to the Government, today's bill is the preamble to a new more reactionary law - a framework for universities which, as he has told us, is, of course, prepared by the European Union and the OECD strategy, which is certainly implemented by all governments and is - and is now calling it - to directly and more effectively adapt higher education to the needs, economic, political and ideological of business groups at the expense of the large majority, but which aims to tie the universities closer to the chariot of the big businessmen and their investment choices, always depending on the profits they expect. This is the fundamental position of all urban parties for universities and their mission. However, the preparation of the new reactionary framework law for universities has begun to prepare since the summer with the abolition of academic asylum, that is to say, by attempting to impose the silencing of the cemetery on the highest institutions, so that two things can be applied without hindrance: and the penetration of business groups into universities and the business activity of the institutions with a direct negative impact on both the curriculum and the cost of study for children of the people's families. However, I think we would be unfair to the previous government of SYRIZA if we did not mention its own contribution to the promotion of this Euro-Union strategy for higher education, in particular with the scanning mergers of TEIs with universities, so as to clear the landscape and be ready for the new wave of restructuring, a new wave which the New Democracy naturally undertakes to carry out as part of all the so-called 'Single European Area of Higher Education'. Furthermore, it is well known and sometimes declared by all the parties in the European Union that their commitment to the implementation of European Union directives and, in this regard, to the common principles and guidelines of the European area of higher education, which has been and is firmly for all governments the canvass and compass of reactionary restructuring at universities. The main axis around which this bill moves is the well-known caramel of urban education policy, evaluation. This assessment is also the key work of the National Higher Education Authority, the NIAE, a so-called independent authority, which is set up in order - as we have said - to implement the European Union's policy on universities, so that they can be more effectively linked to major businesses. We must say, however, here a few words about these independent authorities which in recent years have started to grow like mushrooms. First of all, the nature and mission of these authorities is determined by the framework within which they operate. And this framework is not beyond the limits of the sovereign policy of the urban state, which automatically make all these independent authorities useless to legitimise and implement the sovereign policy and control mechanisms, but not from the point of view of the people's interests, but from the point of view of the interests of capital, such as: the National Higher Education Authority, up to now IPU, with a tool of this principle to be its assessment and task to promote anti-educational regulations at universities. It is not just, you know, that in the very highest administrative body of this authority, of the NEAFC, as in the institutions of evaluation of universities set up under the draft law, such as the Certification Board, the Committees on External Assessment and Certification, they participate with natural - please - in the presence of representatives of chambers and the market, namely business groups. This is, of course, another proof of who this assessment is finally serving. The main thing is the process itself and the criteria for this assessment. These are the criteria of the capitalist market. Listen to some of these criteria in the external evaluation, in which the situation is still at stake. I read from the bill in Article 10: "The general evaluation criteria include, in particular:..." - first - first, listen! "... orientation of the curriculum..." where of course the whole essence of university education is also found. And in order to avoid any doubt as to which direction it speaks, the text goes a little further: "The qualifications pursued and their demand from the labour market, the connection between teaching and research..." and, in the meantime, the research has been fully subjected to the requirements of the profitability of large companies. And that, of course, does not change at all with the arrangements of the EPPs that exist in this bill. Again to the end - obviously for incorporation - in the very order of criteria, lastly: 'The linking of study programmes and skills with the needs of the labour market'. Why don't you write, Minister, for the needs of businessmen? Why hide behind your finger? But we don't want to blame you. Somewhere to the last - last criteria, there's the student care department. All right, one will think, there's the students' needs when studying, even toward the end. Attention, however, is not at all a word, the most critical of all the children of poor people's families: the word 'free'. And this word is missing because the merchandise of this very lack of student care has already started from all previous governments, and you as a New Democracy are certainly not hiding at all, otherwise you are planning to trade it even more, to make it forbidden for even more of the cost of their studies. Here we think it is necessary to clarify why the system's auditors, both right-wing and left-wing, say that by linking the curriculum and the intended skills to the needs of the labour market - I say it exactly as the text says - they are dealing with, they say, the problem of unemployment. We do not have to say here that capitalism and unemployment are like the toenail of meat, nor do we refer to young people's bad wages today, to the working relationships that make their lives elastic or to the medieval working conditions in too many workplaces, especially young people. You know all this didn't fall out of the sky. You vote when together and when apart. And it goes a lot after all of this to be young supporters. As far as the link between education and the economy is concerned, it is certainly also objective. The question, however, is who each time benefits from this objective connection. And he, you know, can't be the one with the keys to the economy. And in capitalism you see these keys to the economy are in the hands of a handful of businessmen, they are not in the hands of the people. But there is also the root of any anti-education policy. So only when these keys to the economy go exclusively into the hands of the people, then will education be freed and carry out its social mission for the benefit of the many. The evaluation criteria for which we were discussing a little while ago reveal its objective, which is not to adapt first of all to the content of the studies, so also to the qualifications of the graduates and their skills, to what is requested at a certain time by large companies. The award, now, of universities to better adapt them to these criteria is certainly not a formal certification. The prize is their own funding from the state budget. So from now on, however, for any university, school or department, it is not even guaranteed that they have so far been sub-financing and have condemned them to marvel. So far - and this is being discussed - it is only 80% of this state sub-financing, again with the Ministry's criteria, while for the remaining 20% universities have to go in for good in the market game, to prove their ability to meet the requirements of this market if they want to get the remaining 20% of state sub-financing. Any university departments that are now not cooperative are not obeying these market jewels, i.e. those which do not meet the requirements of business groups, being exploited openly by financing them by the State itself, which is supposed to ensure that they operate properly. If they continue to insist on the social dimension of science for the good of many and do not mean to put mind, as BSE says, then there is the enclosure, since according to the bill they are led to the closure of those university departments that fail to assimilate quickly and creatively these market criteria and do not meet and fall short of the standards of capital. Somehow this will open up the "vetalia" of the multiclassification of university schools and departments depending on how all of them serve the market and the categories of degrees, which are already many, so that capitalists can choose from the many "shels" of the graduates who want for as long as they like them and of course with the smallest wages, since the competition that throws rights and wages is increasingly bored with these legislations. This is the notorious evaluation and its results, and perhaps it is also a characteristic picture of what it expects and the rest of the education, the primary and secondary, for which the implementation of this assessment is being discussed. On this evaluation comes SYRIZA and appears to disagree. However, if anyone notices it, it is procedural and not fundamental, because SYRIZA does not disagree either with the aim or with the aim of evaluating it, as it goes beyond the strategy of the European Union, which is also its own strategy, which says that universities must contribute to capitalist development and entrepreneurship, they must act as companies themselves and the evaluation is an appropriate tool for doing all this. But this is where SYRIZA changes. Not this bad, the punishing assessment brought by the New Democracy, but another reward, that is, less threatening, more friendly, but as dangerous. I will say a word about Article 15, because it is typical of all this business dimension that floods the universities. Article 15 refers to programming agreements. Reading this Article 15 states that it concerns the business plan of an enterprise and not a university school, operational costs, investment, staff of each category and so on. There's more in there. Could this anti-educational turf also be missing? We say no. What's that cherry? You all understand that. It is Article 50 for colleges, the provisions of Presidential Decree 38/2010 incorporating all European Union directives on the matching of college degrees within and outside Greece as equal to those of universities into Greek legislation. The New Democracy is now coming and with Article 50 it extends these arrangements to teachers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will only need one minute. Thank you. In this way, diplomas are degraded and even devalued even more, which will certainly cause a negative impact on their own studies, as it simply turns the degrees into another qualification among the many who have legislated, for example, by SYRIZA with Law 4589 last year and which are qualified in the educational market. He's buying them, that's nobody. It broadens the scope of privatization of university function and thus their conversion into businesses with a commodity of knowledge, just as they do all kinds of colleges and proves that commercialisation of diplomas goes hand in hand - by means of multi-classification, by putting youth into the'male' of capitalist competition for a job. You know what, though? New Democracy, the Change Movement, and SYRIZA are fighting for diplomas and colleges, and it goes a great deal, because their responsibilities in this matter are heavy. Wasn't it really the PASOK that with Presidential Decree 38/2010 pave the way for the recognition of colleges? Before becoming a government, was it not that all the institutions of the European Union strongly complained about the failure to implement Directive 89/48 on the recognition of colleges? Sixty-one - not two - were SYRIZA's government MPs in 2018 who questioned their government for delaying the recognition and equivalence of college qualifications with those of Greek universities because - he says - there was a social problem. Was it not by SYRIZA's Law 4589 last spring that was given a overwhelming blow to the value of the degree so that someone could work in education, a degree which was just one of the many qualifications that were required, while furthermore the teaching competence was seconded from it? So here we are, who have taken the road to New Democracy, which now comes and moves forward - a lot to further liberation and recognition of all kinds of private colleges - the annexes of foreign universities to Greece and abroad. Finally, it is a maximum hypocrisy, in our view, of parties such as the New Democracy, SYRIZA and all the others that drink water in the name of the European Union apart from the European Union and recognise these parties correctly - notwithstanding the supremacy of European Union law vis-à-vis Greeks, to come and represent now the wars of the European Union's directives. Our party's request, Minister, the request of thousands of teachers, the request of young people, which will be heard shortly and outside the House, is one, to withdraw Rule 50 now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Delis too. The reason is the special speaker from the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Education: A wide range, which once again we could read backwards, because usually for these areas we want to attempt at at least the last thirty years in Greece, we are starting backwards. We start at the top and we go to the roots - they say - of the mountain, because the first degree must become sections. Finally the child from his first steps must embrace and love school. Only then can we hope that these young cells will become the tomorrow's academic citizens who will help in a better society. Ladies and gentlemen, why do we want the research at universities? Someone's wondering. We just want it, to improve the quality of life, to help science, to benefit mankind. What can be the benefits for our country? First of all, she'll be famous all over the world. It will translate the knowledge and the research that will bring a great success and of course it can be linked to the labour market. Why are we afraid to say that universities should be linked to the labour market? There just has to be a pace, there must be a code of communication, because universities with the labour market are transporting containers. We start from primary and secondary school, which aims to give a field of knowledge, to lactate characters, to cultivate people with treatment, with principles, knowledge, with morality. And the purpose, of course, of high school is not the willingness to enter the university. Unfortunately, this is how high school is. We have done this with education and parade, where the Greek householder, partisan, family, is fighting, and he bleeds to pay the schools with large sums, just to introduce the child into higher education. And then what? The next day? A Corinthian degree, a degree without a counterattack. Why? For many reasons and many factors. Firstly, because the school that the child has achieved, with the system of the Greek examinations, was not of its choice. She wasn't the one she loved because of the system. Because the "responsibility", the university specialisation will come. The role of high school is different. So if we don't join the rings, we can't get results. What we are asking for as a Greek solution. I went in and I read a lot of university articles. Among these, I live in an article by Dimitris Kuretta. I happen to meet him personally from television shows at the University of Thessaly. There, then, the Thessaly University research team did a very good research on antioxidants, namely foods that have some substances that are harmful to cells, mitochondria, core, cell membranes and through this research, the benefits for society are over 50,000 euros. Because there are foods that this university group singled out. So here's a tangible example of whether research can help the market. At last, however, we say that the public university is being put on the table and that the universities themselves must be sick, they must go against some pressure and demand that the investigations do not stay in time, not stay in drawers, in public. Some businesses will, of course, take advantage of that. It is not bad, however, because new jobs are being created. The Greek taxpayer must know where his money goes, how much he pays and what the result is through these investigations. I would like, however, now to stand here, because there are reservations as Greek solution to the articles. Ladies and gentlemen, how can we finance 20% - 80%? Will it be qualitative, will it be quantitative? How exactly are you going to be? Not in many cases, but in most cases, but depending on the nature of the universities. And it is different for the Historical and Archaeological University to do research, for example the Aristotle University, differently the University of Ioannina Medicine, differently the Metsovio Polytechnics. So the nature of the investigation also plays a role. And then who determines her? How will the researchers teams be? That is why the idea would be a cross-party committee, outside party contagion and watertight. We must not produce a sterile education policy. Ethically, if not constitutionally, we do not have the right for the individual government to decide only on the future, the nursery, the incubator of the future, which is our children, the students. What do the evidence show today? Thirty-seven thousand Greek students abroad. In Spain, where its population is about thirty million, it is thirty - five thousand students. In Ireland, 12 thousand. In Portugal, in Iberian, which is a population equivalent to us, it is about ten thousand. So what do we see? We have great exports, let me have the word - they leave abroad to study the children - a system in which they are not satisfied, but also because we have the syndrome not to talk about private universities. Greece's bleeding into the currency. Let's go to other things, ladies and gentlemen. 49% of the people who now want the government to bring them back - but it is not the panacea of this whole system to get some money for a year and then not to come back - stayed abroad in countries of Central Europe and spent there. Only 19% of the Greeks who were unemployed say the statistics say they left there to look for work. What do we want from scientists, ladies and gentlemen? When a project is submitted for education, it must be made up of proposals of the heart and suggestions of reason. We want scientists, but not inappropriate organs, with acute critical thought. With a mind we're talking about. They can be judges and be good scientists. What to do with a scientist who has been robotized when it serves only the science that has been taught and practiced, but has no human values, has no sensitivities, does not have humanism, so that he can have a communication code with his fellowman. A doctor who is also human, is very good in his work. A policeman, same. So let's go around now. Research has been carried out by the University of Crete on air pollution, by the University of Northern Aegean for the toxics we have in the rivers of northern Greece. Medicine, too, of the University of Ioannina has conducted research groups and there have been research studies of the liver, of the hepatites, of the kidneys for the cancer that have contributed too much. First of all, it's an incubator for young students. However, the question I was saying here is coming before the funding is being made. Are there any regional universities wrong? It is not wrong for a university to be linked to a local society - economy, as long as there is a proper code. For example - universities are saying it - in Serres, where I am from, while they have a farm garden that has once produced many products, now with the GATT Treaty we have these problems with intangible imports, because there is no policy, if you like, in the primary sector. So instead of having a rural school or a school dealing with agrifood, instead there is a school of gymnasts and TEI and after graduation from the university establishment, the children work as waiters. Wrong target, here's the thing. Corporate Development Framework Symbol. This bill came months ago from New Democracy and does not invest in the issue of agri-foodstuffs, which the corporate framework development symbol there will give money with a view to 2027. Why, then, do we not invest in agri-food research, where we have these quality characteristics, due to weather and soil conditions? Should we not exploit this world-wide commercially as Greece? Let's go to tourism a little. Some studies were carried out by some universities on how to serve the visiting man in Greece. But they did. It was not made public in order to process the tour operators, to process the hotel facilities. We must, ladies and gentlemen, produce a result of all this innovation. Should we go to the Greek Research Centre? Do you know that the PPE is funded by freelance universityers? They've got 7% of them. It gives 7% of the university's free profession, from its net revenues, to the Hellenic Research Centre. So let's not say that a Priori is only financed by the public purse. There are other sources, as long as research is properly exploited in the right direction. "h index" is the indicator that speaks of university quality. The Greek universities don't bomb them. They have enough discrimination, they are at least fifty best universities in the world, through many studies. In fact, they have been distinguished within seventy - eight countries. But they do not have the guarantees and they do not have the right foundations. Let's go a little to the administrative staff, what the Anglo-Saxons say administration. There's no administrative training. Today, when one wants to deal with bureaucratic issues in universities, administrative staff do not have the necessary training for university staff if we are talking about a modern university, integrated into the demands of times, and when the administrations have often created a status against academics. And how many lecturers do not expect today to develop new bright minds, where they face too many obstacles and remain lecturers. It's been at the "wait" for years, when these people would be new researchers, they would give their lights, and immediately the university would get another glamorous one. You know, regardless of ideological advancement and belief of everyone, we're talking about public good, education. We all agree, without discrimination. There should not be the patrons and patrons, those who are going to attend education. It's embarrassing, it's oxymomile to listen to someone - what a popular proverb says "I live in the city and dance my village" - to talk about public education, left to beliefs, but his children send it to a private college, or to a private school or to a private university. If I look at the curriculum of many, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, one is inconsistent with the other. At least some will recognize that in a private university his child will have better benefits, as the Greek parent is struggling at whatever ideological cruising he is, to do the best for his child. Self-government could help very much if it had initiatives for a university development and for research, because it is connected, outlines, gloss the problems of a region. I am not saying that it would determine how self-government would be recruited, but that it would be a charitable one, to be a link in the chain of regional development, if we wanted to talk about self-government and autonomy at universities as they should and not about corporateism. Why not, gentlemen of the Ministry of Education, cooperate with research teams from different universities? The robotic "DIMMOCRITY" has done miracles. Because today there is a smart port committee, smart ports today are based on the snow show where they have created free zones in Rotterdam, where they assemble too many products. We have done nothing here for the port of Piraeus and for the other ports of the country, to be able to go to assembly, to gain both time and money. When we talk about education, then, there must be a stable door, a national strategy. There are many articles on which we have reservations. For example, in Article 1, why should this new principle be based in Athens? Can't he stand somewhere else because of digital technology? Here's how a regional decentralisation comes. New Democracy at Costa Karamanlis once said that the Ministry of Rural Development should be based in its natural location in Larissa. Where's that left? On the bells. Isn't that his physical location? NATIONALE must have a clear orientation, not only are they guys in the initials "Manolios changed, he puts his clothes differently". On substance, how independent is it? We said we had reservations about how 80% -20% would be fixed. We have, of course, the Disabled People's Confederation is Article 4(2) of the Constitution, Article 21(6) of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. A country if it is civilized, if it has culture, livelo, level, must show a sensitivity to people with motor problems. History says that many of them have developed other skills and can help very much in what we call university education. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We could say too much, but watch out for the future, watch out for the nursery. What children are going to say "no pomegranates" must tell us and feel it, be better for the next generation, but have human values and principles. Now, because you're getting caught by a precursor in Article 41 and you're eradicating religion and citizenship, that I can't understand. Can't we have landmarks, identity, orientation? Is it okay for religion and citizenship to be recorded? They'll say why you're a Greek, why are you a Christian Orthodox? After all, shouldn't children have a orientation? Don't forget that - don't go too far back, just two hundred years, we'll celebrate all year long - it was faith that united the captains and not the language. Because faith gives man a living, a power and a orientation. When you're in a beautiful forest, you have to follow the path. No matter how beautiful it is, you have to go to the clearing, because there's a risk. Watch the kids, watch the education. We shall, of course, be placed in a detailed form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Booba, too. I call on the special speaker of Mera25, Mr. Gregoriadis, to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today for the ratification of the government's draft law on education entitled 'National Higher Education Authority, Special Accounts for Higher Education Institutions, Research and Technology Bodies and other provisions'. This is, in fact, the first basic piece of legislation, which also covers the area of education, and which the Government of New Democracy, unfortunately, does not surprise us at all, but at the same time is particularly concerned, and I do not want to tell you that we are saddened with the fact that this is a bill that is moving within the framework and the logic of an enterprise or, if you prefer, an operational model. Unfortunately, the government neither escapes nor insults from its pervasive principles, the principles of commercialisation, the so-called excellence, the customer relations, the interdependent interests and brings to plenary a bill completely classic and a little toxic, which undermines the independence, autonomy and self-interest of university institutions, and at the same time aims at standardising education and subjecting it to market rules, thereby giving the right to education to the economic and social stronger than the Greeks. The Government of New Democracy is closely and precisely following the main direction of the European Union strategy for the establishment of the single higher education area, which, however, has been strongly questioned internationally, as its applied models have failed and have not only failed, but have dissolved where the higher education system has been implemented in other countries of Europe, such as the United Kingdom, Great Britain. So, in faithfully following the European Union's directives and guidelines, we believe that the ground for the gradual withdrawal of the state funding of university institutions and for their delivery ultimately to the completely uncontrolled market forces, with disastrous results for public, free and all higher education and obviously undermines and threatens the autonomy and self-interest of these universities. A key instrument of this policy, as shown by Articles 1 to 19, will be the establishment of a new over-concentration and a powerful authority, the so-called National Higher Education Authority, which is coming to replace the Independent Quality Assurance Authority in higher education. In our view, in the sense of Mera25, this change is, in fact, a renaissance that covers the real objective of the new principle, since, with the argument of the alleged upgrading, conditions and alibi are created to remove from their positions all the unsatisfactory in the present Government and thus to undermine the independence of this new principle from the beginning of its operation, a principle with more strengthened responsibilities, such as the strategic planning, financing and evaluation of the Higher Education Institutions. And while - with Article 2 - a small paradox - the evaluation and quality certification of the operation of the Higher Education Institutions falls within the competence of this new authority, under Article 12(8) - o of the miracle! - provision is made that quality certification may also be carried out by an accredited higher education certification body from abroad, defined by a decision of the Evaluation and Certification Council. This latter, coupled with the direct relationship that the government will have with the selection of the chairmen of the three-member committees chosen by the members of the Board of Governors, makes us think and have reasonable suspicion that the National Higher Education Authority will have no relationship with transparency and democratic procedures. The Higher Council with its powers makes the intervention of the higher management bodies of the HEIs, such as the Senate, for example, completely marginal, as it is the highest council that will be recommended - rather than the congresses or other bodies of the universities - to the Ministry of Establishment, Consolidation, Elimination or rename of entire HEIs or their individual schools. In accordance with Article 16, 80% of the regular grant will be allocated on the basis of criteria relating to the total number of students registered, the estimated annual cost of study per student, the duration of the curriculum and the size and geographical spread of the university institution, while the remaining 20% will be allocated on the basis of indicative indicators of quality and achievement, to which each HEI chooses to be assessed, such as the arithmetic relationship between the graduates and the incoming students, the number of members of the scientific staff who achieve funding from European funds or the number of foreign students. It is clear that there is a government's intention to ultimately reduce state funding, which, incidentally, is also a constitutional requirement, to grant our education, and the cost of our universities' operation, to be passed on to private bodies and, finally, to their own students, who will now be treated as customers. The implementation of this policy will be achieved through an evaluation which, in our view, has a purely punishable character, since 80% of funding will depend on objective criteria and the remaining 20% of funding from some doubtful performance criteria. 20%, therefore, of funding through evaluation theoretically provides incentives for the improvement of HEIs in targets that - supposedly - will be chosen themselves by strengthening their autonomy. However, as these performance criteria show, these criteria are already fully defined by the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs and do not in fact leave any margin of autonomy to our higher education institutions. I think it is worth mentioning, on this point, a small example of the customer practice already in place by the government and, in our view, the marginalisation of the Greek public university. This example is nothing more than the recent sponsorship of the Greek state of two million euros that our Prime Minister at the Boston Theological School, in which I am also learning, by the way, that students pay an annual tuition of 20,000 euros. At the same time, where these two million euros are given as a donation to the Theological School, which, from its students, takes EUR 15,000 a year from each of them, Greek higher education institutions grow, do not have sufficient resources for research, educational or administrative staff, do not have adequate buildings, do not have adequate equipment, student benefits are completely inadequate and so on. Here, we believe, it is particularly important to stress that the impact of evaluation on social sciences, humanities and basic research on positive sciences will be overwhelming, since measurable sizes in these sciences cannot assess the quality of theoretical knowledge. In addition, knowledge and teaching process are provided and the character of the university is changed from knowledge, learning, research and exchange of ideas to a model of entrepreneurial education, which eventually turns the student into a customer and the university teacher to an employee. With Article 33, it is suspended indefinitely and without any consultation with the academic community - why, Madam Secretary and Minister, without consultation with the academic community? - the operation of the thirty-seven new departments and eleven universities foreseen by SYRIZA, the previous government, which would have operated since 2021 and which will now be assessed in unclear, in our view, by this new all-powered authority to decide whether or not these will eventually work. By amending Article 54(5) of Law 4589/2019, according to which diplomas awarded by foreign education institutions are accepted for appointment and recruitment of teachers, not only if they have recognition of academic equivalence and equivalence by the interdisciplinary organisation for the recognition of academic qualifications and information that has been in force so far, but even if they have only a professional qualification recognition decision. This implies that private college diplomas, which under Law 4635/2019 have a professional equivalent to the diplomas of Greek higher education institutions, are considered to be a formal qualification for permanent appointment and recruitment in public education. In addition, the following question is raised: We thus recognise qualifications which are not recognised in the State of origin of these diplomas. For example, in the United Kingdom, in order to be able to teach in public schools, one must have Qualified Teacher Status, something like pedagogical competence, that is, after some practical exercise. While Greece can only apply for appointment to the AACC with its degree, which it acquired from a university in the United Kingdom. Finally, it is about relaxing the criteria for selecting teachers in public schools with what this implies. In practice, also, this abolishes Article 16 of the Constitution from the back door, since beyond the symbolic burden, the term 'university', all the practical substance of the case of exclusive public and state universities and the prohibition of private universities is about whether a person with a college degree can be appointed to the public, and how much more so can it be appointed in public as an educator, as is now possible with this bill. Article 58 also stipulates the exclusion for a period of three whole years from appointments and recruitment for those teachers who are appointed and do not undertake a service or resignation within one year of their publication of the FEK. Teachers, in other words, taking part in the process of permanent recruitment, but not taking up duties for any reason or giving up in their first year of appointment, for the next three years and not only for the current year, will, as it would be reasonable, be excluded from both permanent appointments of alternates to primary and secondary education. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We wonder how the Ministry will deal with teachers who cannot cover with their income a house on an island when the money they ask for in the rental of this house is more than their own wage. Why does the government have this punishing attitude toward teachers, who supported - and beware of this, please remember - and support the public school throughout the ten-year period of crisis with personal self-determination and sacrifices? In the desertification brought about by the harsh measures of the memorials, the assistant teachers fought to prevent any child from staying all over Greece without a teacher or teacher. Now, instead of thanking and rewarding these teachers for their enormous educational and social offer, our state brings a system of permanent appointments that puts their working future directly at risk. Why does the AACC not accept the objections of educational specialists and specialist assistants, Minister, following the mistakes made in the evaluation and modulation of substitutes and permanent in special education, as second postgraduate and pre-services were not able to be modulated by a system inconvenience? Why can't an application be filed electronically from the AACC page as usual? Honestly, answer us why it's not given? It's unfair. Why are substitutes - and this is huge injustice I will say now - teachers of the Academy and of the School of Preschools, who have been working for twelve years until now in our public schools, after they have been successful in the competitions of the AACC and have been written in the lists of alternates validated by the AACC now do not have the right to participate in the notice of general education, as well as in the proclamation of special education and go out of training, on the grounds that they do not have the standard qualifications because they have not followed the optional - I note - a programme for the equalisation of their diplomas with the educational departments? This is the case despite the fact that these teachers have training skills which they are constantly and continuously recognised for all the twelve years that they teach as substitutes and despite the fact that when they obtained their degrees, they were guaranteed and could on the basis of them they were normally recruited. Why don't all this be taken into account? I come to Article 34 for the removal of religion and citizenship from evidence of dismissal and certificates of secondary education. We believe that the government has been led - not to say - dragged - into this article without wanting to do so because it had to fulfil the European checks. For this reason, Article 56 provides the hierarchy, where the three Hierarchs' feast on January 30, ceases to be included in school holidays and is converted into a day of compulsory categorisation within the teaching institutions, since it is required as a day of religious celebrations. So we understand now why a few days ago in an interview the Archbishop Jr. said - I will read the words of the Archbishop - attributes: “What had to be done was what had to be done. Everything else is funny and pretext. The holiday is for lazy people." That's the description. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as the bill we are debating today, apart from fragmentary and totally inadequate, is also in some articles of the manifestly unconstitutional and also punishable for our teachers at all levels of education, as it leads to mathematics in the sub-funding of our HEIs, but also to the marginalisation of their higher administrative bodies and ultimately to the degradation of the diplomas they provide, as we have absolutely legitimate suspicions that the National Authority of Higher Education will have no relationship with transparency and democratic procedures and - finally - this draft law leads to a clear relaxation of the criteria for selecting education in the public schools with what I have said, this means, Mera25 is against at the outset. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the following letter to the House: "To the honourable President of Parliament, Mr Konstantinos Tsouula, from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group: Mr President, on the basis of Rule 72 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, we Members who sign this request are calling for a roll-call vote on Articles 16, 33, 50 of the draft law: "National Authority of Higher Education, Special Accounts of Higher Education Institutions, Research and Technology and other provisions" of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs. There are the necessary signatures. In consultation with the President of Parliament, Mr Tasoula, it will be announced in due course when the roll-call vote will be about. Now, by experience you know - at least the older ones - that they must be towards the end, if not at the end. So, a request, because you have written sixty colleagues - the same request is to the parliamentary representatives and to the ministers - to keep the time, because otherwise we will be going after midnight. Keep it and this afternoon when we have an image, we will say the time of the vote. Now, the Minister will talk later. The Undersecretary will speak first of all after the four alternating colleagues, that is, Mr Contoyoros from New Democracy, Mrs Christidou from SYRIZA, Mr Katrinis from the Change Movement and Mrs Sakorafa from Mera25. Then Mr. Dygalakis will be inserted. Mr. Contogiorg has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, entitled "National Authority of Higher Education, Special Accounts for Higher Education Research Institutions, Research and Technology and other provisions, is currently being introduced to the Greek Parliament for discussion today. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Ministry of Education's political leadership and congratulate the impeccable parliamentary procedure that has been followed up to now and which is an example of good legislation. The proposed bill, after completing a consultation cycle from 4-12-2019 to 18-12-2019, was submitted to the Committee on Educational Affairs, where it was thoroughly examined by its members with the participation of the institutions involved. It consists of five chapters and sixty-four articles which contain important and necessary regulations, amendments and abolitions of provisions in order to deal with chronic pathogens and omissions, which act as a brake on the functioning, reliability and quality of the education of our universities. Chapter I includes the establishment and organisation of the National Higher Education Authority and innovative funding arrangements for HEIs. Replaces the PPP, the Quality Assurance and Certification Authority by the National Higher Education Authority, by redefining its organisation and functioning framework. The establishment of the new principle was deemed necessary in order to contribute to the implementation of the national strategy for higher education, the impartial evaluation and certification of the quality of the functioning of our Higher Education Institutions, the creation of safety controls of good functioning through administrative autonomy, the upgrading and strengthening of the responsibilities of the new authority, the integration of the best international practices, the establishment of new collective administrative bodies with increased independence guarantees, the extension and certification of postgraduate and doctoral programmes, to include those which had been interrupted, the definition of the evaluation criteria, some of which are access to people with disabilities, the internationalisation strategy, the absorption of graduates in the labour market, the development of e-learning programmes and many but. At the same time, it is attempting to revise the financing framework for HEIs in part. 80% of the regular GNI grant is allocated on the basis of the existing criteria. The remaining 20% will be allocated on the basis of quality and achievement indicators. Chapter II regulates the Special Accounts for Research Funding and Technology Bodies of the Research and Technological Institutes of the IITs. Research is liberated from the ideological strangles of the past and bureaucracy is reduced, while accountability and transparency are increased. They increase from 5% to 10% of the ERCB's cash assets to grant grants. It is laid down as a basic condition for the taking up and pursuit of the expenditure concerned or for not exceeding the authorised limit of the total budget of the project. It is also allowed to implement financial obligations irrespective of the amount, which will not exceed the limits of the approved budget and not the limits by the category of expenditure, as was the case to date and which has caused a great deal of bureaucratic problems. The process of monitoring the implementation and implementation of expenditure will be carried out on the basis of the rules laid down by a decision of the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs and not the Minister for Finance, as was the case until now. Chapter III provides for the establishment for the first time in our country of the State Certificate of Informatics. The State Certificate of Informatics will be obtained by exams and will certify the knowledge of computer manipulation in the use of internet services, text processing and computer sheets. His knowledge can be extended to other digital objects by decision of the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs. In Chapter IV, the following arrangements are summarised in the ‘other provisions’: the training function of thirty-seven new sections of HSI, which were established ‘in the knee’ by the previous government, without any evaluation of the relevant institutions and the IPO, as provided for by Law 4485/2017. The effective administration of the International University of Greece is ensured by a flexible and functional administrative structure. It is easy to attract foreign students to learn Greek. It also ensures that trainees are moved to the second opportunity schools who live away from the school's headquarters. Examinations by group of schools are abolished. Multitude teachers are part of the specific transfer categories, with a view to being transferred from region to region as well as to the boundaries of the same region. In addition, it shall ensure the smooth functioning of school units through exclusion for three years from recruitment and appointment of teachers appointed to primary and secondary schools, who either do not undertake a service or undertake and then resign within a year. This is mainly seen in mountainous and remote regions. Chapter E refers to transitional and repealed provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion is not a text of regulation and of opportunityal settlements. It is a legal text of high standards that fully reflects the ideology of the current government in both the quality of secondary education and the unbundling functioning of the independent authorities. It introduces innovations in higher education and research funding and greatly exploits the comparative advantages of our country to human and scientific resources. Within the framework of the Constitution, and given the ideological perception of the previous SYRIZA government about the non-revision of Article 16, for non-state universities, the present government is trying to achieve the best. The great goal of becoming our country's international education centre by establishing non-state universities with multiplier effects on the economy and society, once again lost. It is certain that the fair judge of all people in democracy, the people and history will judge everyone, especially those who, through their actions and their outdated and condemned world ideas, are holding the country close to their precarious choices. Finally, and after that, I am voting in principle and as a whole on the draft law. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u24	Well done, Mr. Condulator! You spoke exactly seven minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory of the House, twenty-six students and students and two educational escorts from the Greek School of Agia Paraskevi. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] My colleague from SYRIZA, Rallia Christidou, is called in Stepma. Here, Mrs. Christidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come today to discuss a draft law, which presents the vision of the current government for the Greek society, for the Greek society of the future, as education and, above all, university education, prepares the next generations of professionals and the next generations of academic citizens. The bill we are discussing today brings a great, but not a good change in this process. It undermines the educational system of the country, which since post-Civilisation promised equality, it promised justice to access tertiary education, regardless of its social or economic status, regardless of origin and sex. To date children of lesser income classes with only qualifications in their personal effort have been educated socially and academicly through the public university. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, is completely changing that logic. It was a constant pursuit of the current government and, unfortunately, it was the introduction of class features in education and its conversion from a public and free asset, but it was conquered by hard work, in a good that is paid unharmed. Along with the pan-Hellenic exams, Greek society trusted ASA as an imprecise mechanism in the process of selecting staff for the public. With this bill, it is in doubt. In fact, Article 50 amends Law 4589/2019 and the AACC accepts the qualifications of foreign students - including foreign students working with foreign universities - by means of the method of recognition of equal professional rights for the permanent appointment of teachers at primary, secondary and school level, as this does not require academic recognition of their diplomas through IATA. This regulation is more advanced than the European Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, which the Government of New Democracy hypocritically invokes. It is a blow to the graduates of the Greek universities, permanent and substitute teachers. Most of all, however, it is a blow to the quality of Greek education, since graduates of colleges, which the government introduces, are clearly lacking in knowledge and qualifications in relation to graduates of public universities. And yet, the Ministry of so-called excellence pretends to ignore that. He pretends to ignore what everyone who has an elementary relationship with educational reality knows, namely that graduates of colleges do not have on the basis of educational competence to teach pupils in our schools. The only reason why this regulation is being promoted is neither the European directives nor the ideological intrusions of those who proudly state that this bill is a implementation of the policies which have been promised in the run-up to the election. The real reason is the complexion of the ruling party with the congressmen. This is your only real ideological starting point and we denounce it from the Step of the House, fully aware of the seriousness of our complaint. And, indeed, it is such that your prerogative is to serve them, so that you have already incorporated the colleges and the notice of the "run". The methods of recognition of colleges are also affected by regional universities, but also by the Greek region. This is because once college degrees are also involved in the ADP, their departments will increase. This will be at the expense of the sections of state universities located in the region and above all in more remote places. The increased requirements of the State University for a degree typically similar to that of a college, along with distance, make sense to push students who will be able to choose an easy solution, leading regional universities to marble, with what this implies for regional development in the provincial cities where university schools and departments are located. And while private colleges are being upgraded before the state and law, at the same time, an unprecedented attack on Greek public universities has been launched in order to limit their displacement and abduction. Thus, the PPP is renamed, changed president and senior council to serve with the appropriate dates to be consulted in accordance with what the new government wants, thus mocking up any sense of dignity and independence of one otherwise independent authority, which no government had previously thought of doing. At the same time, the operation of thirty-seven new departments of SYRIZA, which had been established in the government of SYRIZA, on a proposal from the universities themselves, is suspended indefinitely and legally. The universities themselves had proposed the creation of the new departments and had sole responsibility for their operation. Importantly, some universities had already begun the procedures for staffing the new departments so that new students could be welcomed in September 2020. This arrangement shows that the government does not even count on the self-employed of universities. Why are these departments suspended while recognizing colleges? Apparently to exploit those students who would otherwise study for free in one of the departments. The reasoning of the cost and burden of the state fund cannot be taken seriously, unless we consider subsidisation to be an educational priority by the Greek State with EUR 2 million per annum of the Theological School in the United States, so yes, for the Greek universities no more money. Ladies and gentlemen - and I am closing down with this, Mr President - what is being attempted by this bill does not have a precedent. You are, in practice, undermining in the most discriminatory, arbitrary, unsatisfactory way the social provision of public and free education and trying to privatise it in breach of Article 16 of the Constitution, which once again proves the contempt of Mr Mitsotakis and his staff towards the institutions of the country. The political will of the current government is that they will not study the most powerful minds, but the most powerful wallets. This is how the New Democracy Government perceives excellence: excellence with purchased degrees. So, in this pseudo - injuring neo-liberalism, we and society are vertically opposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u26	We are moving on with Mr Michael Katrin from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the New Democracy Government is concerned from implementing a national development strategy, other than being so far away from drawing up a national education and research policy. It seems that the way in which he perceives both these areas is to conduct a fragmentary policy, without consistency, without design and above all without vision. While education is a major issue for the country and I would say first priority for our progress in the 21st century and in the era of the fourth industrial revolution, government policy is unfortunately far below the occasion. And I say this because the government is trying to hide behind the criticism of the foreign policy of the SYRIZA, which really dissolved everything in the field of education, lowering the bar, so that she could appear as a ransomer. Because in fact the only positive contribution of this draft law, with which we could not, of course, disagree at the outset, is the partial reintroduction of the spirit of the provisions of Law 4009, which the PASOK had brought in 2011. However, this reinstatement is not enough, nor are the various unconnected provisions which have been well or poorly annexed to the bill to form a coherent framework for a modern policy on education and research. In addition to its structural shortcomings, however, this bill gives the impression that there may be a secret agenda behind what is stated in his articles. Such a case is the provision for not adding or subtracting 20% of funding from university institutions that do not meet the criteria for evaluation. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, instead of having a logic of rewarding best practices and results and further strengthening institutions that have separate performances, you choose a retraining logic. Of course, the idea and initiative of evaluating and guaranteeing quality in higher education is certainly not yours. For the first time, it has actually been implemented - for the first time I have been introduced - with Mr. 4009, who fought a rabies at that time, mainly by the SYRIZA party. So you can't claim a paternity that doesn't belong to you in the evaluation piece. This, of course, does not turn you into pioneers of an educational reform, with your contribution limited to secondary improvements and a communication, you will allow me to say, trying to show that you are bringing something new through just the name, but also minor changes, from IPTO to EAW. Instead of supporting an autonomous and truly liberalised public university, with the dismantling of research funds from public accounting, it seems to be serving you and serving you and defending the logic of a centrally controlled university. Otherwise, only when you avoid laying rules on market immunity. This is also a debate on postgraduate programmes, in which the situation at some point has to be regulated. Postgraduate programmes now lead to a place in the labour market, but only for all those who are able to afford it. Without evaluation, without costing, even allowing people with lower incomes to have this access to postgraduate programmes, therefore even a chance on the labour market. Sadly, I fear, with the uncertainty and delay - and I hope that the new principle will be respected - that it will be done with the blessings of the Ministry of Education. Ladies and gentlemen, when ideas are dogmatic, then the phenomenon, along with the dry matter, is also burning greens. And such a case is the "suspension", as you baptize it, of the establishment of the new university departments. I call on you to accept the regulation and amendment proposed by our rapporteur, the Kerididis, which puts the question in real terms, but in terms of the operation and evaluation of the departments and not the individual minister to be able to establish or suspend in due course and for reasons of political feasibility. What does "suspension" mean? Are you in favour, ultimately, or against establishing the departments and on what criteria? Because if you are in favour, you should explain what "suspension" means. If you are against, you should explain why you are talking about "suspension" rather than "suspension". And, of course, each case is different and you should explain about each case separately. Our position as a Change Movement - and I will agree with it - is that strong educational towns per region are needed. Of course, this reflects a philosophy of unity of university campus and, of course, seeks to protect the field of universities from the phenomenon of establishing departments for political favor in some area. On the other hand, however, it is a modern requirement to open up universities and link them to the development challenges of each region, particularly when, in this direction, the global cultural capital and brand name of a region can be exploited. Such a special case, Minister, is the Prefecture of Ilias, which is the ideal choice for the establishment of a Department of Physical Education and Sport Science at the place where the Olympic Games were born, the most recognizable event in the world. Only for anyone who has a development vision and sees it away can this connection be understood. For this reason, it is not understood that the choice to suspend, is supposed to be, the operation of the TEFA section at the Tower and the reference to the bells, especially when the Senate of the University of Patras has advocated the establishment and operation of the department. Of course, we in Elias are used to refer decisions of less or more importance to the future. And I say this because, today, the Minister for Infrastructure has called on the regional and regional authorities in the region to discuss and tell them what they will finally do with the Patras to Tower road, this modern bridge of Arta, which we grieve every day, but we do not have any specific commitment from the government on the timetable and the precise model of operation. Ladies and gentlemen, the distortions of the laws of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL, it is clear that they should also change some of them. However, the implementation of a national strategy for education should also be linked to a corresponding national development strategy, which must be carried out in terms of justice and social cohesion, combined in terms of regional aid, in terms of the use of the country's new research potential and the creation of conditions for the return of the human resources it has chosen to go to other destinations. And in all of this, despite the good intentions, which I am sure the head of the Ministry of Education has, I fear that this bill cannot give the appropriate answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that from the top Western theories we attend our meeting of twenty-five students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd General High School of St. Dimitrios. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And the first quarter of the rotation with my colleague, Sophia Sakova, from Mera25 closes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the most dangerous phenomenon of diversion in the functioning of the democratic culture is the manner in which they attempt to be successful in the constitution and bypassing the constitutional requirements. Such manipulations achieve a major blow to the very core of the democratic civilization. In this sense, the first bill of the Ministry of Education of the present government, unfortunately, has a heavy negative sign. It highlights the negative intentions and contradictions of government policy in the sensitive and national critical area of education. The conservative party has all over the last few years bombarded Greek society by attacking the public character of higher education, in conjunction with a methodical communication deterioration of the image and value of public education institutions. You have zealously tried to achieve the revision of Article 16, which guarantees the public character of higher education. You didn't make it. And you are now coming to implement the project of degrading public education with the corresponding reinforcement of education entrepreneurs, whose interests you obviously consider to be your priority. And in this direction is Article 50 of the bill as a direct circumvention of Article 16 of the Constitution. With the unacceptable provision of this article, the AACC will accept the qualifications of foreign students and private colleges operating in Greece, without the need for their recognition by the IATAP. And all of this, while you know that many colleges do not offer reliable studies and have low-quality programs, which last much less than the corresponding public HEIs. You also know that these colleges have never been evaluated for their operation, for their teaching, teachers, writings and so on. And yet, you give your graduates professional rights to many similar to the graduates of the HEIs. Another steep shape of your neo-right policy: on the one hand the rhetorical emergence of the so-called excellence and the famous evaluation of public education, and on the other hand, the uncontrolled performance of corresponding professional rights on the payrolls of all kinds of private colleges. In order not to consider all this to be our prejudices and unjust judgments, I shall mention, for example, the relative position of the EPC conference. ‘The professional equilibrium of college graduates with higher education graduates further downgrades public education, exacerbates the problem of university graduate unemployment and trades a social asset, effectively removing Article 16 of the Constitution’. In fact, from over-zealous and legislative care, there is a phenomenon that we who are not recognized by the State of origin of the diploma are also recognized. In the United Kingdom, for example, for one to be able to teach in a public school, one must gain through an additional practice of teaching competence. In Greece, however, he will only be able to apply for appointments to the AACC with his degree, which the country that awarded it considers to be inadequate to undertake a training project. All of this - let me quote this - is happening in the country where teachers have been successful in the competitions of the AACC, justified by judicial decisions, wait for 11 years and are not, of course, appointed by any of their own faults, on the sole responsibility of the State itself, which continues to prevent them in an unacceptable manner. And the current government, while not being able to deny the obvious injustice, resorts to legalistic, unfounded evasions in order not to do what is self-evident, to act, that is, legal acts for the appointment of the successful, even after twelve years. In any event, the purpose of the deterioration of higher education also goes beyond this draft law. The President of the NEAFC shall not, within or outside the importing Member State, make any open and transparent procedure. It is simply defined by a proposal from the Ministerial Council by the Special Permanent Committee on Institutions and Transparency of Parliament, namely by the government majority. It is therefore only enough to legalise it by the Government to give it extensive powers, since it is also foreseen that it will also be President of the Supreme Council and the Evaluation Council. Evidently, then, this is about deposing the famous state of service. New so-called independent national authorities, with expanded responsibilities and anachronistic way of appointing their leadership under full government dependence. And in a next step, there is a policy of subsidizing university institutions, although you also know that the respective state's obligation is also a constitutional requirement. And while you know that the Memorandum of Understanding has already imposed a sub-financing scheme and you know at the same time that the government obligation would be to reverse this situation, what are you doing? You're doing the opposite. The already insignificant and definitely incomplete state funding is now laid down in Article 16 that it will be attributed in full only through one, at least unclear, evaluation scheme, "on the basis of indicators of quality and achievement", as stated in the bill. Unfortunately, these indicators also provide for parameters which may have an entirely anti-educational function. I give an example of the criterion of the proportion of incoming students and graduates. Where this criterion, gentlemen of the Government, was applied, there was de facto pressure on teachers to promote students to higher than their actual performance. The result, that is, the deterioration of the academic process and its quality. A corresponding negative function may have other than the criteria mentioned. I wonder how much more hypocrisy or powerful enthusiasm is needed to establish as a funding criterion for HEIs the course of professional absorption of graduates, in a country where the monuments have degraded the economic and social reality and imposed a well-established system of increased unemployment. For all these reasons, the real objective is evident. The even greater reduction in the funding of higher education will in turn lead to the deterioration of the academic function of the Greek universities. [[At this point the closing bell of the speaking time of the H' Vice-President of the Parliament is ringing.]] It is confirmed in the clearest way that the governmental rhetoric of universities in Western standards is an obsession for popular consumption. You are opposed to the concept of public education. You want an elite system, which will depend on citizens' financial capacity. However, in no case can ideas be an alibi to the real historical responsibility of such legislation. In conclusion, Mr President, I should like to say that it is truly appalling that through the most distorting concept of the functioning of parliamentaryism, through the functioning of party discipline or even the doctrine of 'I am voting without reading', this draft law will be voted out of hand, let me say. Why should colleagues vote in favour of it be aware of the fact that the future of public education in Greece is in fact being sedated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Sacorafa. As I said before, the speech will now be made for nine minutes by the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Digalakis, and then by the four Members in the order. It's Mr. Loverdos, Mr. Kotsos, Mr. Taradilis and Mr. Lippis. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will concentrate mainly on the two main lines of the bill, which concern higher education, and in particular the EBRD and the special accounts. Our education and higher education need a long-term policy. He needs a strategic planning. This thing is preventing our universities from getting out of the way. And this thing has not been observed in previous years. Let me remind you a little of what has happened especially recently since the previous political leadership of the Ministry of Education in the reform of the Charter of Higher Education. A hundred and sixty new sections were founded. These include the thirty-seven whose function is suspended by this bill. Within these sections we have previously heard that there were call decisions. I would remind you, however, that SYRIZA did not comply with the provisions of its own bill, of Law 4485, which provided that for renames, abolitions, mergings of departments, universities, schools, etc. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has been consulted before. None of these mergers were consulted by the independent authority. And since the rapporteur of the Officerial Vice-President said earlier that there were congress decisions, I will mention here that the Senate of the University of Ioannina at its meeting on 26 November mentions the Translation and Interpretation Division established by Law 4559 and seated in Igoumenitsa, that he considers that this department cannot continue its operation, because the Translation and Interpretation Department did not exist in the strategic planning of the University of Ioannina and was not approved by the Senate. It's subservient. This is a department located outside the headquarters of the School of Social Sciences in Ioannina. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Vassilis Digalakis, presents the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We had cases in which departments of former TEIs with a very good job prospects, such as, for example, the Department of Audio and Image Technicians, whose graduates found a job at very high rates, were abolished and, in their place, Departments of Ethnics were established. Unprecedented things! All over the world there are classes of musical studies. Musicology and, in particular, Ethnicology are a small part of the entire department's curriculum. We don't make parts of objects on which the graduates are future unemployed. We had a hundred and sixty parts, as I mentioned earlier, of which one is not the most ‘hot’ today in the economy. We live at the peak of the fourth industrial revolution and parts of data science are founded around the world. Not even a section of data science was founded with these hundred and sixty new divisions that the previous government did. He needs a long-term policy. I say it and repeat it. And the way to do this is by respecting institutions and procedures. We upgrade the independent authority, the former PPP, and we create the NSAE, with the aim of taking this role, beyond the evaluation, in addition to the evaluation, to assume the role of strategic planning. How do we do it? We are strengthening independence. Previously, the President of the PPP was appointed by decision of the Minister after consulting the Committee. Now it is a decision of the committee following a recommendation from the Ministerial Council. It is responsible for strategic planning. What's the strategic planning? First of all, how the map of primary education is to be formulated, what subjects the country needs to develop in the coming years. I will give an example to the United States, where with the strong anti-smoking campaign that had taken place in previous years, the proportion of smokers was significantly reduced. Result: Because they provide for fewer pulmonaries in the coming years, they have already reduced the number of psychologists specialising in medicine, just taking into account what labour market needs will be. Secondly, restructuring of the academic map. This cannot be done by decision of Ministers. We had an example, which we have taken for a walk in the last fifteen years and carried it to three different universities. A minister cannot come and undo what the previous minister did. That is why the 30-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven suspension is also in place. It's horizontal, it's based on principles and procedures. Instead of the Minister deciding, the new authority will deliver an opinion on recommendations from the departments. Included - I know - many sections from all counties and Chania. No one is excluded, it's horizontal. Multiannual programming agreements: Other part of the strategic planning. The university needs to know how to make its strategic planning, how to develop, how to plan in the coming years. They came in, they were in Law 4009, they never applied. Why? We should be worried about that. Because the principle did not have the proper support to be able to do so. Breakdown of the annual percentage of funding: 80% of funding based on objective criteria, 20% of funding based on evaluation. And add - and close in relation to NRAA - that it has increased and innovative responsibilities in the field of evaluation. The programmes will be certified before the start of the operation, and this will be done for both postgraduate and foreignlanguages, which will come to a subsequent bill. It is considered whether the universities meet the quality requirements for the first, second and third cycle courses. Research funds: Research by definition is something that cannot be planned. Research is investigating the new and the result is that you can't put it in molds like the rest of the government. That is why there are specific research funds at universities, with the aim of giving the necessary flexibility, so that our researchers, teachers at universities, research centres, operate on terms with which their respective colleagues are working abroad. However, Law 4485 and the integration of the EBRD into public accounting has brought too many problems in the functioning of the special accounts. I would mention a few figures from a comparison made, which I have made, which compares the management cost of a special university research fund with the administrative cost of a local government agency and, in particular, of a hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants. Commitment commitment: It is an act that the scientific person must do before making any expenditure of EUR 42 000 on the Special Account, EUR 1,600 on the Local Government Agency. And that's the extreme example. Budgets - reform: The special account of the university was EUR 10,000 and EUR 20,000 at the Local Government Agency. These are the figures for the different categories of transactions. It was therefore imperative to proceed with a reduction in bureaucracy and management costs in the specific accounts, but without making the slightest reduction in transparency and accountability. How did we do that? We have done so on the main philosophy that expenditure, budgets and reform of them in the special accounts will be effected on account. I'm not going to go into any details of this. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I just want to say that all it takes to make a researcher or a scientific person an expense in a research programme is to have money in the project budget and not to have money in a certain category of expenditure, because this is dynamic, research is too dynamic, and it is changing and we need to give the scientists responsible and the researchers the necessary flexibility. I will close - and I will not go far beyond time - in response to an issue that has been raised. I am particularly pleased that the provisions of the special accounts have been accepted by the university and the research community very positively, as we have seen in the House's Committee on Educational Affairs. It has been heard that a solution would alternatively be to establish legal persons under private law, as foreseen by Law 4009. I will say here, yes, the NCIs are in our programming, but not in the management of research resources, which come from either state resources or from the European Union. What for? Because if we were to put the management of research resources, of state, of public, public or of the European Union, then the PPPs would also join the general government bodies and lose any flexibility. So management of research funds in special accounts, management of own resources, exploitation of property, exploitation of knowledge, innovation in legal persons under private law. This first bill gives the mark of our policy. We move on to a university which is more self-sufficient, a university based on strategic planning and a university based on evaluation and merit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u32	Mr John-Michael Loverdes has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today I'm very happy about the bill we're discussing. At the same time, I'm a little sad for one thing. During the debate today in plenary, more than 50 Members of Parliament were present. At the moment we are talking, there are twenty-seven, if I measured them properly, together with the President and the Secretary-General responsible, which means that most will not even attend the debate. They will come at night - because, as I am hearing, SYRIZA asked for a roll-call vote - to vote, depending on the line of their party, without knowing what they are voting on. Is that right? To be realistic. This is a deterioration in Parliament. Will you tell me, is this the first time? No, of course, it is years ago, but I, as a journalist, have burned it down, and now as a parliamentarian, I will continue to burn it down, because I think it must be done, because neither the country nor the political system of this Parliament is honoured. The second reason why I am pleased, however, is that, for the first time, we are discussing fundamental issues in this Chamber, issues of a strong ideological nature, while at the same time being realistic: the preservation of our education and education system, which has been in bad shape for a long time. For the first time, I am delighted that many of the initiatives, which I had taken as a journalist for many years, have been implemented by the current Government of New Democracy, such as the abolition of the immunity of lawlessness at universities, which has become at least a few months ago and I hope it will be done in practice in the near future. I am very pleased that we are discussing two issues on which I personally have fought very hard to make a reality, the linking up of evaluation with the funding of universities and the association of the university, our education and the labour market, which had not been done, despite the fact that it had been said many times and despite the efforts that had been made in the past and by Mrs Marietta Giannakou and by Anna Diamantopoulou as Ministers of Education, it had not been possible. Will you tell me what's going on with this bill? Not necessarily. One step is taken, but other steps will be taken. The most important thing is that there is a clear will for the first time by the ruling party and by the entire ruling party in this direction. I must say that the reaction to a large extent on the Left - and in particular on the SYRIZA - I was expecting it because we are divided by ideological differences, although we are not divided by personal differences. I'm glad to be here in the Chamber right now is a very good friend of mine from the old days, Nikos Philis, and people I respect and appreciate. I did not know Mrs Jufi, and now I know her, and I see that she is a serious lady, who has her arguments, but with which you will allow me to disagree. And I disagree about the following reasons: there on the left you get one, I would not say 'allergies', but you have a problem with evaluation. You don't like evaluation, and you want what's done in public to stay that way, even if it's been over for years. Don't change anything in the public and the public stay bureaucratic, embarrassing, you can't deal with it. I understand that, because that's your mindset. And here, then, you are left behind in relation to society. I will not go into a survey showing that the majority of the Greek people want university evaluation. I will remain in the fact that society itself is asking for it. New Democracy has not done so now, because New Democracy is leading society. At this stage I can say that society itself has imposed on the New Democracy - of course in line with its ideology - to make the major areas and changes in the liberal direction, which, in my opinion, is the only one that can save our country from the current deadlock in which it is found. Evaluation. The evaluation, ladies and gentlemen, of the Left and SYRIZA, is carried out by students themselves, by students themselves. Have you realised that universities are being evaluated first of all by the students themselves when they run tests? You realised that to get into Medicine you need to get almost perfect, "20", while in the Department of National Ombudsman, mentioned earlier by the Undersecretary of Education, you can only go "3", writing, that is, just your name on the glue, because no one asks, does not want the student and does not want the market. There are too many economic schools. Why a particular department in ASEAN - I do not remember what my friend Christos Tarantilis made it - has a very high score and other financial departments have a very low score in the introductory examinations, in the pan-Hellenic? Because the market itself, where the students are, they don't want it. Students define with their attitude which universities are well and who are not, which universities are linked to the labour market and which are not. They understand that for themselves. As much as you refuse the evaluation, our children do it with the tests.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u34	...collery.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u35	In college, yes. And I come to you, Mrs Anagnostopoulou, because I have listened very carefully to you in the Committee on Culture, You have surprised me. You said, if I'm not mistaken, that we should not link the universities to the labour market, but the market to the universities. That's what you said. For the moment I thought you were scaring us, but, because you are a very serious lady and I fully respect you, I assumed that you believe that and that is worse in my opinion. I'd rather scare us. It is not possible to do this, and I wonder how you do not understand it there on the Left. I wonder how you are still insisting on obsolete concepts, which have nothing to do with reality. Will the "APPLE" be taken by someone who ended the TEI of National Ombudsman, mentioned earlier by Mr. Digalakis, or will he take someone who is an expert on Technology and Informatics? It is common sense, which I fear is lost in such matters, which is a major ideological and real one, but important. I, you know, want SYRIZA to be a strong opposition. I want a strong opposition. I really want to penetrate society and the political system of opposition, because without a strong Civic Anti-Civilisation, the government is also being arrogant and we have seen it too many times in the past. We don't want that. We want you to be essential in your counter-population, and unfortunately I am afraid that with the attitude you take in this bill you do not prove it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Since I do not want to abuse time any more, I would like to thank, Mr President, for the tolerance of fifteen seconds, to thank you very much, friends and colleagues. I will see you in the vote again tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, too. Mr Georgios Kotsos has the floor from New Democracy. I have to say the parties, because there are people who don't listen, but they see us. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the feeling that the main question that this bill comes to answer is whether education, education in our country has scope for improvement and, above all, how to integrate it into the development map, through the use of all the possibilities provided by it. The answer is obvious that education and the educational process in Greece can be a structural educational pillar for the new generation, while at the same time turning Greece into an educational centre of the Mediterranean, through the use of ancient Greek culture and enlightenment. But how are we going to achieve this? How should our educational policy work? First of all, it should have a pedagogical vision, it should be the result of a long-term educational pan-national effort, avoid semi-metres, ostensibly collapsing and complacent, and through cross-party consensus, with long-term and long-term policies and strategies that will reject the temporary, fragile, party and micro-political speech. Moreover, there are data that are ruthless for our society, such as the migration of our young people, the famous 'brain drain', but also the arrival of immigrants in our country, which create new data and have a chain of consequences for our society. According to one study by IOBE, the reduction of pupils by 2035 will be about 30%, mainly among primary schoolchildren. It is therefore a challenge facing education and national education policy how we respond to this process. It is a challenge and an opportunity for significant improvements in the quality of the education provided, as the scope for change is widened, by creating a long-term national strategy with specific objectives and orientations. It is true, however, that the first signs of our Government's reform policy have been perceived by society, by Greek women and Greeks. The educational system, and in particular higher education, must follow our pace, and that is why we are redefining the academic map, with the aim, of course, always being consistent in its development. The first step is the development of the PPP to the new National Higher Education Authority, once again symbolizing a new change of attitude and implementing policies with design, modernising structures and strengthening extroversion, speech and competitiveness - yes, competitiveness - of higher education institutions. The new principle will be the central pillar of HEIs and will contribute to their substantial upgrading, making them autonomous, self-sufficient, through their ongoing evaluation. Comparative assessments are introduced and it is true that evaluation is a key ideological difference between us and the Left, as the Left considers the evaluation to be a punishment, while we consider it to be a reward for good practice, good tactics. Indeed, because there have been objections in committee that evaluation will work in favour of the large, organised, structured universities, I would like to give you a specific example that breaks down this myth. It is the former Wood and Furniture Design and Technology TEI of Karditsa, which has now been integrated with the Forestry Department - something with which I at least disagree - that a small section within a small city has shown marvelous results, with extroversion, with innovation, interconnecting with the labour market, with international recognition - takes experts from around the world almost in terms of wood quality - and, most importantly, with professional rehabilitation of its graduates. Of course, the change in funding of HEIs on the basis of objective criteria is also an important step. In order to support effectively the EITs in the difficult and important work they are doing, there is provision for the promotion of centres of excellence, depending on the quality of the educational environment they have and the level of learning they offer. Financing rules are being established that strengthen the autonomy of the HEIs and have been imposed and, as the previous speaker has said, it is really necessary to link funding, even by 20%, which is a first, cowardly but first step, which has to do with the actual offer of these departments, with their evaluation, with the objective data that concerns them. In the era of technology and within the social state, the State Informatics Certificate, which is obtained after exams, is first established in order to obtain state certification for the use of computers and to use it as a supply for their future. Subsequently, since the issue of fertility is a major issue for the Greek society, I believe that the provision of transferring priority to multitude families is moving in the right direction. So, on the one hand, we give the message of the support of the multitude family, but at the same time we also enable the multitude of teachers to respond effectively to the many needs they have in any case, because of the many members, their family. In fact, I would suggest that in the event of a school unit losing its organicity, the old age of teachers, including multitudes, should apply, so as not to create such inequalities within the school unit. I also believe that a corresponding provision should be made, at least for the level of secondments, for third families. The challenge for our Greece, which comes out of the sufferings of the crisis, is a new education of the essence, through an educational system that is likely to unravel some, but through the radical changes, the educational process will be transformed by a knowledge journey, a source of self-awareness, culture and humanity. Finally, the new educational process will enable our Greece to evolve into a spiritual lighthouse in the wider region, attracting students from all over the world. Such education, ladies and gentlemen, can act as an awakening lever, as a source of enlightenment and an insurance link to avoid in the future any crisis that has either an economic or a social or cultural sign. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of the bill, because I think that is how you will offer home, you will offer Greece, we will offer the new generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u38	We are moving with our colleague from New Democracy, Mr Christos Taradilis. Here, Professor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, New Democracy and personally the Prime Minister of the country Kyriakos Mitsotakis have made an election commitment that the first priority of the new era of governance will be to form a new culture of progress in the main sectors of the country, such as education, the economy, national defence, etc. Key elements of this culture of progress will be strategic planning, evaluation and flexibility, three concepts which, while in all the states of the Western world are indeed the roots of society's progress at higher levels, unfortunately in our country these three very important concepts cause some negative reflexes in part of political staff. The first consequence of these negative reflexes is the conclusion of these concepts, such as, for example, that evaluation is a punishing process, and it is known that for the Government of New Democracy the assessment is purely an improvement. The second consequence of these negative reflexes is the absence of the concepts of strategic planning of evaluation and flexibility from the ground both of higher education and of all the main sectors of the country, as we saw in the previous government period. So what have we seen in the recent past in the field of higher education? We have seen the occasional establishment or merger of university departments due to political purposes, without any preparation and without even asking the competent independent authority. We have seen the absence of strategic planning for responding to new educational needs arising in various sectors of the economy and technology. It was particularly characteristic of the previous point that, despite the fact that since the previous political leadership of the Ministry of Education, some sixty university departments were established, not one of them healed the subject of the Data Science, as well as Artificial Intelligence, an object that is the basis of the fourth industrial revolution. What else did we see? We have seen a catastrophic bureaucracy in how university research is financed. What I am referring to now is just some phenomena that we have seen in the previous period, some phenomena that our role is to change immediately, because speed is something very important. The bill, therefore, of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs launches a new era in higher education, on the basis of this new culture of progress defined by the concepts "strategic planning", "assessment" and "flexibility". The regulations of the bill concern the evaluation and quality assurance of both the curriculum and the HEIs, the development of a long and coherent national strategy for higher education, the reduction of bureaucracy in the way specific research funds are operated, the well-known PPE, which are a central tool for financing research carried out at higher education institutions. In particular and very briefly: The strategic planning is implemented through the establishment of a new authority, the National Authority for Higher Education, with members of the prestige of the university community, both internal and external. This authority is responsible, among other things, for proposing to the Minister of Education the programme of the national strategy for higher education, namely, to which areas we will give priority and therefore, which programmes will be developed, and which national cooperation we will develop. It also proposes the establishment, merger, division, abolition of universities, schools, departments following rational analysis and objective academic criteria, and also the allocation of the annual state grant budget to HEIs by 80% on the basis of objective criteria - such as the estimated cost of studies per student, the total number of students, the size, and the geographical spread of an institution - and by 20% on the basis of the achievement of specific objectives set by the HEIs themselves, so that they can be assessed. I would like to say at this point that, in fact, this model of university funding is indeed innovative for our country. However, it is well known that it is a well-known and successful model, followed by countries with educational systems with huge university traditions such as Great Britain, Austria and not just. Furthermore, the NISA will, among other things, assess the IHS and whether they fulfil the conditions for being able to organise undergraduate, postgraduate and PhD programmes - and here I stress - regardless of whether these curriculum programmes are already established or planned to be established. Why am I saying that? Because in the very recent past, we have seen a series, as I mentioned, of many university programmes, which were set up or merged without any academic criterion, because of purely political purposes. Finally, flexibility in the PPE is to eliminate the bureaucratic tangles of the existing framework for the management of research funds, which forced us to be scientifically responsible - I remember it very strongly - to reform all academic teachers and Greek researchers constantly in the budgets as scientific managers. What he is doing is also a radical simplification of the budgetary procedures concerning the analysis and implementation of expenditure. Speaking in very simple terms, it is the word 'flexibility' to abolish counterproductive bureaucratic processes in the PPE Groups, which have essentially led to the reduction of the effectiveness and creativity of our research groups and, obviously, to the loss of jobs of very high-trained scientific staff. To close, without wanting to waste time, I would like to stress that the struggle of the Government of New Democracy to recover the important public university, the important role it had, continues. I have said and said again that we owe this to our students, to their parents, to society itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u40	Thank you too, Mr Taradili. We close the second quarter with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Athanasio Ljupi. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, higher education in Greece has undergone many changes, depending on the political agenda of the government concerned. However, we must all realise that education must be a sign of convergence of all the political forces. The basic guidelines of the education system are crucial to remain unaffected by the political changes and any changes that can be made only in the light of what the educational process really needs. Today's bill is no longer a theoretical account for higher education. It recommends the fulfilment of the commitments of the Government and Prime Minister in relation to the needs of the Greek universities. The first step was taken by amending the provisions on university asylum and restoring legality and regularity within university spaces. Today we are legislating on changing attitudes at the heart of the functioning of higher education institutions. Those who have studied in Greek universities know that these have excellent teachers, with a high level of academic education and training. However, this reality is not recognised abroad, because Greek universities do not take a good place in the assessments made at global level. Indicatively, according to the classification of "THE" for 2019, the Economic University of Athens is located in the range of positions "601-800", a little better than the university of Baghdad warfare. The bill under discussion lays the foundations for substantially upgraded Greek universities and for them to gain their proper place. The National Higher Education Authority ensures that the national strategy for higher education is systematically drawn up and that universities are in a continuous process of assessing their functioning. The High Council, which will operate within the new national authority, is responsible for collecting the necessary statistics and recommends to the Minister of Education the distribution of 20% of the UI grants. The Evaluation and Certification Board shall undertake the evaluation of universities and their certification that they fulfil the criteria for organising first, second and third cycle curricula. In fact, the Council also certifies the new curriculum, before they enter into operation, a procedure which is very necessary to ensure the level of the new curriculum before they are implemented. Also important are the evaluation of HEIs by themes, in the areas of internationalisation, gender equality, access to the labour market, environmental footprint. In all these issues, most Greek universities have great scope for improvement and the process of recording problems will help to improve the quality of the HEIs. In fact, in the Committee responsible for external evaluation and certification, a student representative will also be involved, making students part of this important process. The most preposterous change introduced by the bill is that in relation to how university funding is financed. To date, the responsibility for the allocation of funding lies exclusively with the Minister of Education. The new regulations define an objective and fair system. 80% of the grant will come from a combination of objective criteria, such as the number of students, the annual cost of study, the duration of the programmes, the size of the institution. However, 20% of funding for the first time will result from the indicators of quality and achievement, which are specific to the quality of the education process, the research activity of the university and its internationalisation. Thus, universities have a strong incentive to strengthen the areas in which they are lagging behind in order to obtain a positive assessment and to achieve as high a grant as possible. Another positive step is taken with centres of excellence. In particular, they will be characterized as centres of excellence by universities or parts thereof which are appreciably distinguished from the rest and which are qualitatively distinct in important areas. One of the most important changes in today's bill is that of the PPE, the special research funds. To date, the system of the EPPs has been extremely difficult, to an extent disappointing. On the contrary, research as a living process also requires flexibility in order to produce the expected results. The new regulations unleash the EPPs from the intolerable bureaucratic suffering, since the budget of each project is now self-evident in relation to the rest of the projects. At the same time, the budget of each EUPM shall be revised every month, subject to compliance with the overall budget. Finally, individual expenditure shall be considered legal when each project is carried out within the budget and not in any case within the limits of each category of expenditure. An innovation in today's bill is the establishment for the first time of the State Certificate of Informatics, since knowledge of computer usage is considered to be a minimum qualification for every professional employment. The other arrangements in the bill are once again the government's practical support for multitude families. Multitude teachers will be able to transfer to priority, both within the same region and from region to region. In conclusion, I would say that the Greek universities will strengthen their extroversion and have an international character with special programmes, but also with the strengthening of research, which will not for the first time be framed by the daring bureaucratic formalities. Modern Greek universities finally acquire the facilities to innovate and research in all sectors and not just form areas of higher education, but also places of production and promotion and education for the young citizens of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u42	We will continue with our colleagues, Maria Kefala, whom I call for in Step, Mr. Konstantinos Markos, Mr. Christoforos Vernardakis, Mr. Marios Katsis and Mr. Socrates Famelos. The speech of the President of the Greek Solution Mr Velopoulos may be needed in the intervening period. Mrs. Head, here, you have the floor. Mrs. Head, I guess I'm saying the tone well, or I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u43	You're right, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, higher education is the culmination of the educational chain that starts from our infancy age and gradually leads us to gain skills, knowledge, skills, skills, supplies and cultivation. It's a key component of our education. It reflects our image as units and as a whole, as a state. It comes essentially to complete a educational research cycle and lead young scientists to the labour market in Greece and abroad, in a reality with intensely competitive traits, in a reality that the graduates of our universities will be found in the same professional track of battle with peers from every corner of the earth. It is this reality of the 21st century that places the cubit high for every source of education, whether we are talking about the part of a remote microtechnological institute or the entire schools and university institutions, even in research centres. The challenge is clear. Our university institutions must operate with extroversion, autonomously and administratively independently, with their eyes on the labour market, able to monitor the developments required by the fourth industrial revolution and digital transformation. To this challenge, the New Democracy Government responds with the bill we are debating today, a bill that corrects and, above all, complements the institutional framework, and fully harmonises it with the European environment. The National Higher Education Authority is established, a modern, functional and effective independent authority with enhanced responsibilities, in place of the limited and existing Quality Assurance and Certification Authority in Higher Education and clear objectives, on the one hand, the development of a national strategy for higher education and, on the other, the evaluation, certification and quality assurance, both study and HEI programmes. Another important innovation of the present is the allocation of the annual GNI grant budget, 80% on the basis of objective criteria and 20% on the basis of evaluation. It is time to mobilise our HEIs creatively, to improve their own goals in terms of autonomy, quality of education, research activity, extroversion actions. Redeems the sancification of moderate that avoided evaluation by considering toxic. In the face of them, we are also qualified for evaluation through this excellence. The excellence, which has been so frustrated by the SYRIZA government, is our honour. We're pushing the investigation. We are putting an end to the loss of research resources. The release of the special accounts for research funds is under way. The bureaucracy and the tangles of the existing framework are reduced and more flexibility is achieved in the functioning of research funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u44	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Paulakis, every time I speak, he objects. Ladies and gentlemen, both in the debate on this bill in committee and today in plenary, all its aspects have been sufficiently developed and analysed, the objective and the map that will lead our universities to provide high-level education and programmes to students, at a level corresponding to the anxiety of our own young people and their families for the future of their children and the money they spend, both for their introduction into universities and for their studies. Therefore, I do not intend to go into details of the articles. I'm only standing in Article 33. I am referring to the suspension of training courses for university departments, the suspension of the commencement of training of thirty-seven new departments established by the previous government with Law 4559/18, Law 4589/19 and Law 4610/19. Within these thirty-seven departments there are also three sections of the University of Ioannina: the Department of Engineering of the Polytechnic School in Ioannina, the Department of Food and Food Sciences of the School of Agriculture in Arta and the Department of Translation and Interpretation of the School of Social Sciences in Igoumenitsa. Whilst Ioannina MEP and graduated from the University of Ioannina, I would point out this Step is the correctness of the substance of this article. These sections were set up, for electoral reasons, by the previous government, without prior planning and adequate documentation, without any specific academic criteria, without prior prioritising the necessary feasibility and viability studies, without coherent planning, without even the prior opinion of the Independent Quality Assurance and Certification Authority in Higher Education, while the law also provided for the contribution of this authority to such decisions, sometimes with Parliamentary amendments at the last minute, thus underestimating our foundations and capabilities of our educational system. Naturally, these new departments are having problems with infrastructure and staff, without being able to ensure their uninterrupted and well-functioning to the benefit of future students and the academic community. For these sections, the evaluation procedure has never been followed. The previous government has operated - in this matter too - micro-politically and opportunely. Here we are to say things by their name and sound truths no matter how good they are. We cannot mock either my fellow citizens, the Yanniots, or the Greek people. These departments, which were to operate for the first time in the coming years, will be reviewed so that they can be institutionalised and meet academic criteria and are supported by the necessary studies with the assistance of the competent, newly created independent authority. The university must not be a shop for anyone or a planetary triumph to set it up wherever and whenever it suits us. There are no inviolable university schools established without proper conditions, without the quality of education being ensured. It is not just a question of sound and effective management of the state's financial resources, but primarily of responsibility and debt to young people and young people who expect access to quality public universities with an impact. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law makes it clear once again that the government and the Prime Minister himself, Mr Mitsotakis, intend to take the country forward. It is clear in every direction that our priority is education and our intention to improve the Greek universities, with a view to the future and new generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u46	Me too, Mrs. Head. The Member, Mr George Kaminas, is calling for a short-day absence abroad for 24 and 25 January 2020. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u47	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We are going with Mr. Constantine Markos, MP of SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, almost all political programmes have a common slogan: freedom and democracy. The supporters of the free market, for example, claim to be opposed to any social and legal restriction on the freedom of the way one can manage his wealth. Supporters of the welfare state claim that, through the taxation of wealth, citizens are given a roof that cannot obtain or access to free education, increasing their freedom. At the stage of the parliamentary debate, the questions we have to ask as politicians are what specific freedoms are valuable to people and what is legitimate, therefore democratic, their distribution. If, instead of this question, the distortion of issues is being reassigned, confrontation is being transformed into a field of humiliation, to a populist propaganda. The New Democracy has made sure that public dialogue, within and outside the parliamentary process, is diminished at this time. As long as we would like to take part, in substance, in order to make our positions clear, we are obliged to restore your lies - I mean, your lies -, the distortion of truth and various plausible vague vaguenesses, such as, for example, you say with urgency that we did not want the four and a half thousand permanent appointments in special education, while you know that we have programmed them, integrated them into the budget and your loss and delay did not enter into 2019. But let us come - with all honesty and without wanting to insult anyone - to see the lies and I am not saying that you are not even inquiring half the truth. I'm lying, Minister. That's a serious lie first: we've heard a lot of things in general. You claim to be importing for the first time an evaluation to universities, hiding that evaluations and criteria already existed. In fact, you are posing the yield of 20% for each institution, strengthening competitiveness, instead of cooperation, and connecting it to new, rewarding and economic criteria, with which we categorically disagree. These specific criteria shall be set in terms of mathematical formism. They give you an impression that everything can be quantified. This is how the experienced scientists and philosophers of the 19th century wanted. In this century you are also turning to us about religious matters. Knowledge, however, is not always measurable, it is not always conceived, not as a physical phenomenon. A part of it is free, unthinkable and unthinkable. It promotes science and innovation and moves ideas that take us forward. Lie second: At last, you find the courage to restore that, when you blamed the previous leadership and Mr. Gavroglou for the files you found in the Ministry, it was simply legitimate appointment checks and not for party subjectivity. You seem to be, at least, very decent politically. Now Article 50 - you have terminated it - amends the procedure concerning the classification procedure for candidates to fill teachers' seats. I read a word - a word from Parliament's Scientific Service: 'Modifies'. Tell me what changes, if you understand. The possibility for college graduates to be assigned to education without any certification and without any recognition of high academic qualifications? I would stress the 'Highness'. I'm coming to the third lie. The European directive you are referring to - and do not try in your speech, Minister, again to cover it - gives the possibility of recognition of qualifications by a Member State of the European Union under the same conditions and conditions as another Member State. In other words, the Union's law allows us to lay down conditions such as those of the IATAP. What are you doing? You allow it to open up the worst "magic education" to make money and "production" teachers. Is that in Europe? Can someone here in Greece open up a similar institution and go to French school? Oh, no. Why can't he? Because they have preconditions. You are reading the wrong thing - that is, you are lying - the European directive. It is a letter from the Commission, which means a debate on the content, and indeed on a few specific issues, and not a reference and a fine, Minister. Don't repeat it. It's an example of what you're getting drunk at. The title ‘to distinguish high academic qualifications of staff’ is replaced by the words ‘to clarify qualifications’. The "High" is leaving. You are adorable and excellent. You claimed that you were motivated by our rule, Minister. If you missed these laws, I'd believe it. We presented you to the committee responsible for FEC in 1283 with the list of qualifications in which the holders of college degrees are nowhere to be included without the recognition of equivalence. How do you say we did it? And it could not, since these tables were published on SYRIZA. We are the ones who have put the IATAP as a precondition. It is an abrogated Memorandum of Understanding of 2012, which you are now bringing back. And with it you confirm our fears that the amendment of Article 16 of the Constitution, you only care about the diabetic conditionality of privileges. Colleagues of KINAL, you're in favour of private universities. Why, then, do you not consent to entering the window where the government is now trying? Let us be clear. And that is to society, where some parents will be trapped, and to youth, where some young people will find a way out: When SYRIZA comes back to government - and you can be sure that it will come back again - these will be abolished and will not be the case. Now, with regard to the removal of thirty-seven sections, with a top example - out of thirty-seven - the law of Patras. Really, Minister, why don't you join the reassessment, the one you put for the thirty-seven, and the Patras Law School? Why don't you join her? In this process you have contrasted with all the schools and democracies. You've made a forehead. I do not know if it is a good start for a Minister of Education to be confronted with the entire university community. We'll be here and see how much you respect their opinion. I am now personally at a time stage where I can make some subtractions about your ministry. At first I think if we simply differ from the performance of the same content in the concept of freedom and democracy. Then I think you're just in favour of some sacred, the result of some political fundamentalism. I am now convinced that neither is true. Just be rude and behave where the wind blows the limited interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u49	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u50	I'm done. Minister, the undocumented North Aegean Regional Commissioner, who is on the New Democracy, called on the 15-member students' councils to talk to them about immigration, that is, his poisonous racist views. Tell me this: As head of school, do you know that? Are you interfered? Does he have the right to shout and even have to say that students should go to the region to teach them? You must answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u51	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u52	I shall conclude, Mr President. I don't want to abuse time. We have tabled an amendment concerning the Social Labour Department. It is for some part of the Patras TEIs, which was unable - and logically - to join the university because there were no two directions. Now that it's done, I'm asking whether or not you're accepting it. I've informed you in good time. Finally, the majority colleague said about the'majority dictatorship'. You're right. You impose us a dictatorship of moderation: without degrees, executives with fake degrees, executives with fake awards and zero assessment in terms of their merits.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Marcus, I don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u54	You are a government of moderate dictatorship. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u55	Well, first of all, in consultation with the President of Parliament, as far as the procedure is concerned, I have a pleasant news to tell you. The roll-call vote will take place on Thursday, after parliamentary scrutiny has taken place and before debate on the draft law on election law begins. Tonight, of course, the list of speakers will be exhausted. So let's not "open your garlic" and start instead of seven or ten minutes. Take advantage of it and finish it in a good time. Mr Christoforos Vernardakis, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we have on our hands is the definition of the degradation of public education and a disastrous idea for the university institutions in the country. I would particularly like to focus on its three main points, which are governed by extreme social and class bias and outline a broader plan for education and, more generally, the Greek society. First, the establishment of a new administrative authority, the National Higher Education Authority. The implementation of the strategic objective of neoliberals continues to be established independent administrative authorities, which are entrusted centrally with issues of public policy planning and typical tasks of government material outside legislative, parliamentary and political control. The new authority does not evaluate curricula and academic processes. That would be reasonable and, in many ways, acceptable. The new authority undertakes to design and control hard core public policies, such as public education and universities, funding from the national budget, planning and operation of departments, criteria for establishing or abolishing, linking to the productive economy. We do not, however, only have the known idea of entrusting public policy tasks to hybrids that do not belong to the executive, nor to legislative or, of course, to judicial authority. We have something even more agarbo, the reinstatement of the unspeakable memory of the law-makers of the Diamantopoulou, those structures, which have never been able to overcome in political legitimacy within the academic community the elected Prefectures and the Prefectures. Today these dead councils are resurrected through the new principle, which aims to violate academic self-sufficiency and to impose on the university and research community policies to dismantle the public education system. Secondly, the introduction of the new method of financing universities - 80% -20% - through the evaluation process. I oppose the fact that the government does not guarantee any level of general university funding. What total amount of funding will be expressed in this 80%? How does the government respond to the fact that we had a rapid underfunding of universities by 2015, and despite the fact that efforts have been made in the coming years, yet is it a common place that universities are underfunded, even in their main operational needs? So what funding do you intend to implement this policy of 80% - 20%? I am also opposed to the fact that unfortunately, Minister, you appear to be unaware of the financial data of the state budget. I asked you the same question from the committees and you answered me instead, that the 2020 budget is supposed to increase 110 million to the Ministry of Education, ignoring that, apart from being tragically small, this is about the wage growth of teachers at all levels and not about strengthening the operational needs of nursery schools, schools and universities. You also ignore the fact that you have a reduction in the Public Investment Programme by 55 million and that you have a reduction in the transfer costs of 15 million, which also judge the operational level of education. I cannot, however, overlook the fact that around this story of funding you are setting up a game of university deception. What does it mean to link evaluation to funding, when budget funding is annual, but the evaluation cycles are done every four years? The result will be clear: Marxism, underfunding, closing academic and research structures completely consciously. Nor can I go against the absolute and irrational obsession with the financial evaluation scheme. This was the main obsession of the Diamantopoulou law that the universities considered as devoid of resources and not evaluated. We've known that all these years. Evaluations are made - and even hard - by both external and internal judges. Just a few days ago, you presented the PPP report on the evaluation of university institutions last year. However, because it cannot stand the argument that universities are not evaluated and their scientific teaching or research work is high anyway, so how will you connect the evaluation to funding? You're taking it with the douchebag. If reality does not agree with your ideas, the worse for reality. We're going to change the definition of evaluation. What are you doing? Firstly, you give the Ministry of Development research, when universities produce 80% of the research, because research needs to be linked to the market. You ignore the basics. If the market is interested in research, it is interested in applied research rather than basic research, i.e. alpha and omega of a research policy, university and public. The main thing, however, is that you change the concept of evaluation. We don't have an academic evaluation now. We have supposedly an assessment of the market, how many graduates are being absorbed into the labour market. I have also asked the committee to tell us: All universities and all departments are in the same way tempted to what we call the labour market? The graduates, for example, of the Historical and Archaeological Department, are to the same extent as the graduates of the Polytechnics, even if we incorporate your argument for the moment? What graduates? Those who continue in postgraduate or those who won't do postgraduate? Those who do a second degree and what length of time and what jobs? You are talking about the flexibility of the labour market and the constant rotation of workers during their working life, and they will suddenly be evaluated for undergraduate studies on a small point in their life, professional and postgraduate life. And, anyway, do you assess them for something the market and private business are responsible for? The market who assesses it, when it does not care about investing in research - only 8% of the expenditure invested in research comes from the private sector in Greece - and does it not concern both the salaries and the working conditions of graduates? This market assessment is not scientific, research and teaching. And, of course, if we add the fact that it will widen the gap between central and regional institutions and, if we add also the transfer of research from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Development, we have a very nice scheme: Universities with only provision of educational work, without a research equivalent, which ultimately degrade to something similar to colleges. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance for a minute, Mr President. Third question: Suspension and legislation of the thirty-seven departments of the new departments. You were told by the representatives of the bodies in the relevant committee of Parliament, both the President of the Rector's Committee and the Rector of the EPC said that it was not the case. And again and again, we refer to the same argument that they were not assessed, that they were last minute amendments, etc. But here, it is not just the suspension of the thirty-seven divisions. Here we have a policy that shows, of course, that there is no fragmentary policy on the basis of legislation, amendments to unrelated bills, etc. Indeed, we must recognise that you have a coherent policy. It is the suspension of the operation of the two-year training programmes for graduates of the PESA, it is the abolition of the free access of pupils to tertiary education, in free areas, to the reduction of admissions, to the '10' basis, and the introduction of the '10' student time limit is the performance of a level playing field for college graduates. In other words, we have an overall attack on the status of public education in Greece. Apart from the social problem, this also creates a legal precedent for recruitment, for example, in other sectors, such as mechanical and fertile ground for ambiguities that will create a number of legal material for legal offices.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u57	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u58	I shall conclude, Mr President. The central strategic direction of the government is the suffocating restriction of social mobility through the educational mechanism. The aim is to limit the access of popular classes to public education, to set up a refreshing system of permanent selection and exclusions pretext for excellence and evaluation initiated by infancy and elementary education, to form secondary and reach its final destination and tertiary education. This strategy must be hampered. It is certain that the academic, educational and research community of the country, the populace and youth will defend public and free education as a social asset of free access, defend social mobility policies through the educational mechanism and cancel oligarchal inspiration strategies of "aristocraticism" of the educational good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Bernardakis, I, too, must defend the regularity of the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u60	This law will prove inappropriate and will be abolished in practice, as his ‘ideological father’, the Diamantopoulou Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u61	Thank you. Mr Marios Katsis, MP SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a bill from the Ministry of Education, which in my opinion reflects the neoliberal obsession of the government against public universities and public education as a whole. The Minister of Education may have been arrested on a Greek-wide channel not knowing the percentage of GDP spent on education, but the "switching out of the sweater" knows how to do it well. First, the Government comes by law, namely Article 33, to suspend the operation of thirty-seven new university departments established by the SYRIZA Government. The New Democracy Government does this by law! Hold that! Previously, you abolished the two-year curriculum, which would cost as much as the money that your Government will give to the Boston School: two million euros a year to make a ruffle in the family in view of the vote or I don't know what else, as Mr Mitsotakis and the family site, Kalami. Secondly, the Ministry, after telling us that the new departments do not have the consent of the IPPC, so they cannot go ahead, come with this draft law and repeal it. So the New Democracy so much respects the independent authority that abolishes it and in its place builds up the National Higher Education Authority, which will neither be independent nor have increased responsibilities. So, what are you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? You are building a new beginning in your actions, which will in fact follow your political decisions, and you will hide behind this principle by charging her the political cost of these decisions to alleviate social reactions. Thirdly, the Government introduces a new model of financing the HEIs, which provides that EIIs will be financed by 80% on the basis of general criteria and 20% on the basis of specific criteria. How, then, will this 20% be distributed? As the Ministry wants. After you set up the National Higher Education Authority, which is cut and stitched on your measures, as we said before, at the recommendation of its Higher Council, the Minister of Education will determine the criteria for the allocation, quality and achievement indicators and allocate funding. So the Minister and the head of the Ministry will now hold the "knock" of funding for the AEI, with what this implies for the self-employed of the institutions. So, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to understand what it is waiting for if you are voting for this bill in your own constituency today, in order for any of the new sections to function in your constituency - if and if so - you would ask the mighty Mr. Kerameos and Mr. Digalakis to intervene in the new PPP, to have a positive recommendation and then to legislate on the functioning of the section, that is, on a case-by-case basis and on the basis of political purposes, what you are accusing us of. But you do not stop the dismantling of public education here. Article 50 provides that the evidence of formal qualifications awarded by private colleges is to be accepted by the AACC for appointment to primary and secondary education. In other words, you come in this way to bypass Article 16 of the Constitution, putting college graduates in public. And, yes, at the bottom - the Constitution, to revise this article, needs the consent of a large majority of Members. So, why are you going to override it and take it out of the window? It is not enough, therefore, for someone to have read and write well in order to graduate, provided they are from a well-founded family, so that they can pay college tuition fees. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to understand the citizens who are following us, the preoccupation, obsession and irresponsibility with which the government handles the issues of higher education, I will tell you what we in Thesprotia have experienced with the Translation and Interpretation Department in Igoumenitsa, which founded in October 2018 the SYRIZA Government and abolished today, leaving Thesprotia outside an academic map after twenty-five years. And because he keeps using it as a follow-up to Thesprotia and the Translation and Interpretation Department, Mr. Digalakis as a negative example, I will respond very thoroughly. At first, then, the local executives of the New Democracy and the local MP of the Opposition then accused us of shutting down the existing TEI of the city. Recruitment: We were accused of New Democracy, which in 2013 with the "ATHENA" project closed one Department and the other two departments merged them into one, which was problematic, which remained in Igoumenitsa. So while you accused us of wanting to close the department of TEI, when we brought Law 4559/2018, the law founded by the Department of Translation and Interpretation of the School of Social Sciences of Ioannina, which is based in Igoumenitsa, the New Democracy voted against this law because it did not work, says, from the first cycle. That's what you said. Election, of course, the local MP of the New Democracy told us that the department was founded because of the opposition attitude and pressure of the New Democracy. But then you became government. You started implementing the contract of shrinking the HEIs by reducing the admissionees and closing the Law School of Patras. Since then, the ball has been completely lost. On the one hand, the Deputy Minister of Education, Mr. Digalakis, in my timely question about the failure of the department, said that it was a political decision of the New Democracy, based on the opinion of the PPP. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the government, Mr Digalakis and Mrs Kefala, who I heard earlier from this Stepma - I note that it is better to deal with the Law of Ioannina and not with the rest of the continent, because you are neither 'continental' nor 'landlord' - I will tell you that in the case of Igoumenitsa there is an opinion of the IPP and I will present it in the Minutes, which the IPP opinion is from 9-5-2017. So the example you bring that there are no PPP opinions and that all these sections were made without academic qualifications. It was that administration that we found when we became a government without changing it before the end of its term of office. I therefore give the opinion in the Minutes so that you can have knowledge and not say that you do not know. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Katsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Listen to the oxymobile. It abolishes the IPD with this bill, which it has already given its opinion on the section, and he ignores it, and it seems that he continues to ignore it. A moment ago, the Step came up here and also mentioned the call for the Translation and Interpretation Division in Igoumenitsa, against which the congress is opposed to the operation of the department. What the Undersecretary forgot to say is, first, that the call was made immediately after the decision and intention of the Ministry to suspend the operation of the department, which was taken without any question from the academic community. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Secondly, he forgot to say that the Senate of the University of Ioannina and the University of Ioannina Epirus, both in the debate prior to the law, founded by the University of Ioannina, as well as during the legislature, agreed with the Translation and Interpretation Division and is recorded in the Minutes. It therefore agreed with the establishment of the department. The fact that the Senate of the University of Ioannina changed its attitude after the decision to suspend the Ministry and after it had leaked that the financing for the HEIs would be carried out by an evaluation by the Minister, is something that the Senate itself must answer. Also, let the Senate of the University of Ioannina tell us why it is the only senator of a higher education institution in Greece, who has prompted him to align himself with the Ministry's intentions in this matter. My mind goes somewhere, but I can't be a guesser. The minister also mentioned that the school's headquarters are far away, i.e. in Igoumenitsa, while the department is in Igoumenitsa. Get your hands up here. You've never seen this happen before, Minister, have you? You want to tell us this is unprecedented, it's unprecedented. Why don't you go out here and get the political cost and say clearly that you don't want higher education in Thesprotia, so it won't work a university department in Igoumenitsa. That's all. That's why I'm telling you right away. Don't you like the Translation and Interpretation Department in Igoumenitsa? Did we do it all wrong? Good. So create another department. But you do not intend to do that, because you only want to dismantle and want to leave Thesprotia outside of higher education. What did we hear all this time in Thesprotia?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Katsy, I can't let you talk about Thesprotia anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u64	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr. Minister, to recommend this confiscated bill, it brings us as a counterexample. This thing can't go on. And the opinion of the delegation can also be changed. What, then, did we hear in Thesprotia? The local officials of the New Democracy and the government MP were calling us...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u65	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u66	I'm closing, Mr. President. We heard that the Ministry has no reason to see whether a department is being established, whether it operates or is being abolished, but it is a matter of the convening of each Foundation. Unfortunately, for my fellow citizens, reality cannot hide for long. Article 33 ends the story. The Government brings law to suspend the thirty-seven departments and the New Democracy MPs will take responsibility for drafting...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Katsy, hang up right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u68	...or local society or your party.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u69	Shut up now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u70	That is why we will have a roll-call vote. No more duplicity, no more populism! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u71	I would remind you that under the Rules of Procedure, any of the three hundred Members of Parliament can speak of any issue of any prefecture across the territory and not just of the county in which it is elected. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, twenty-five students and two teachers and two teachers from the Greek Faculty of Agia Paraskevi (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u72	I want to have a good evening too. I imagine they are very interested in today's debate, but I am in the unpleasant position, Minister, to say that such a matter of major importance to education is being discussed, I would say - and I shall say so rawly, so that the children - the glue - can understand it. I'm sorry to say that, but if we understood what education means, or if we understood what an educational system means, we wouldn't have arrived here. We've arrived here because we have a poor educational system. We have a system that creates children 'pads' without acidity, mainly without critical thought, so that today's society is flexible in every nonsense of television, through brain washing, because they lack critical capacity. It's nothing simple, it's something important. Because of my quality, because I am involved in education, I will tell you, Minister, what the great philosopher Aristotle had said thousands of years ago. He said that, and I want you to hear it. Those who have carefully studied the way in which people are governed must be convinced that the fate of the nations depends on the education of the young. Within three sentences, Minister, he says everything. I'm wondering, Minister, if you can't hear me, but it doesn't matter. I'll do what my friend Mr. Katsey did here, talking about Thesprotia. I shall speak for myself, and I shall say my own, as all my colleagues here do, who each speaks of the county of which did not become a university. To do all over Greece, in every county, five universities, to serve the small-party benefits of each of us, our voting benefits. That doesn't make sense. When I hear Thessalonikius or Larissaeus, who I am elected there, or Laconas struggling for whether to become the university in his area, it means that he does not care about the essence of education, but he is interested in the vote. With these things we disagree radically and say so clearly. I'll start with the simples. A few years ago, when I was a student, the Ministry of Education was called the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs. Suddenly, one morning the "National Education". When the "Nation" leaves inside, Minister, it means something very simple, that the nation leaves. The nation, the habit, the customs, the traditions. Because, you know, the word "national" can be framed by the left's hegemony as a bad concept, but for me it is a very important concept of cohesive tissue. He unites the nation against all that comes. If you don't love your nation, you can never move as a team and a whole. It's for granted. You know what bothered me, Minister? Before you even bring the bill, is your job to open mosques on Kos and on Rhodes? At a time when Turkey is escalating claims, suddenly one morning you decided to make mosques in Kos and in Rhodes. I wonder why we should do the mosques there? Yes, it's a decision of the Ministry of Religion, Mr. Famele, and if you don't know, find out, that's not a bad thing. So we have a tactic. Our negotiating papers are not 'burned' when Turkey claims any negotiating papers. We're not giving them away for free. I'm saying, to understand it, why you're making mistakes. Here's what's happening to us, ladies and gentlemen, for fighting and having a hegemony. And I'm referring to the false left, because the New Democracy is afraid of you. New Democracy has a horror, he hears a false left and he trembles, as if you are the great ideologists! You're not really anything, because you represent nothing. You came to the government as a party that was against the memorials, against the anti-grassroots measures, and you did the worst of what those who did, at least, do not hide. He's with capitalism. It's their opinion. We want to see'relapse'. We want a school where the child will know what it means to be Greek. We want a school that the child will be treated, with education, with knowledge, no - you know - knowledge specialist, but treatment, learn from the teacher and the teacher what it means to have treatment. Unfortunately, civil lawsuits have been abolished. That is why we have made citizens - I will say it directly - unadulterated and not active citizens. And that was the aim of the whole political system either from the fake - Left, either from the Right or from the New Democracy or from the PASOK. The aim was not to get active citizens out. The aim was to get inappropriate, addicted citizens out. Because the active citizen comes out of education. If you don't understand, unfortunately, you'll hit what I say many times, the wall of history. My Minister, the bill has been handed over. We ideologically agree on private education with asterisks. The bill is rough. I'm saying it straight away. There was no real discussion with the other parties, Minister. Why? There has been no substantial discussion. You know what I mean. When the government comes to do such an incision, it must have an essential debate. What are you doing here? You're bringing the ten commandments of Keramos. It's like you're the new God and you say that your ten commandments will be followed literally by all. This is not the case in democracy. We cannot talk about democracy when the government decides on any legislative work without hearing any proposal from the other parties. And that's not all. All in all, it's the problem. Ideologically, we agree. In the assessment clearly, and I will agree. Who would disagree in here? Let me tell you who disagrees, Minister, with the evaluation. The unsuccessful, deadly perpetrator and fraudster disagree with the evaluation, whether political or professional fraud. Why, if I am good, should I question the evaluation, that is, to assess the Ministry, my employer, that I am good or bad? Where are those inspectors, my Minister, who went to elementary schools - I remember - and they saw the teacher do his job well? So she's going to be an inspector, and the fake left-handers are going to prick him. That's the reality. For me, you know, the need for'relaps' is very important. But we are talking about evaluation, and I am asking myself: who will assess the assessors. Who's gonna assess? The problem - you know - is not that there are no control mechanisms in Greece. The problem is that the control mechanisms are uncontrolled. Why? Because they are appointed by you, by the government in question. That's the problem. So instead of all sitting together and deciding what this evaluation will be like - from whom it will be made up, the natural persons - you say 'I will decide'. You can't do that. You are not God with the ten commandments that we must unreservedly observe. In Germany, I know five things more, because that's where I was born - my parents were immigrants, etc. - the evaluations are done. The evaluations are there, however, going globally. They don't just go through the government. I want you to understand that. It's wrong what you're doing. I'm coming to private colleges. Madam Minister, I want private universities. What's the new trick? The colleges must become universities. I don't get it. Honestly, I have a question. And what does that mean? I'm talking about a real university, though, with a remarkable curriculum, with control. Yeah, check it out. Because if we do, we'll also have a financial benefit. To study the Africans, the Asians, the Europeans - if you like - Greek culture. For example, do a Medical School in Kos, a Medical School of Hippocrates, of a university level, of a private nature - if you like - but it's called the Hippocrates Medical School, which everyone knows and all foreigners go to study there. So, yeah. Do you want Philosophy with Aristotle and Plato? Yeah. I don't understand what's gotten into you now with colleges. Because most colleges belong abroad. Listen to what crime you've committed, Minister. The college of foreigners is balanced with the Greek university. But the money that the Greek will give will go out again. I want Greek universities where the money stays here. Yeah, be from Greek businessmen. Yeah, be in cooperation with the public sector. But the money stays here, since every year we have bleeding, a bunch of billions of euros abroad, and we lose money. And you know, Minister, it's not like we used to have the drachma. Now, Greece doesn't print any money. This means that when I send EUR 2.5 billion and 3 billion for tuition fees to England, Germany or France, I have to borrow two and a half billion, three billion, to send them abroad. So the mess is five billion to six billion. And I say this to the ideoleptics - supposedly - on the left, who most of them studied abroad. That's more than that. Now, they're left-wing, they've studied abroad, but they don't want private universities. We are talking about the definition of political ignorance. There is no more horrendous political system than what we have here. I'm in favour of private universities to study, I'm against becoming private universities in Greece, I'm in favour of the people, but I live in Katalis. Believe me, I don't understand that. At least I say that I live in Panorama Thessaloniki, I am well economical and wealthy, I am with capitalism. I get it. Of course, it's not their fault. It's the people who vote for them. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] I want to tell you one more thing, which I have in front of me. As far as universities are concerned, I will tell my friends on the left what is their logic. And I want you to hear that, Minister, because Joseph Stalin has said so. "Training is a weapon whose consequences depend on who keeps it in his hands and who has it turned on." Joseph Stalin said that. That's an excellent saying. So this gun has had it for decades, Mrs. Kerameau, the ideological left, the fake left. In the middle of the school they had sprinkles that beat each other, violence, chewed teachers, never let them talk. He was dependent on the professor at the university whether to choose him or to make him a dean. We're talking about the orgy of the transaction. What to say about safety and building infrastructures. See universities, my Minister. Are you happy with this picture that you're Minister? Look, Minister, it's a good picture. Look, how's the Greek university? Rejoice! You're a Minister of Education, aren't you? This is one of the universities, gentlemen. Look at images to understand what universities we have. And they all - you know - they're fake left. They are the ones I say "Mao, Mao, Anarchists". They are not real lefters, because real lefters respect the spaces. I'm filing the photos to see some people and learn. [[At this point the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have violence in teachers, violence in third parties, traffic, smuggling, drugs, occupation. Madam Minister, do you want to do good and keep your name written as the best Minister of Education? Remove orders at universities tomorrow morning. Remove all parties and groups that are an iniquity and a transaction between teachers and student orders. Why don't you do it? Why don't you ladies, where you're in here and you're cut off for education? In words, you're all cut. But when your party transaction comes, you're back. Remove orders from universities. It's a crime you're doing with our children. Because that's where you split them. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I know some people agree with me on what I'm saying. I repeat that this is where our youth is divided. It's divided by MAKI, PSP and a bunch of crap. What does my child need who is currently studying financially at the university? Let me tell you what she needs. He needs it to go to the trade unionist of the New Democracy or PASOK and say "I know the professor, come to us and pass the lessons." Are we serious? Don't you know that? Madam Secretary, don't you know that? Do you know that, Minister? Do they or do they not happen to the universities?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u73	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u74	So after they are done, remove the orders to end the fairy tale. And the Prime Minister is the reformer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u75	I said I'd answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u76	He did not say 'yes'. The Minister doesn't know. She doesn't know what's going on in universities, anyway. I don't understand. Not everyone knows it here. Nobody knows. Let's go to the ridiculous. Here, the Romanian, Madam Minister, has an office at a Greek university. Are you all right? And you're a Minister of Education, and do you accept that? Romania has - I repeat - its own office autonomously. And I say it to understand where we've reached Greece. This is a tragedy, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. We agree on a few things. Let's find our common sense. They are our children, tomorrow of Greece, of a Greece blocked, as Mitsotakis says, with Ibrahim and Hassan. That's more than that. But it's our children, the future of our country. How do you put up with this? How do you not understand the necessity that our child must learn Greek, must learn to speak Greek? They report to the channels every day and ask them what happened on October 28, and each one says his long and short. Aren't we a little embarrassed? Isn't anyone ashamed in here? All you're interested in is your parties? All you care about is whether there will be PASOK, New Democracy, the Greek Solution, SYRIZA and the other parties? Is that all you're interested in? Don't you care about Greece's tomorrow? The worst of all, Minister, is that there is no correlation between the labour market and the universities. I will give you an example. I'm one of those fighters. I've said it a thousand times, Minister. Hellas has seven thousand pharmaceutical herbs, two thousand seven hundred of them genius. Do you know what pharmaceutical herb means, Minister? It means more than 70 billion. You're told by someone who's involved. Do you know that there is no botanical school in Greece, Minister? Check it out. We are the only country in Europe that has no botanical school. The country that has most herbs and genius that become pharmaceutical has no botanical school. You can do a pharmaceutical business. This is one of the simplest things. ‘Assessment’. 'Universities'. "Let's do private." Guys, there's no university here. In Greece, therefore, there is not the concept of a "botanist", but a physiotherapist, which treats plants, that is. To study phytosanitary therapist it is two years of private schooling, private education through seminars, it says, private IK and the MSc are at the Aristotle, at a cost of 1,500 euros in the semester. Why am I saying that? In Edinburgh, there is four years of study, Madam Minister, in Medical Botanic. In Canada for herbal - herbal - herbal - hertology is three years old. In Barcelona, there is an ISMET school in Spain with a ten-month programme. I say, that Greece has a overwhelming advantage, must make university training technocratic, because food technology is tomorrow. He's taking out all our children political scientists, Minister. Why are these kids going to do? We give diplomas of political scientists. Why? Will they all become MPs? Is everyone going to be Ministers? We get lawyers, lawyers, and people don't have a job. So turn the university upside down and build new schools that will have production value and market connections. There's no other way! It can't be done! There's too much for lawyers, political scientists. They're unemployed kids walking around the cafeterias and bars. Why? Because you don't have a plan and a schedule. Now we're going to the bill and to Article 34. My Minister, I don't know why, but you have a problem with religion, which makes me sad, because I like you. What's the problem with Orthodoxy? Renunciation of religion and nationality by the dismissals and certificates of study. You'll tell me about the S.T.E. Yeah, but the S.T.E. He said that the pseudo whiskers are illegal. That's what the report says. He said more of the S.T.E. for wages and pensions many times and you have not applied them. Why are you applying them here? What is against history, religion, our culture is clearly and unequivocally applied. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Greek Solution is ringing at this point.]] Article 50, abolishing the holiday of three hierarchies. You told me Jerome was in agreement. Well, Jerome whenever he talks is against religion. And I call it charming. He hasn't done anything good. They're absent everywhere. He's been missing from everywhere. Whatever's against it is there, together. You remember with Mr. Tsipras. He hasn't done anything about Orthodoxy. He's got a perception. It's also because of old age. Maybe man is too old, an entrepreneur, I understand. But for what? Don't tell me now that these teachers will teach about the Three Hierarchs while they're schooling there. Because if the teachers were good, we wouldn't have had the catalyst of the educational system. Because it all starts with the teacher and the professor, who is first KKE, first New Democracy, first Greek Solution, first PASOK, first SYRIZA and then is a Greek teacher. If we were a serious country, we would say that we are abolishing these ELMEs on the basis of teachers' party criteria. They'll be teachers, they'll be paid by the public and no more what they knew. Because any announcement you see from ELME is against Greece, against history, against Orthodoxy and against the selfishness of the Greeks. Any announcement from ELME and read in the last ten years is like this. So their torque, their tendencies and attitudes are specific. I don't expect anything from the teachers. I've said it a thousand times. So what did New Democracy do about religion? Don't change Gabroglou's religious books. Why, my Minister, can we teach that it's Indian my Lady? Now tell me, Madam Minister, is our Lady Indian? This book SYRIZA did. She's made Apache, Shen and Sioux. Why should the divine infant be an Indian of the Shegen tribe and not respect the religion of another? Let us respect the religion of Muslims, but respect our religion as well. What for? Where is the equilibrium between religions? Do not reinstate the Christian oath. What do you mind, my Minister, that kid in the morning saying the national anthem and getting a flag, as they do in America, as the national attitude does? Believe in the flag, let's not believe in the nation. To believe in this flag that it symbolizes the unity of a people, a state. Why can't the flag be sworn and subjugated? Why don't we say a prayer to God, guys? I don't understand that. Why does he save and well? No criminalisation of blasphemy. I can swear, Mrs. Secretary, Gods, Panagia and Christ - away from here - but if I say something about Allah, I'm going for racism. Is that a serious state? And in order to close and not to eat your time, I will not say any more, I will only say the following: At the time all this is happening, ladies and gentlemen, today there are crises in the Greek Army, especially in the Firehouse. To understand what party you are, to serve ten, fifteen of your own, you are increasing the number of generals. I'll tell you what, guys! Christ and God bless you! Are you serious government now and to serve some friends of the New Democracy, instead of retiring them, are you making them all generals? Make ten thousand generals. How many of them are from the fire department? Seven thousand members? Make them all generals. Give them gallons, make the generals to serve them. What's the general? That is why they no longer respect the generals of some of you or of us. I'm saying that to understand where excellence is. What excellence are you going to tell me when my friend Makis Vorides gave 12 grand to the Ministry of Rural Development? Nice things. Large the Minister! Like lawge you are all, but only for your own. You're different to the others. Now, Mr President, two minutes, not more. Let's go to Huffar. My Minister, because they are serious issues, I fear that in the next few days - I say this for the first time - things will escalate. I'm telling you, we're prepared. So tell the Prime Minister not to speak much, but to convene political leaders. Turkey does not. Turkey claims. You've confused it in here. Turkey never caused it. Turkey is predictable and claims, so it does not. Challenge is another thing. When you claim ground, you're a chauvinist, militant. That's it! Let's get this straight on our minds. So I also want to denounce your media, your "SKAI", your "STAR", your "ALPHA", who while I was the only political leader who saw the Haftar government, who saw McDowi in "KING GEORGE", everyone buried it. Rejoice in your information! I remember you were here, and you denounced SYRIZA that he controls all the means. Today you're worse than them. Worse! Serve and serve you. A spokesman is the new employee of Alfouzos and Marinakis, so we don't forget. What can we talk about now? You can't even hide. So joy won't leave you! Looks like we don't need anything else. Of course, I can tell the Prime Minister that I don't want him going to The Hague. It's gonna be a crime. I agree with Antonis Samaras. I may disagree with Antonis Samaras, as with the TPA pipeline, which we did not get through and then I did not agree to go down with New Democracy, and I refused, but the one with The Hague, if you do, Minister, is like Ellas committing suicide. Because we're going to talk about it if it's ours. If he wants to go to The Hague and he's hot Mr. Mitsotakis, first we meet together and raise five main issues of retaliatory action. First, Pontius on the Pontto. Secondly, Imprus and Tenedos self-resident, according to the Treaty of Lausanne, Minister, you know that well. Turkey is obliged to have the self-declaration. Thirdly, crypt Christians in Turkey. Fourth, Patriarchate. And fifthly, withdrawing Turkish forces of invasion and occupation from Cyprus. That's the only way you go to The Hague. You put five, six of your issues, so you don't get to the point of committing suicide just discussing what the other one's entitled to. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Finally, I will say this. Mr. Prime Minister - listen, gentlemen of the New Democracy! - when he again did the Ministry of Migration Policy, putting the bag of boxing - apologies, Mr. Metarakis - to do the Minister, he said: "If I knew about the refugee, gentlemen of the New Democracy, what I know today, six months ago, I would not abolish the Ministry of Migration Policy, so I rushed to re-establish it." We had the other guy who was deceived a few years ago. He had "deceit". It wasn't a good man, it was delusional. Now we have one who didn't know. One delusion, the other didn't know, so we got to the bottom and unfortunately with what you're doing, it's got down. I'm afraid I'm saying that. So I say listen to what we say to get home well, or you go to the rocks!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a statement to make to this House. The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs shall submit its reports to the draft laws of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 1) ‘Pressure of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America on consular privileges and immunities’ and 2) ‘Repeal of the Protocol amending the Mutual Defence Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America’.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u79	Madam Secretary, do you want the floor for any intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u80	If you'll excuse me for a few minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u81	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr President, for the remarks. I would like to make a brief reference to some of the issues you have raised which I believe are inaccurate. Firstly, with regard to consultation, there has been a very substantial debate, first of all before the draft law was tabled and with representatives of your party, who we very much welcomed to the Ministry and had a substantial debate. We have recorded fertile proposals and all that has been taken into account in the whole procedure. There was a public consultation almost 20 days ago. He had little resonance. He had about a hundred and nine comments. I mean, there wasn't much criticism. There were only a hundred and nine comments, if I remember correctly, from the public consultation. There has also been an exhaustive debate in the Committee on Forums, as well as a lot of debates with the Committee on Budgets. I say all this because there is nothing that has not been covered in public debate in a broad sense. Point 2, the independence of the National Higher Education Authority. Today we are talking before the law is passed, the President of the authority is appointed by the Minister of Education. We said no! The President of the Parliament, the Committee on Institutions and the Transparency of the Parliament shall designate him. We are strengthening independence and the members of the committee are selected on the basis of a public notice. Point three, colleges. I'll tell them in detail later on in my place. But you wondered why we don't have private universities. Mr President, ask your question here in Census. It is this that voted against the New Democracy proposal for a revision of Article 16 that our country should cease to be the only country in the world in which non-state universities are not allowed to be established. Point 4. You spoke about the universities and their situation, and that is why we have brought the rules on university asylum into line with the first important step, Mr President. We have restored asylum in its true sense, for students, teachers, all academic staff to speak freely, to express themselves freely without fearing that a few meters below will attack him for what he said, for what he said. And I am very pleased, Mr President, that your party has supported this very important regulation. And if you do a round of the universities in the country, you'll already see how well the situation has improved in many universities. I don't want to name universities for good reasons. However, we have a significant improvement. Fifth point for school. You told the students to have a lawsuit. We fully agree that this is precisely why, together with the State Secretary, Mrs Zacharakis, we are proposing and are already studying new themes that will be introduced into the compulsory timetable and aim precisely at that, a wider education for children. Because knowledge, very importantly the lessons themselves, but the school has a wider mission to make society a more globally educated citizen. That is why we are introducing lessons that have to do with respect for others, with volunteering, with such very important concepts that we consider to be crucial in forming personality. You spoke of the inspectors as well. As we have already announced, the school advisors will come back, who will have a very important role in the whole shape of school operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, could I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u84	Here, Mr President, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u85	The Minister told us that the education that it took for fifty years to be demolished will build it in ten days after consultation of twenty days.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u86	I did not say that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u87	That's not happening. Even God himself doesn't do it, which in seven days did the universe. So let's actually go. As for the House that chooses people, Minister, it's half the truth. You're the majority. You're the one who's nominated. You bring them over there, so who? You. Your party.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u88	Would you rather the Minister or the House decide?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u89	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u90	Listen. Your party. Democracy says fifty plus one, not that I govern with 40%. It's democracy with the electoral law you made and you rule with 40% and 30%. Are you telling me this? Let's actually go. Now go to the universities. What I have already shown are today's images from the universities. How is it good and good? Are we serious? I'll say one. You want to talk seriously? Remove your orders. First, you as a New Democracy dismantle the SGP, and then we'll have them there in the trap to abolish the SGP too. The orders are the greatest crime of the universities. You don't. The rest is a theory that we call it this way for our time to pass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u91	The next speaker is Mr Famelos Socrates from SYRIZA. Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I had the feeling that after the speech by Mrs Velopoulos, Mrs Velopoulos, she would have something to say about the darkening and undemocratic views expressed by the Step of this House. However, Mrs Keramou said nothing about the views on the abolition of student pensions, she said nothing about the views on the abolition of workers' trade union rights. The issue, Mrs Keramos - and I challenge you - is: do you not have the democratic feeling and the view to place yourself in such undemocratic views that come within the Greek Parliament? Because some in here are concerned, because the democratic mind of Greek students led to the fall of the junta and of the Polytechnic. But it seems that some others are backing up such conversations. Madam Kyrame, I think it is your duty to take the floor on staff if you think that at least you have this attitude, and to stand against the views of the abolition of student resignations and teachers' unions. Otherwise, you will be with the Europe of the Middle Ages and not with the Europe of Enlightenment. Otherwise, you will appeal to those views. However, Mr President, I have to say that the New Democracy Government is very inventive when it has to serve the contracts it has made before the elections. We take your hat off for the way you are getting out of the article of the Constitution which explicitly prohibits the setting up of higher schools by private individuals. Unless you have to give the credit, Mrs. Kerameau, to college owners who wrote you article 50, because that's probably how this article is written. Even 'KATHMERINI' today doubts whether there is an opinion from the European Union which leads you to Article 50 only and take notice of it. The government, which does not represent the interests of the Greeks, who do not represent the interests of the students, the graduates of the Greek universities, is still doing all they can to the detriment of the public university, the owners of colleges or the co-operating third party owners with seals that do not offer knowledge, but those who sell degrees to many of the children. In practice, the title of the bill is: "Execution of excellence due to a transaction with private colleges at the expense of the Greek University", because you are a government of deception and transaction. Before I arrive at the issues of excellence, we must make it clear that this is neither the idealism of the New Democracy nor the obsession. It is a choice to trade and sell the public interest. It is essentially a subsidy policy of government interests, and it is essentially a recycling of the right misery that has brought us into bankruptcy, because this government is hostile to everything that is created in the public space and particularly hostile to matters of knowledge and progress. The only reform of the New Democracy is privatisation. That's as far as it goes. However, the government under Article 50 is bypassing the Constitution and devaluing the universities, but also the efforts of young people and all the work of teachers. Does SYRIZA say that? Oh, no. It is said by the Metsovian Polytechnic senator, who says that the professional equation of the graduate colleges reduces public education, exacerbates the unemployment problem and effectively removes Article 16 of the Constitution. It is said by the county of the Faculty of Philosophy, which says that the government does not follow either proposals from the Council of Europe or from UNESCO. Evidently, as it is with Europe, in any case before the reform of the Enlightenment is Mrs Kerame's Europe, because she chooses not to oppose antidemocratic and darkening views that are heard here and does not take into account the fact that students in colleges are not chosen by a pan-Hellenic examination, their qualifications are less, they have attended fewer courses, they have not practiced, they have not combined their education with research, they have not been evaluated by a higher authority and, of course, their teachers, cannot be regarded as equal. So he deceives thousands of graduates who wait in line and practically all he does is tell the parents who have spent, the children who have tried, the children who have studied, the unemployed who are waiting, that this is the excellence of the New Democracy. Excellency is only for college owners. It is neither for students nor for students, nor for parents, nor for those trying to prepare. The unequal management of young people, the unequal management of Greece is what the New Democracy does, which closes the door to the excellences, because there are too many who have fought and throw into the basket of unpunished children's efforts. Awesome for you, of course, are the canalarchs, as excellence was the owners of private IEK when you closed your training so that you could take care of your own people. It is a fraud, the excellence of the New Democracy, because it is well known that there are low-level seals - private colleges abroad that can carry here, if you like, workers who are likely to want to take them down to low pay. At the same time, you are suffocating in universities because you are giving them much less resources, especially in weak and peripheral universities. The next step has the same goal, the closure of the public university. Humanitarian - social studies are being ignored in funding criteria, contrary to the meeting of the redeemers, because that is not just what SYRIZA says. And finally, the deterioration of higher education institutions, ladies and gentlemen, is a deterioration of Greece. New Democracy chooses in global knowledge competition to degrade Greece, because it does not interest the national interest either. That is why he gave the investigation to Mr Adoni Georgiadis. At the same time it also degrades higher education by degrading the principle of higher education and cancels independence and closes thirty-seven departments, most of which are in the region. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But you will allow me to tell you that you are also downgrading environmental education issues, because even though our government has upgraded environmental education centres, it has linked them to sustainable development and it has set up new centres, Mrs Keramos has come to abolish the centres for sustainability and at the same time closes the six new environmental education centres created by the previous government, one of which is also in the Municipality of Thermis, in the municipality I come from. And, indeed, they have the nerve to ask a question, which we have tabled, which we describe, and also the call and establishment of the centres since 2018 - two years ago - to say that the closure of the environmental education centres - because they are six environmental education centres that you have closed - is due to lack of funding. But their lie seems, because they exist - and I present them to the House, Mr President - to continue operations by the Ministry of Development, even now, in December 2019, at least EUR 3 million, which demonstrates that funding exists and is an ESDP. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So it is a lie even at a question that the government has answered, that it closes environmental education centres because of a lack of funding but, on the contrary, it is right that it closes environmental education centres because, firstly, there is probably consensus and opaqueness in the choice of teachers, secondly, it is committed to being contrary to anything that SYRIZA wants for the progress of the place, for education and the environment - and that is the darkness about which New Democracy and Mrs Kerameau are dangerous - and because she has done a fraud against both excellence and youth and good effort, a fraud and the environment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Famelle, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u94	Imagine, the Ministry of Education and the New Democracy closes with the selection of environmental education centres in Greece. Bravo! And higher! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u95	The next speaker is Mr Economou John from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the area of education to which most of the reforms and legislative interventions have been tested and implemented by every other area of central government's responsibility. It is true that in the early years these changes allowed Greek education to go a considerable distance. The introduction of the common new Greek language, the mixed education, the pan-Hellenic exams, in order to eradicate favourite democracy, have been key and important steps towards modernising our educational system. Finally, a crucial aspect of the course of that period was the commitment of education policies to the European perspective opened for the country. Somewhere there, however, important and important stopped and paradoxes began. Apart from some fragmentary, partial corrective moves, the vast majority of the following dozens of "reform" interventions were oriented towards the logic of "kove, sewer, tears" for education and, in the end, failed to meet the greatest challenge they had to face. In other words, they were unable to ensure the quality of the education process, structure and content of the studies. However, ladies and gentlemen, in order to enable the country to meet the needs of a rapidly changing domestic and international environment, the main and central objective of the reforms we are trying to achieve, whatever changes are taking place in the area of education, should be to ensure high-quality education. The attempted changes should lead to the production of high-level education, which will promptly assimilate knowledge produced at every corner of the Earth and at the same time contribute to its production and dissemination. We need, in other words, in education policies that will enable the educational process to be dynamically linked to employment and the changes that characterize it, which will provide multiple options, which will provide opportunities, which will guarantee opportunities to everyone and especially to the weakest. In order to move forward in this direction throughout the range of education - and, of course, in higher education - we need a culture of long-term strategic planning, we need more autonomy, we also need a continuous evaluation and certification of the curriculum programmes, an assessment of the objectives and demands, on which is judged not only in Greece, but everywhere in the world, whether higher education can be the measure of prosperity, quality of life, the reduction of inequalities, but also the reaction to crises and downstream cycles as we have recently experienced in our country. The introduction of the national higher education authority comes to respond to the need to address a deficit that for decades characterises Greek higher education, a deficit in terms of long-term planning, evaluation and certification of studies. It is a deficit, ladies and gentlemen, which has shaped a great deal of disparity in our country between the cognitive fields of many university departments and schools and the skills and knowledge that the labour market needs, a deficit which has led to the design for the new sections being carried out at the foot, the abolitions and mergers of departments being attributed to criteria where the correlations of political power, power games and power games played a much greater role than purely academic and educational criteria. The most recent - perhaps the most characteristic - example of this logic was the fragmentation of the Central Greek TEI - a TEI of Central Greece was divided into three university departments - and the unprecedented academic downgrading of the Region of Central Greece, since Central and, in particular, Lamia is the only one of the thirteen capital regions that have remained without a university home and without a single educational establishment. And I believe, Minister, that it is the duty of the new authority to directly review the whole issue, not only to respond to the 'why' of the people of Phthiotida or, of course, from Yanati, but to assess with purely educational, academic and developmental criteria whether an area with thermal wealth, with greater production of table olives, with historical and archaeological monuments such as Gorgopotamos, Alamana, Thermopylia, with its geographical location, is entitled, on the basis of these criteria, to be the seat of a single and united university. It is urgently necessary from its recommendation that the principle be very serious about this challenge. Ladies and gentlemen, from the contents of the bill, it is understood that the national authority has a neuro-algal role to play in our educational system and it is our government's duty, Minister, to shield the principle with merit, prestige, scientific depth and academic aggression needed to play its part. In addition, and in conjunction with the criticism expressed on Article 50 - and, attention, I am talking about the reasonable reservations expressed about the application of Article 50, not about the cries or about hypocrisy or about a theory that is exhausted in sterile negativity and ceremonial almost and without the content of an ideological complaint of the marketing of education - I would suggest that the new authority extend its competences, Minister, not only in public universities but also in every post-training structure. You will tell me, but here the connection is made on the basis of financial resources, 20% which, based on evaluation, will be able to get public institutions in agreement. This may not be done in the non-public structures, but it can be linked by diligence or, in any case, by the supervision of the authority in my opinion as to whether the content of the studies, the process of education, the way in which the qualifications are obtained is at that level which justifies the equal treatment of graduates from these schools with graduates from the public universities, the State universities in the Greek State. With these thoughts, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the bill that we are discussing today is a very substantial step in the direction of education and, in particular, public education, a force that will create insurmountable new areas of knowledge, a force that will create new jobs, which will fuel the real economy with jobs and, above all, a force that will create educated and handmade citizens, a force that will create proud and cosmopolitan Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u97	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-two students and students and three teachers from the 5th Patras High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Skondra Silina has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Madam Minister, Madam and Mr Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, this bill marks a change for the better, especially in the way the government understands, of course, but also the greatest of all the Greek people, the role and function of higher education in our country. I would like to dwell on this point, because listening to some colleagues on an attack on education, on its dissolution and on other things, it seems to me that, once again, they are seeing the tree and they are losing the forest, or that once again they are acting as if they were astonished. We are all aware of the fortresses that higher education has been facing for many years in Greece. We also all realise that much of the responsibility falls on the back of the political system, not on the academic community itself, and in particular on those political forces that faced and continue to address the issue of higher education and educational institutions with ideology and micro-party purposes, with left-wing pseudo-sensitivity, with concepts outdated and condemned by society. However, ladies and gentlemen, higher education throughout the world is evolving, modernised, improved and competes with one another by handing out to the free international market scientists of well-trained knowledge and services. To try in Greece - in vain I would say - to exclude domestic higher education from these international developments, only us will harm and, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you must take this seriously. The rest of the world is moving on and not waiting for us. The train will be lost definitively and our children will be lacking in the knowledge and skills of their colleagues from abroad. That is where the substance of the matter lies to me. So the current leadership of the Ministry comes in and lays the necessary foundations for the restructuring and operation of the institutions so that they can meet the needs of a modern and highly competitive labour market, produce integrated and extroverted research and have substantial autonomy of administrative and economic activity. And of course, the establishment of a relationship between evaluation and funding, which, for the first time, is useful and in the right direction. The committee responsible presented opinions and proposals for improvements to the institutions. Knowing the high sense of responsibility of the government, it is certain that these were taken into account in the final text of the bill. Three are the main areas of legislation: the National Higher Education Authority, which replaces limited competences, the liberalisation of specific research funds accounts, which is the central tool for financing research in universities, and the other regulations, which aim mainly at resolving operational and bureaucratic problems. This new principle will become the central pillar of the operation of higher education in order to contribute decisively to the strengthening and upgrading of universities. It will address the development of a national strategy for higher education, evaluation, certification and quality assurance of curricula and institutions. And to those of you, listening only to the word "assessment" you are reckless, I have to say that our government's pre-election commitment is being implemented to increase transparency on all issues relating to higher education and to the best educational and research practices. In the PPE part, I am not going to dwell very much, as it has already been analysed enough. The arrangements exempt institutions from heavy bureaucracy, which is a brake on the conduct of the investigation, but at the same time strengthen the guarantees of transparency and accountability. Apart from the arrangements for universities, however, the bill also creates conditions for a more modern primary education, with more flexible procedures, away from bureaucratic claws, for a school that will provide knowledge and skills to tomorrow's citizens, who must be ready to face the challenges of life. A State certificate of IT shall be established, obtained after examination. It is yet another supply for our young people who are called upon to respond to a modern and competitive digital environment. Ladies and gentlemen, the Gabroglou Act has created a mess. It disturbed higher education, formed a new academic map, merging HEI - TEI - merging, abolishing schools and creating new ones, of which many without academic criteria, without a study of sustainability and feasibility and also without regulated professional rights. The only feasibility was the rushphetological, since parts were founded or destroyed on the knee, when the bill was passed on to the parliament. So the suspension is correct, Minister, so that all the parameters are taken into account. Many regions experienced this unrealistic situation, such as Karditsa with the Nutrition and Dietology, Wood and Furniture Technology Departments, a model, extroverted and unique in the country of Forestry and Natural Environment, which were either broken up or transferred, without considering that these were dynamically recognized sections, with professional rights and conditions of development, where more than two thousand students were studying together. At this point, Minister, I would like to state my personal view that technological education must be set up again in our country because it is a key pillar of education and professional careers for young people who offer necessary services to society and the economy. I also hope, Minister, that the new authority will carefully review Carditsa's position on the academic map, not to be wrong, to regain what is right there and not to fall short of at least the neighbouring prefectures. Ladies and gentlemen, I will close my position by keeping what I consider to be the essence of this bill: the Government implements the promises. It creates a modern framework for the operation and supervision of higher education. It enables institutions to offer high-level studies in high-level sectors in response to future requirements. So we stop the continuing evacuation of skilled human resources abroad, promote the extroversion and internationalisation of the Greek HEIs, ensuring the necessary know-how for our future scientists to be able to provide practically to Greek society and the Greek economy. The New Democracy, in faithfully following a policy of strengthening the role of public education and the Greek universities, introduces regulations that will highlight their true quality and the high level of education that they provide to the new generation. In the field of national education, neither party nor ideological strangles exist. As such, the bill must be supported by all of us and by those who react by saying that the arrangements should be better, I say: the enemy of the good is indeed the best. However, this is not an excuse for not supporting regulations that bring us a step closer to the better. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Dimitrios Haritou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I do not know if you seriously believe that with the arrangements you bring you, you will contribute to the upgrading of universities to make them competitive in the international environment. At least in the first seven months of your administration you have not shown us such samples of writing. On the contrary, what we systematically monitor is to shake down the Constitution and in particular the provisions that protect public education and the self-employed of universities. Suddenly and without the consent of the educational community you abolished university asylum, you abolished the possibility of free access to higher education that would be breathtaking to keep regional universities alive, such as Democratio. You inhibited the operation of the two-year curriculum for the graduates of the PESA, ignoring the congresses that had accepted the proposals and implementing the arrangements. And today what do we see with the arrangements you bring? That you probably have other things in mind. Not the upgrade of higher education, but rather its degradation. What else does it mean to simulate the diplomas of private colleges with those of universities, benefiting all kinds of academia? It seems that your obsessions are reluctant to bring through the window what you have not been able to pass through the door, namely the revision of Article 16 of the Constitution for Public Universities. And what are you doing? You are working on ways, baptizing fish meat, i.e. basically recognizing the equivalence of college degrees with those of public universities, many of which are internationally recognised for the quality of their studies. Is that for you the content of excellence you supposedly take, assimilating doubtful college content to universities? Don't you realize that by such arrangements, the first to be affected will be regional universities, when you get a degree in professional rights, but without any academics? Let us go. You're not listening to us. At least listen to what most congresses tell you to do, who disagree with the arrangement and ask you not to go any further. But you probably don't sweat your ears! Now, ladies and gentlemen, because on one night you abolished the thirty-seven new sections already established by law and were to work in 2020, including those of Kavala, which the academic community and the local community expected so much! Unfortunately, you're dismantling sections. We in Thrace have expected the establishment and functioning of the six new departments launched by the congress with the local society, a mature legislative proposal from the prior leadership of the Ministry of Education, which is now in your drawers, Minister, I hope you have not thrown it away. Yesterday my meeting with the Republican authorities showed that you will ask them again to submit their proposals for the establishment and operation of the new departments. What can anyone say? It seems to me, Minister, that 'whoever doesn't want to ferment is sifting ten days'! At a time when the universities come out of a heavy winter of sub-financing and sub-station, I was just informed by locals in my county that the president and vice-president of the Department of Paraskevi had submitted her resignation because of the failure to operate. And while today, at the moment, the universities have been waiting and it is time to give them the necessary appropriations so that in the new era that opens up for the country to contribute as a key growth factor, what are you doing? You are actually cutting them off some of the funding, in the name of evaluation or in order to be more competitive. With today's funding of these universities, it is difficult to cover their inappropriate expenditure and you, with the arrangements you bring them, account for 80% of the already reduced funding, while the remaining 20% will be called for. You are actually putting universities under comitology, indirectly destroying their selfishness. You create schools of many speeds, which, in order to survive in the jungle you throw them, will be engaged in in insurmountable competition. You take too much responsibility, because you are triggering internal conflicts in the country's scientific and research community. However, the biggest victims of these arrangements will be the regional universities. You are leading them to a search for resources outside public funding, without realising the enormous difficulties they will face in meeting the evaluation criteria. I am referring above all to the Democrat University, which, because of its geographical location, will find itself unable to respond to it, so that it finds itself with complicated funding. Let me remind you, Minister, that just a few kilometers after Evros giantises the University of Adrianoupolis, unlike the Democritus University, which, unfortunately, will gradually lead to extinction. Do you understand what you're doing? I hope you realize that any retreat of this regional university will bring together a huge part of the economic and cultural life of our region. Gentlemen of the government, if your real interest was to reward the best, namely to motivate the universities, you could institutionalise an additional bonus funding, by setting acceptable rating criteria, with the consent of universities, rather than disseminating 20% obviously with opaque and, if necessary, personal criteria. I'm afraid other things are the springs of your settings. Unfortunately, they do not lead to the upgrading of higher education. You are giving a greater part of the private sector and, unfortunately, the burden of education is painfully burdened by family budgets. You manage education as a commodity. The havings will have the chances, the rest of them in Kavala! I am therefore voting against this bill with the arrangements you have brought.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u101	Mr Stefanidis Christodoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today's world is in turmoil - it is commonly accepted - and there is, of course, a constant review of values. It has to face an increased environmental change, including an increased flow, population mobility. Our homeland, ladies and gentlemen, is now being seen by this refugee - immigration crisis and especially the islands of the eastern Aegean and, in particular, Samos, where the problem is unmanageable. The solution to some peoples lies in weapons, while at the same time seeing the general turbulence as an opportunity to show once again the imperialist attitudes, such as our evil neighbour. But, as Martin Luther King said, there is no worse weapon for man to use to change the world from education. Greece since ancient times has been a country characterized by its culture. Arts, physics, mathematics, astronomy, medicine is some of the fields that have been developed here in these places of our ancestors and we must develop them. We owe all the great scientists, who were born here in this country, to continue the endless, spiral development upwards, of course always upwards. If we commonly consider that everyone should cultivate their talents and skills and feed with new knowledge, with new techniques, with new research, then it is necessary for Greece to invest in one of the sectors that has shown it over time since antiquity, namely its education. This Legislation of the Ministry of Education is an answer to all those who consider that power is only military. The greatest supply, according to Plato, brought by someone with him when he goes to Hades is his education and education. However, like all things in education in order to achieve quality, there must be some rules. Rules designed both to define the quality criteria of education and to ensure them. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years many arbitrary reclassifications have taken place in the academic community. OECD report, i.e. the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, in 2016, showed that the global money allocated to education, research and development is increasingly being reduced. We must therefore understand that there is a direct link between recovery from the economic crisis - which is of particular interest today - and investment, science, research and education. The National Higher Education Authority, the ETHE, with this proposed draft law, obviously aims to formulate a national strategy on issues relating to higher education, evaluation and certification of quality assurance in higher education institutions in our country. An important part of this bill that we are discussing is the extroversion of Greek educational institutions and the need to be fully matched with the guidelines and recruits the European area of higher education. Key issues relating to equality and respect for the co-man, come to the fore for the first time and will now play a decisive role in the evaluation of higher education institutions, such as gender equality, accessibility to disabled people and strategic internationalisation of institutions. It is not only the aim of our universities to meet international and European standards, but it is because they are constantly improving their quality, efficiency and performance. The new law on financing proposed by the Ministry strengthens the autonomy of higher education institutions, since these higher education institutions must set objectives with clear timetables, mainly in the light of the national strategy for higher education. An important part of this bill proposed by our Ministry is the reform of the special research funds accounts, the well-known PPE. Research, ladies and gentlemen, by nature, requires flexibility. This flexibility as much as the quality comes to bring the government back to higher education. So far, bureaucracy has characterized every stage of research, costing researchers valuable time. The conduct of quality research is necessary to have our universities a strong presence at international level, since the global rating indicators are based on the research track, beyond the quality characteristics that ETH, the new authority, will upgrade. It is no coincidence that only three Greek universities are in the general classification in the first five hundred worldwide, the National Kapodistrian, Aristotle and the National Technical University. Some evaluation categories concern the extroversion of universities, excellence, quality criteria relating to equality, conditions of teaching and others. This is what comes to improve the Ministry of Education. However, important scientists are in our country, ladies and gentlemen, where if opportunity and opportunities were to be given, they could make a decisive contribution to the better evaluation of our universities. We believe that the draft legislation under discussion contributes in this direction, namely rationalisation of funding, more objectively distributed spaces, with the ultimate result that the highest intellectual institutions are upgraded. I urge you to support this bill, which makes a decisive contribution to the progress of higher education in Greece and to the development of science, through research, since Socrates "education, just like a fertile land, brings all the good things". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u103	Mr Gikas Stefanos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the catastrophic Gavroglou law, we have very pleased to see this law lodged in the House today, which, in short, is trying to upgrade higher education, adopting best practices from abroad and doing our universities, higher education institutions, worthy of foreign affairs, so that we hope in a few years to compete with these institutions. There are several provisions and innovations in this bill. Let me briefly mention - of course other colleagues have said it, but I also think it is crucial to say it - on three issues of which the bill contains. A National Higher Education Authority, as it is called, which replaces the principle that has been voted on by the previous government, which is the principle of assurance and certification of quality in higher education, the ADI, which, in bad faith, could not stand up to the circumstances, did not satisfy the reasons why it was established. The responsibilities of this national authority are therefore enriched in three very important areas: strategic planning, financing of higher education institutions and their evaluation. In particular, the Higher Council of the National Authority is recommending to the Minister of Education a four-year national strategy programme for higher education, which is the first time being done. It also recommends the establishment, merger, abolition of school departments, universities, monitoring - and this is very important - the transition of graduates to the labour market, proposing proposals to ensure high quality in higher education, but also, of course, dealing with the allocation of the annual grant of higher education institutions. In the financing of HEIs, an important innovation is taking place, 80% will now be distributed on the basis of objective criteria, while the remaining 20% is linked to the Foundation's quality indicators. It is therefore possible for educational institutions to be the incentive to draw on these resources, to improve the areas of research, extroversion and, of course, the quality and effectiveness of education. Another point I would like to make, which is very important, is the specific accounts of research funds. I remember when the Minister received me, I had visited her in her office and brought her a request from the professors of the Ionian University, who, as you know, are in Corfu, transferring this very thing, namely that this system that was in place could not be properly promoted by research and programmes and asked for this great bureaucracy to cease. With this in mind, then, the draft law and the provisions which it contains are actually doing: it is limited, I shall say, to say, that any bureaucratic struggling which has made it difficult for the implementation of research projects and programmes. Thus, among other things, the budget for each project or programme will be self-evident and distinct from the budget for the remaining projects, while for the multi-annual projects it will be summarised and there will be no individual allocation of funds in the years. That's very helpful. Briefly, there is greater flexibility in the functioning of the PPE-DEPs in order to facilitate the work of researchers, but without neglecting - and this is very important - transparency and accountability. I would like to say a word about the suspension of the thirty-seven divisions, which has been so mentioned in Rule 33. These sections were established on SYRIZA, but without having precedented their mandatory assessment by the previous independent authority, the IPIP. There have been no feasibility studies, as important, and, of course, their necessity and viability has never been established. Because they touch too many areas, quite rightly in this bill we say that they are being suspended until the new independent authority, after assessing all the parameters and factors, decides whether or not to function. A word about Article 50. I think that since 2005, by a directive of the European Union, foreign graduates, recognised by IATP, have been provided for in a European Union directive to be able to take part in IATP tests. For four years the SYRIZA government has allowed this to exist. Just before the elections, apparently for tiny reasons, the law abolished this process. I think that our Government and the Ministry of Education are also reintroducing it for the sake of the European Union, but also for the sake of fairness. In conclusion, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a bill that promotes higher education, follows good practice abroad, and I am sure that after a few years our universities will also be equal in the research field that, unfortunately, we have not had the opportunity. That is why we are of course voting in favour of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u105	Thank you. Mrs Malama has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by making a statement. The New Democracy, as it states in every opportunity itself, is owned by a revival syndrome - I would say - of the memorials in education. Its ideological core is the underfunding of public education and, of course, the favours of individuals, colleges, schoolchildren and private education providers as a whole. The current government does not see any problem of underfunding universities, it does not care if there is sufficient teaching and research staff in universities, it does not care about working relationships within higher education institutions, research infrastructures and student care. She is only interested in cutting down, punishing, evaluating and cleaning - the universities supposedly. In reality, the new government does not make any new idea of education, simply returns to the memorandum to promote private education at the expense of the public. This bill is obviously not a reformist section, as the majority colleagues say in the majority, it simply renames already existing bodies, such as the authority that assesses public universities and which changes a name from the Assurance and Certification Authority to Higher Education at the National Higher Education Authority. This rename is obviously dictated by the need to manipulate the independence of the government, to appoint a new administration to it and to control it by the government. But what will this principle do? Nothing new. He will simply assess the universities on criteria to be set by the Minister of Education himself, as referred to in Article 16(2)C of the bill and apply a punishing assessment, cutting 20% of funding to those institutions that do not fall under the Minister's criteria. What will happen to any institutions that do not come to the Minister's office? They won't receive 20% of their funding very simple. If this is not the worst form of partying of universities, then what is it? It claims the leadership of the Ministry of Education that the evaluation will be external and objective as it is based on quantitative indicators such as student graduation and labour market absorption. In this way, of course, the well-known neoliberal corporation opens up to the abundance of regional universities, which are constantly undersettled and incomplete student-care infrastructures. Instead of increasing funding where these problems are identified, the Ministry will further intensify the gap through the closure of the funding canal and create public multi-speed universities at the expense of students, their families and general public education as a whole. And that is where this policy comes in to combine with the vision of the new government for 'free colleges', for private higher education, which is, in fact, trying to equilibrium with the question of professional rights with public health. With Article 50 of the bill, the headship of the Ministry of Education presents the professional equivalence of college degrees with the graduates of the public universities for those who want to work as teachers in public education. Bravo! In other words, a degree of Greek university or foreign university, recognized by the relevant public body, will no longer be required, according to Article 50 of the bill, to be professionally equivalent. Does the educational community welcome this provision? Do public universities welcome it? I was impressed by the behaviour of the leadership of the Ministry and the Members of the New Democracy at the hearing of the bodies on this subject in the Committee on Culture. Neither too little nor much have the representatives of the government and the majority have completely rebuked the prefectures, namely the professors of the university and the educators of the educational world who expressed their rageous opposition to this provision. Unfortunately, today's bill is not just ignoring the needs of public education, not only is it declining the course of thousands of scientists from the Greek universities, in other words, equilibriuming public universities with colleges, not just plunging HEIs into sub-financing, but turning us back to the darkest memorial days of education. The Greek universities need support and not punishment. Undetermined teachers need to protect their degrees and not to degrade them through the equation with the qualifications of colleges. Public education generally needs funding, from appointments, from strong structures, from strong public universities. The government has none of these in its priorities. On the contrary, it wants repression, underfunding, degradation, and that's what it's legislating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u107	The next speaker is Mrs Gara Anastasia from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today called upon to discuss a bill with provisions which touch the core of public education, another bill which does nothing but deregulation the landscape of education to the satisfaction of specific private interests. It adopts several extreme neoliberal policies, is levelling public education, is increasing inequality, is hampering our youth. The current leadership of the Ministry of Education is perfectly predictable and deeply ideological, as is customary, doing Mr Mitsotakis's words about a roller that will scan everything may not know exactly what proportion of GDP is spent in the field of education, but he knows very well to do what he needs to dismantle, attack and ultimately level public education in the country. So, in the above doctrine, under Article 33 of this draft law, the head of the Ministry of Education chooses to suspend indefinitely the operation of the thirty-seven new university departments. The operation of these sections was a proposal and was designed by the institutions themselves. The government does not respect our own universities, which often cut off when they go on the list of European worthwhile universities. The prior leadership of the Ministry of Education had already started operation. But you, Mr Ministers, come to end these sections indefinitely, because your only goal is to reduce and reduce - and I say again - public education. And you do this at a time when, for the Democritus University of Thrace, you are completely indifferent, because the Democritus University of Thrace had decided to set up new departments, realistic proposals, necessary proposals, especially for the university itself, but also for our local society. These proposals were accepted, they were adopted by the previous government, but again you reject them. Of course, all the above do not come like lightning in hunger. Within six months of your administration you have already made it possible to abolish the two-year vocational training programmes for PES graduates to perhaps direct students to private IEKs. After all, we know that several times their students have been treated as customers and not as students with rights in public education. You have already abolished the free access of students to higher education by invoking excellence. With Article 16 - I continue - in this draft law you are putting a bomb on the foundations of all the institutions by reducing the funding by 20% by a cover even in European practical methods of evaluation, which, with an alibi of invoking excellence - has a clear punishment and authoritarian character - you are proposing substantial measures that will enhance and broaden the disparities between Greek universities, students and teachers and it is certain that it is, above all, the institutions of the region that will ultimately pay the Marble from the cuts. With this anti-educational and punishing arrangement you drive public universities to private bodies to cover basic services and with mathematical accuracy you will force sections either shrink or close. If there's a cut for a year I wonder how the universities will get back on their feet so that they can claim the extra 20% lost last year? Ladies and gentlemen, the most obscene, however, of the most extreme neoliberal in this draft law, is the recognition of the diplomas of colleges and institutions abroad as equals of Greek public universities by accepting them from the ASP and even without any prior decision or examination by the IATAP. Bypass Article 16 of the Constitution, since you were unable to revise it during the revision of the Constitution. You directly hit the graduates of the Greek universities, the servants of teachers, the thousands of undetermined assistant teachers, who run every year in the most distant parts of the country to teach, and you come and put out the window or door, I'd better say, the graduates with doubtful qualifications and levels of private colleges in our educational system to teach our children. With this provision, the Mitsotakis Government is improper for the new generation, it does not recognize the sacrifices and labors of young children, it proves that for the government that invokes excellence, it is not excellence that the highest degrees of admission to higher education are not the trouble of our children, but it is excellence for them that one has to spend several thousand euros to buy a degree from an unknown college. This message is being sent to teachers, students to all young people that you, even in the field of education, do not recognize students, teachers, teachers, see only customers and numbers. Who happens to have a thick wallet can be hired to the position of the child of a folk, a middle family who has fought all his life in order to become an educator. In other words, you're saving the excellence of pocket and money. Unfortunately, you are bringing a provision that is embarrassing and, incidentally, Minister, there are currently reports in the press that say that the opinion of the European Commission, which you have invoked, has nothing to do with what you have said. I would ask you finally to clarify what is going on. Does the Commission's opinion of 4016/19 indicate the educational sector or not? Is it your pure political choice? In any case, of course, we are calling for the withdrawal of the shameful provision which equates the degrees of Greek public universities with them of undeniable content and college quality. We were told by all the institutions, OLEME, ILO, OELE, federations, and also by the confederations of several universities in demanding the withdrawal of this provision, and at the moment our fellow citizens are protesting out on Syntagma Square in requesting the withdrawal of this provision. We are therefore also calling for its withdrawal, because by voting against this bill we will not allow the deterioration of the Greek public university and our educational system, we will not allow the repatriation of the new generation, we will not allow the return to the public system and the public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u109	Mrs Anagnastopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, when we discussed the bill, the Minister said that Article 16 of the draft law that we are debating here today is an ideological part. We have heard that from colleagues in the New Democracy. To what is this ideological incision? It is one thing that the State will gradually withdraw from its obligation to finance public education, above all higher education. So what is the right of all citizens and the state's obligation is done with Article 16 negotiating paper, with the tool of evaluation, which the highest authority, the NSAE, as it is called, will do, which works on the hard core of public education policies. It is not the ADI - Mr Vernadakis very nicely explained it - in the hard core of public education. Unfortunately, I am not reminded of any modern European state. Let me take an example, apart from the United Kingdom that we have seen how public education has arrived. It reminds me of Turkey's respective higher education council, to which many of the evils of higher education are being charged there. I don't want to expand. But what does such an instrument mean to evaluate? And what's he hiding? And what obsession is it that the Minister and the New Democracy have personally? She's loyal to what was opened by her predecessor, Mrs Diamantopoulou, in this category, that our universities are bullets of anxieties. So they need someone above, an inspector, who should control what is happening to these bullets of anxiety. I don't know what the Minister has to do with the universities. However, I would like to ask the Members of the New Democracy who are also university. Aren't we ashamed in this Chamber of talking about universities which are not being evaluated and of university students who are not being evaluated? Aren't we ashamed? I am ashamed to be part of this House and to hear such things and not be able to defend the people who are much more appreciated than anyone else and the institutions that are constantly being evaluated. So another point is all this: State withdrawal, underfunding, which is already there. Ten years of crisis, universities barely cover their operating expenses. I want someone to answer, if possible the Minister. What does 20% of public funding mean by evaluation? Annual? After four years? And what happens in the intervening period? How can universities function? You're all yelling to go up on the international rankings, and so on. The most important criteria are: staffing, how many LAG members exist and the infrastructures that exist. Tell me: Did you have any care to serve higher education institutions in need of people? From the first attempts we have made systematically, we have been proclaiming new posts and not only for subscribing, but also for the great young scientists we have and have not found jobs in the universities. So that's the first. It is an obsession to slowly withdraw the public from this great obligation. The second obsession - huge obsession - and really contradictory - is that we were listening to a Minister, which, when the New Democracy was in the office opposition and as the head of department, was shouting from morning to night that "our children are leaving abroad and why we don't do private universities, etc.''.'. And when new departments or schools are being created with call decisions - I should like to remind you here that this NCAE really undermines the democracy and self-interest of universities, and if there is a counterpart, let me tell him, I have not heard him so far - there the Ministry comes and says that they are'suspended'. They'll be re-examined - it says - these thirty-seven sections. If they're re-examined, I want to reexamine the Law School of the University of Patras, among the other ones that are suspended. I get to Article 50, because unfortunately I don't have time here. Article 50 does not only equal college degrees to public universities. We don't have an equation just down. Mr. Stylianides, we have the true dictatorship, not the mediterranean dictatorships, the dictatorships of uncontrolled and the dictatorship of private colleges. The IOTAP was founded - read when the IATAP was founded, then it was called the COURT - precisely so that academic qualifications can be controlled. And now there is a provision which, not only equates to public universities downwards, does not at all control academic qualifications. But there is another big hit there. There is in the educational world itself, not because there will be so many people in unemployment, not because their degrees and the labors of a lifetime are degraded and humiliated, but something else is done. You treat teachers as third-class employees: “Can they teach skills?” Like skills and education are playmobil. As if there is no need for a whole world of educators and teachers so that the teacher can function. I would like to ask you: Where would this country be after ten years of crisis if we did not have these poorly paid teachers in public schools, where you now impose not only the dictatorship of moderates, the dictatorship of nonexistent ones! I'll close by saying one thing. Your programme is neoliberal - we know - with a provincialism, which is unprecedented. Three hierarchs! I won't say anything else. The fact that religious consciousness must be - I am referring to Article 16 - must be a Orthodox categorisation we understand that from the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u111	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u112	But I want to say one last word. The holiday's not lazy. Not only is it lazy. The Church itself, the priests, etc., in the Ottoman Empire when there was a constitution in 1908 made demonstrations about the establishment of religious holidays. They never thought she was lazy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u113	Mr Christos Giannoulis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, I decided not to take the floor in the debate on the education bill, because I am sure that in SYRIZA we are framed by excellent academic teachers and teachers, who have perhaps been the most important stage of evaluation within the Greek universities, which is love, respect and acceptance by students as university teachers. However, while observing for a long time the Minister of Education has been immersed or in her guilt or in her mobile phone, in contrast to Mr Stylianides or Mrs Kefalianidou, who, from their own personal presence, seems to be truly interested in the public university, I would like to ask this, rather than ask, but reward Mrs Kerameos, because she is really consistent in a line which was being pro-electioned and followed by dogmatically. The problem is not how to strengthen public universities, the question is how to strengthen private institutions - I do not know what to say as a definition - universities, intermediaries, graduates' intermediaries, which lead to a professional career? But you heard Mrs. Anagnostopoulos, who is one of the academic teachers, a teacher whom students respect and love. This can also be certified in the field of action, which is universities, rather than closed party offices, those that produce over-aged hospital governors or double-crossed post-counselors - and by retired and retired. There you can, really, see how the evaluation is done and with what data. So Mrs Anagnostopoulos said - and quite rightly so - that in all this grid you are trying to build around public education, it seems that you do not respect one of the protagonists in this chain, the university teachers. And it is your right to do so, since you have the political arrogance of a strong majority. You know, however, children have a very hard way of expressing the truth, such as the truth expressed by Antonis, who is studying in the First High School of Thessaloniki, a relatively poor area. He dreams of going in a positive direction, but until this time we're talking about chemistry, he hasn't entered his class, Minister. As much as you look for "Google" or other search engines, you will see that the Vineyards have not pressed the chemist's foot to teach Antonis, who in two years wants to test his skills in public higher education, in the positive direction. I want to ask you something else if you're residents of this country. At the time you want to equate the diplomas of private colleges almost with public higher education degrees, have you heard of graduates who are acquired from foreign universities citizens, whose language is not even able to whisper it? Have you heard about the postgraduate from Bulgaria, which citizens who not only speak the language - and I am not talking about international universities or international departments that you could tell me that they are foreign languages, are in English - but perhaps their owners don't know and where the neighbouring country is? All of these have been introduced by the threat of penalties, because they are penalties in relation to the funding of public education institutions. You are, indeed, consistent with your goals, because they were not programme commitments. It was another paradoxical attempt, it was another of the lies that, unfortunately, while singing them, they were very intense in public opinion and audience, one of your many lies, which is why you are no longer recognized by the political morale to attempt and appear as defenders of the public interest. Because with a series of decisions in other areas of politics, executive power and legislative work, you have, in a very short time, only seven months - lost this political moral right. You know very well that it is infinite, multiple and surprisingly infinitely the examples you have managed to create in these seven months. I would like to refer specifically to two cases, to which other colleagues have referred. In fact, the pain you were experiencing before July 7 for educational immigrants, for young children abroad, was unbelievable. It reached the limits of hypocritical perfection. One cannot compete or suspect that this is not a good act, but a bad hypocrisy. And what do you do now, not personally, another colleague of yours, a great perpetrator of political fraud and lie, Minister of Labour? Five and a half thousand scientists, with very high formal qualifications, 10% of whom are doctoral holders, sent for the first time the Greek public administration, the Greek public administration and not just, with wonderful results. With your obsessed and dogmatism for everything in the public, you choose to throw them on the road and set up another communal ward, with the five hundred young people who will return from abroad. I could say more, but I would like not to omit, in the few seconds left, to refer to the PES. It is not exactly your responsibility, but I would like to refer to the teachers of the OAED apprenticeship schools. I do not know if you know that there are teachers with the obligations of secondary and even higher education in the OAED apprenticeship schools, with the same obligations, but who do not have the right to submit their applications as experienced teachers to the new structures you are preparing. I don't want to talk about the special treatment. I imagine that must fall within the limits of your political emotiveness. We said about the chemical missing in the Vineyards, but special lawsuit what can I say? I wonder how is this mirror of conscience that you are avoiding? But you know, Mrs. Kerameau, what won't you avoid? You will not avoid being the second Minister, after Vassilis Kontogiannopoulos, who will probably see the way out, not because you are taking opposition fire from us, but because you will not manage to gain the love of two key players and the trust of the educational system in this country, students, students and teachers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u115	Mrs. Kallipe Vetta from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of Education, which we are debating today in plenary, comes into addition to a chain of legislation conducive to the ideological body of the government, inextricably neoliberalism, subjection to private interests, lack of consensus and understanding, indifference to social achievements. The government's decision to support private interests has already appeared from the early days. The abolition of the General Secretariat of Research and the transfer of the object to an economic ministry, the Development Ministry, expresses the willingness to subject research to market jewellery, without taking into account its independent scientific and educational character. With the dissolution of the PPP, the Quality Assurance and Certification Authority, a long, independent and tested institution and the establishment of the National Higher Education Authority, the independence of the institution is abolished, as the supervisory role of the respective ministers has been exhausted in the control of the lawfulness of decisions, and from now on, according to the legislative text, the Minister will have full control, therefore the high supervision of all decisions. There are also many features that highlight the false modernisation you are engaged in, such as the prerequisite for the Ministerial Council's decision defining members, the possibility of proposing the total or partial suspension of the funding of an EIT - and I wonder how ruthless constitutionally this provision can be - the punishment of universities, particularly the regions where a substantial amount of public funding is cut off, of 20% if they do not meet the criteria you set out. However, for the economy of time I will make a special reference to just two issues. The first relates to Article 33, which abolishes the thirty-seven university departments, six of which were on the way to work at the University of Western Macedonia. For the credibility of the political system, let me not comment on the fact that on the Ministry's official page part had been originally included, a sample of the handshake with which you operated. And I'm talking about the Tourism Department of the Ionian University that has a hundred students. However, it cannot be taken into account that the Ministry ignored first of all all the students who would like to study for free a specific scientific object, as well as the local society, of western Macedonia in this regard, which, for another matter, after the desecrated and succumbing, is informed of the government's decisions on the channels and newspapers. And finally, he ignored the competent university bodies which, according to the legislation, have a decisive role in setting up the departments. The authoritarian, I'd say, in his majesty! Instead of seeking consents and discussions, costing the new departments, examining curricula and the hierarchy of educational and social needs, new university departments as well as their future students are given a gift to private colleges, as gifts to the speculative pursuits of their owners. No paradox for us who are aware of your pursuits. However, with all this you are revealing to the Greek society, whose trust you will lose very quickly. With regard to the other issue contained in the bill - and many colleagues have spoken - the substantial circumvention of Article 16 of the Constitution with the performance of professional rights to graduate colleges, I do not want to go far on it, I just want to make a special reference to something that the government is misleadingly using as a defence of its initiatives. The Minister is constantly returning, saying that there is a European directive to promote this regulation and that we have adopted it for four years. The real difference lies in the fact that you're opening the way to public education for graduate colleges with questionable scientific credibility, and we've ruled out it from the outset. You are giving professional rights and access to the public sector, while we have - and at very difficult times, remember - the right to formulate national policy on education against the pursuits, international or domestic, of private education. One last thing. I wonder where all those who blamed SYRIZA for the abolition of the '10' basis for admission to universities. All those who were cut off for the downgrading of universities, why aren't they now seeing these candidate students headed to expensive colleges so that they could study and obtain business supplies? The conclusions of yours. In conclusion, I would like to address both those who are present but above all those who are listening outside the Chamber, especially those who are protesting today in the square. Public education as much as some are being supervised and undermining it constantly, as is the case with health and infrastructure, has strong support in Greek society. It has demonstrated over time that it supports scientific progress, trains and shields the new generation and contributes to social and economic development. I would like to assure her that she will continue to do so, to the persuasiveness of many, and from this attack she will come stronger thanks to the support of teachers, students and her officials in all levels, in all areas, but mainly thanks to the support of the Greek society, which credits her to a large extent the fundamental changes that have taken place in the country over the last few decades, which are not due to the dubious quality colleges that you are being donated to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u117	Mr.Himaras Themistoklis from New Democracy, followed by the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Konstantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we often talk about growth, investment, taxation, economics, but we forget what is on the basis of a successful political and economic system. This is no more than education. It's the alpha and the omega, the foundation stone. It is no coincidence that the countries which have achieved and maintained high growth have invested primarily in the quality of the education provided. The universities have shown the comparative advantages of the place through research, and the state has exploited them by investing politically and also resources on them, and that is so simple. Higher education in a country is an indicator of social, economic and political development and progress. The bill before us today intervenes on key issues of higher education. It goes on to set up an independent authority responsible for formulating the national strategy for higher education. At the same time it solves years of problems of the PPEC by creating a more flexible and adaptable operating framework, addressing the increased bureaucracy resulting from the problematic implementation of public accounting. At international level, the idea of university quality evaluation came from it precisely in the need to link them to the market and the sources of funding. In the United States, there is a voluntary evaluation programme for universities, while in many European countries such as England, the Netherlands and Sweden there are institutionalised independent authorities responsible for the evaluation of institutions. International evaluation body Times Higher Education ranks leading universities in Europe based on the quality of teaching. The evaluation focuses on subjects of study, teaching staff, quality of the institution's services, opportunities to develop skills, research staff productivity and others. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that in Greece yesterday in many areas of public administration, operation in fact of the state and its structures, the word has remained unknown. And I understand it, the truth is in this Chamber today with the posts of SYRIZA colleagues I have heard since the morning. In particular, in higher education evaluation is a prerequisite for ensuring rational development. Today we are responding to the needs of the times by directly linking the evaluation of universities with part of the state funding they receive. This is an internationally tested measure, and not a punishing process, as you have described it poorly, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA. The absence of central planning and the opportunity, almost a customer way of doing things, let us tell the truth, have always been the path of higher education. The recent provisions of the Gavroglou Law through which thirty-seven new school departments were set up without any planning have best highlighted the need for an independent authority, a authority that will provide scientific and academic documentation on the map of the country's higher education. The National Higher Education Authority set up by the bill to be passed serves this very purpose. Our government stands beyond and far from the micro-political interests and logic that each village and TEI wanted, every city and university. The need for rational planning emerged to the fullest extent during the implementation of the Gavroglou Law. I am reminded of the time-consultation between Minister and local bodies on the request for the creation of an independent University of Central Greece. It is worth mentioning that my region is the only region in the country that does not have an autonomous university. In order to strengthen our proposal at the time for the establishment of an autonomous university, the local authorities, namely the Regional Association of Municipalities and the Region of Central Greece, have commissioned a committee of worthy scientists of the place to prepare a documented proposal, which would be put to the Minister of Education. While the institutions of Central Greece were trying to remain united in demanding a common goal, which would serve the self-evident, that is to say, that Central Greece would also have its own autonomous high-tertiary education pole, at the same time the Ministry of Education attempted and succeeded, I dare say, isolate self-government and MPs, to break up the then joint struggle and distribute the existing departments of the Central Greece TEI in three AEIs in Athens and one in Thessaly. I am simply referring to this as an example, ladies and gentlemen. That was his logic yesterday, which I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. That was the methodology for the development of higher education in our country. That is what we are changing, and this bill will be passed on. And to stand up to the essence of the example of Central Greece, we agree that it is not possible for Central Greece to be the only region without an autonomous university structure. It is also a given fact that the development of Europe's strong regions has relied on the functioning of universities operating at their place. It is therefore a fair request. The question, however, is who or who, and above all, on what criteria, will consider the viability of the proposal. Local bodies may say what they politically believe. But are they objective? Is it the job of local bodies, MPs or ministers to strategically direct the development of universities in our country? No, ladies and gentlemen. And that is not what I think we should all say in this Chamber today. For these reasons, for my part, I welcome the Government's proposal to establish the Independent Higher Education Authority, because I am sure it will review the need for an autonomous university structure in the Region of Central Greece, based in Lamia. Because it is our duty to prevent the evasion of minds - not only from the large cities abroad - but also from the region to the large metropolitan centres. It is our duty to look after all the regions of Greece, especially when they have comparative advantages but also sufficient human resources, and our debt will serve to the full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-three students and students and three educational sessions from the General School of Xylokastro, (first Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Constantopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issues, problems and, in particular, strategic planning and the functioning of education require dialogue, praiseworthy ears, compositions and consents. Convergences with dialogue are therefore being sought, not tolerant of guilds and interest services. Consensus to enhance public free education and support for teachers at all levels are sought. Compositions with the student, student, cognitive research and social expectations are sought. Convergences are being pursued for the quality improvement of study in higher education and their connection, of course, with the labour market. And finally, brave funding and funds are needed for the operation of schools, universities, with a view, of course, to their economic self-reliance. You know, Minister, and Minister, that many schools have taken on symbolic occupations, because it is not enough to finance heating. You also know that even today, despite the large number of recruitments, there are gaps in schools and a lack of teaching staff in universities. You also know, Minister, that INEDIVIM is having a hard time paying the cleaners. You know that the EEAC can still not proceed to the examinations of the professional rights of graduates of the IEC. You also know that the same is true in the examinations for the Register of Certified Teachers. You know, of course, Minister and Minister, that IATAP is holding a hostage, I would say, thousands of graduates, graduates and doctors, who are still waiting for parity and correspondence and, of course, for that to claim the right to work. I am sure, Minister, that you are aware of all this, as your predecessors knew. And that's not only caring for your own but it's caring for your predecessors as well. As Delmuzus said, however, "the concern of the child if you feel it once will accompany you forever." This notion, Minister, is not, of course, dealt with without planning, without planning and without resources. You spoke of your initiative, Minister, to table a proposal to the Prime Minister for education finances. Of course, you thought about it and we don't disagree. Here I would remind you of the Committee of Experts set up by the previous SYRIZA - ANEL Government for the finances of education, which you, too, have voted for and participated together and whose work was limited to the beginning of the operation, I would say, in the presence of the then Prime Minister of Mr Tsipras. What's her luck? Nobody knows. Rather, I would say, it was also the result of the dear tactics of the previous government to promise everything inexpensive and, of course, to implement the predetermined ones. In conclusion, therefore, I have to say this. It is not important to set up committees but to operate them. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the policy of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL in the field of education has created huge problems, and I would say, at all levels. The redesign of the map of higher education and university administrations, the changes in the universal examinations and the way of access to universities, the changes in the structures of administration and supervision of education, the abolition of the School Counsel, the election of executives against selection and, finally, the system of appointments and the deterioration of OSHs, brought a new order of things, which served obsessed and idealism, instead of innovation and advancement. I will also say once again how methodically but also brutally Mr.4009/2011 of the PASOK government, the Diamantopoulou Act, which had been passed by Parliament's 4/5 and, yet, one night it was abolished. In other words, a large-scale consensus from the 4/5 of the House has been thrown away in the basket of unpopulars and there has been a dissolution in the universities at both administrative and scientific level. Let me here mention the constant crime committed in higher education in Western Greece, in particular in the prefecture from which I come and I am elected, the Prefecture of Aetolakarania. Let me remind you that in 2012, the University of Western Greece was abolished by the law of Arvanitopoulos, based in Agrini. In 2015, with a great struggle, we canceled the transfer of the three university departments from Agrini to Patras in Greece. And finally in 2019 with Law 4610, the University Departments of Agrinio were abolished and hostage. The Agricultural School, which was set up, with two sections in Agrini and three in Messolonghi, is either suspended or partly in sub-optimal. And we come to today, where I would officially say in this draft law, under Article 33, that the Department of Agricultural Biotechnology, based in Agrini, which is part of the Agricultural Sciences School, is suspended. These decisions - and this one - are totally opposed to us. We have tabled to you, Madam Minister, legislative regulation, our rapporteur, Mrs Kefalidou, has been mentioned in detail, which concerns the parts that have been written for the first year and which are being suspended today. We invite you to accept it. However, I must stress the dubiousness of decision-making, especially from the Ministry of Education. To come to the Minister of Gavroglou in 2019 and remind me that on one night the Department of Cultural Environment and New Technologies of Agrinio was abolished, a section with three hundred undergraduate, seven hundred graduates, seventeen members of the CPI and a postgraduate programme in operation, and even here the oxymoil is that this department was certified by the ADI in January 2019 and was abolished by Mr.Gavroglou in May 2019. However, I should like to inform you, Mr President-in-Office, that this department is in occupation, and indeed I brought it to the House as a matter of discussion. I urge you today to act on his establishment. After all, Mr. Digalakis, you have responded positively since there is naturally a recommendation from the Senate of the University of Patras or from the new You can replace the IPPC, i.e., the ETHAE. Ladies and gentlemen, one is the conclusion, déjà vu, betrayal. One dissolves by establishing - you see SYRIZA - ANEL - and the other cancels by suspending, you see New Democracy. The conclusions, then, are yours. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already pointed this out in the past - the Ministry of Education's bills manage to monopolize the debate and, indeed, the articles which are not purely the motto of the legislator. The same happens now. Within the other provisions of the draft law on the National Authority of Higher Education, IAEA, EBRD and other provisions, Article 50 simply singles out the debate. It triggers reactions, creates a lot of upset at the level of our country's education. Already with references to the committee, the debate on Article 16 of the Constitution has been resumed. I would say "the parent and the born do not retire." Ladies and gentlemen, Article 50 affects in a negative way and, indeed, decisively - I would say - today and tomorrow of education. It reduces teachers' scientific, pedagogical and pedagogical status. We are all aware that colleges in our country have been formed in the context of training, and nothing has to do with general education. It is not possible, therefore, to turn them into academic equivalents of universities. You move on to academic recognition of foreign colleges beyond professional recognition. This poses a major problem with the quality of the education provided in our country. The scientific and pedagogical field of graduate teachers is downgraded. It is no accident - I would say - that so far college programmes have not had purely the branches of teachers. Now I am very afraid that there will be a production industry of teachers, kindergartens, mathematical philosophers, and that - as you can see - we are fighting hard. The PASOK governments supported the scientific and professional development of teachers, made areas with the establishment of educational departments and the institution of the school advisor. We are therefore opposed to such legislation that overthrows the labour, scientific and educational status in our country. What do we want? We want public education, free education with equal opportunities for education and access, inclusiveness and class divisions. That is why we do not support Article 50, and we invite you, Minister, to withdraw it. You are changing the charter of education in terms of free market and speculation. We, as a movement of Change - PASOK, have formulated a progressive political plan for education and education. We therefore call on you to have an open dialogue and consultation, so that we can all discuss together in this Chamber without prerequisites, without humiliation, so that we can finally stop 'tracking' in public education and education, so that a national education plan can be established. That is the demand of society. That is a demand for the citizens. This is a demand from the new generation, who took her garment and left abroad. It is this Brain Drain, which we must - everyone guarantee - become Brain Gain. This generation that will have to come back, will be the generation that will change Greece and that should be the bet of all of us. Finally, Minister, an amendment on equal treatment was tabled by the Change Movement - I would say - to restore and address the problems caused by the floods and disasters in Patras. Here with the amendment we are asking for? We call for the restoration of injustice, so that all students benefit from access to higher education, regardless of where they were found after the disaster, that is, whether they went to schools in neighbouring municipalities or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Sarakiotis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the development of higher education structures, their decline and their punctuation. From an educational policy geared to respect for the rule of law and the constitutional provisions on public and free education, the commercialisation and abuse of all democratic conquests. The present government's policy on the sensitive area of education could be concentrated on these two proposals. And in order not to forget, today's bill has already preceded the vague suspension of the free two-year vocational education programmes, the abolition of the Patras School of Law, the abolition of university asylum, and the subsequent follow-up according to the announced students' write-offs and the reduction in admissions. Ladies and gentlemen, many are the educational reforms of the post-multiple period, which concerned all levels and changed others to a lesser extent and others to a greater extent the naturality of the country's educational system. No one, however, dared to promote his ideas so obsessedly against any concept of respect for the Constitution. How else could one characterize the undermining of the self-interest of universities, which is the foundation of their operation? How can we comment on the financing measures of the HEIs with a view to expanding the clientele of private colleges? It is clear and sure that the depreciation of the public university is purely for this purpose. And your thinking is very simple: Since you have failed to abolish Article 16 through the top process of the Constitutional Review, you are now coming to abolish it in an indirect way but essential way. Is that your respect for the institutions, the Constitution, the parliamentary procedures? With the same perseverance, suspend the operation of thirty-seven new departments at eleven universities in the country, judging in advance that they are inappropriate and limited dynamic or are subject to a low resonance on the labour market. With this reason you have brought a counter-reform, indicating that you have only learned to abolish and destroy, not to create. I would like to focus on the abolition of the Department of Accountability at the University of Thessaly. This section is based in Lamia, a multi-faceted city with regard to higher education structures, since no one has forgotten the days of implementation of the famous "ATHENA" project in New Democracy again in 2013, which resulted in the abolition of the University of Central Greece. And we're wondering. Does a department of reasoning not respond to the needs of modern society and the labour market? Does international experience agree with you? According to Career Cast, the Labour Statistics Office of the United States Ministry of Labour, the profession of the censor was classified among the ten professions with the highest rate of employability, income and quality of work in the Western world. Whilst according to reports from “KATHEMERINI”, therapy is among the professions that will have increased demand in the years to come. In fact, these publications are also based on studies by some of you from McKinsey. At the same time, also, Greek institutes draw similar conclusions, noting, among other things, that graduates of dietary, literary, physiotherapy have better prospects. On the altar, however, a bankrupt idealism is not only sacrificed by scientific assumptions or other market considerations. The voice of the representatives of local government, I assure you, Minister, and fellow Members, that they do not belong to SYRIZA, is well ignored. More specifically on 4-12-2019 is the resolution of the municipal council of the Municipality of Lamites, which is signed by the overwhelming majority of the factions against the decision of the Minister of Education. On November 15, 2019, we have public statements by Central Greece, Mr. Fani Spanou, at a regional television station, which I quote: "The suspension of the two plus parts is obviously disturbing, obviously it should not be done, obviously it is something that clearly finds us opposing. So this is something that we are clearly standing across." Minister, your argument in favour of the suspension of university departments you see that it cannot convince your own executives, mayors and districtlors either. So don't get tired of your rhetoric in order to convince the Vice-Population MPs that they are correct. Your idealism is not disturbed by anything either scientific assumptions or by market projections or by the appeals of the self-government. I have actually heard previous Members of the Synod coming from the Region of Central Greece speak today about the establishment of the University of Central Greece, based obviously on Article 34 of the SYRIZA bill of law, No. 4589/2019, and I was surprised by hypocrisy. Today that they will vote for the abolition of four sections in Central Greece, they come and present to us a vision of the creation of the University of Central Greece. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, stop dismantling, undermining and destroying. You propose, consult and form the basis of the Constitution and the acquis of the previous years. Higher education does not have room for new drawbacks as it paid for the events of the period 2000-2014. The government's main expressor against young people so far was Mr Brutsis, the instigator of the underpaid wage, who is now deaf in the calls of thousands of young scientists who are commanding critical areas of public administration. Don't try to imitate him, Minister. Finally trust the young people of the country, stop demarcating their future in terms of micro-groups and conservatives, who have led thousands of them to flee abroad over the past decade. Let us not return to these days and decide that the only way out is to support every sacrifice of research and teaching altars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u123	I too, Mr Colleague, for you to hold on to your time. Mr. Avramakis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the leadership of the Ministry of Education and of the Minister of Education, Mr. Kerameos, is both inconsistent and ideological. Very recently in an interview in a friendly environment in "SKAI" in repeated calls of journalist Kambourakis about what the funds and funding of education from the budget are, he avoided answering on several occasions. He has not even known that 2.88% of the GDP allocated to education, although he wanted to convince us that he has an integrated education plan. Of course, it is not only inconsistent but also deeply ideological in its position and attitude. This is, of course, about the general government's policy on public universities. The New Democracy's position on the circumvention of Article 16 with regard to public universities and its willingness to go ahead with the establishment of private universities is known. Today, with the bill deposit, it takes a step further. It goes on to establish private colleges, and even by choosing that graduates of these colleges can be appointed in public education. This, of course, causes very clear reactions to both the educational community and the student clubs. Three points in the bill that we can focus on. Firstly, it is the reduction of funding for higher education institutions. This is done through the evaluation that I will explain below. Second crucial point is the appointment of graduates from colleges in public education with any responses that this causes to the educational community and not just. And thirdly, the removal of the thirty-seven new departments which were designed by decisions of the universities themselves and designed by the SYRIZA Government, but the New Democracy goes ahead with the suspension of this decision. At the same time, we see that while choosing to fund the Boston Theological School and, as she says, to support the family - which we are not opposed to, but can be done in many ways - it does not choose to give these two million euros where they could go, in terms of the curriculum of fourteen universities of two years of study, to which some five hundred students would study each year. It is a policy that shows its class mark. Of course we were told that they would be provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but they did not tell us what funds. It is a question of Mr. Friends' timely question to Mrs. Kerameos. The government begins to reveal its plan to move to a dominant and market-oriented educational system. The private financial interests and their service are the main concern of the New Democracy, which progressively promotes a reform that significantly affects the interests of the overwhelming majority of the Greek people. The abolition of the Quality Assurance and Certification Authority in Higher Education and the creation in the place of the National Higher Education Authority is not just a way to get the Government out of an administration of an independent authority. The extension of the competences attempted, the transition of practical executive power to an independent authority such as the distribution of funding to the AITs and the design of the Academic Charter, aims at the full reform of higher education. The suspension of the thirty-seven new departments designed by the universities themselves and the SYRIZA and the Ministry of Education, which would meet the real needs of society and the economy, would provide a way out for thousands of young people who would like to acquire higher education, is done to serve the dogmas of the neoliberal government, creating practical customers for the private colleges of ambiguous academic value. The simultaneous recognition of college degrees without any academic criterion, without evaluation of the education they offer, through their simple interconnection with globally unknown academic institutions, the provision to their graduates of the right to be recruited even as teachers in public education and secondary education in conjunction with the formulated intention of self-financed educational institutions and units reveal your deep dissatisfaction with public education in the country. You are attempting an unprecedented overall state school deterioration at all levels. You are undermining the role of teachers and creating unnecessarily divisive logic across the whole range of education. The policy that you are specifically pursuing in education goes far beyond the mandate given to you by the Greek people. The new authority you set up will be suffocated by the Ministry of Education, which doubts its independence. The responsibility for allocating funding to the new authority is to avoid the government's political cost, in any case to reduce the funding of education and research. The award of the training responsibility of the academic state limits practically the autonomy of universities. The creation of a new principle entails the absence of our country from the European network of independent quality assurance authorities in education, since it is first necessary to consider whether NCAE will fulfil the criteria for participation in this network. The whole accession process may last for at least one year. But that's not just the problem with today's bill. You are attempting to link directly the financing of the HEI with the results of the evaluation of the HEIs. We all agree that there must also be evaluation at universities, they must be evaluated. We perhaps disagree in how we hierarchy the criteria, what each thinks is more important than the work offered by the universities. According to your plan, 80% of all the small-scale funding of HEIs will be provided on the basis of general criteria such as student numbers, the estimated annual cost of study per student for each curriculum, the duration of the curriculum, the size and geographical spread of the institution. The remaining 20% will be provided if the IMI meets the specific criteria, such as the quality and effectiveness of the educational process, the research activity, internationalisation, the connection to the labour market. Institutions that fail to meet these specific criteria will lose 20% of the funding allocated to other institutions, to those that achieve the objectives. The problems of this process you are bringing are too many. The first is that any schools that are not directly linked to the private labour market will lose much of the funding. The second is that all academic institutions will be required to compete in a specific competition where there will be a dominant model for curriculum programmes. There will be no differentiation and the Greek and very good academic Greek university will be forced to adapt to market conditions, with what this implies for scientific research and education in general. Institutions that do not meet your criteria will become more and more poor, thus either closing down or looking for other resources. In practice you will significantly reduce the number of students studying free of charge, reduce the number of departments operating in the region and reduce the training provided. Today you take the first step towards ruining one of the main goals of the Greek family, the possibility of getting their children higher education and a better life. The future you are preparing for the new generation is to give them the opportunity to have access to their education and living conditions. You want to completely denounce public education and you do so on the grounds that universities need to adapt and adapt their curriculum curriculum as far as the market is concerned. To close, in order not to 'eat' time, I have to say that a society, a state, is judged by ensuring its public social goods such as health and education. Access to public health and public education is a quality criterion for our democracy. Social cohesion is a coherent link for a society and a state that wants to respect itself and its citizens. In conclusion, I would like to say that you are the last in this Chamber to be entitled to speak of excellence. Now it's only like a bad-looking prank that sounds after the choices you made this whole six months in terms of staffing public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u125	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Voloudakis has the floor from New Democracy, and immediately thereafter Mrs Papapega from the JRC. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the passions of the Greek society that led to or even deepened the consequences of the crisis, and not only the crisis in its economic dimension, not only with regard to the economic crisis that we have experienced but also with regard to the institutional crisis, have to some extent their roots in what has been going on in the universities over the past decades. The university in the past was a place of social elevation. Children who did not have the means through their family could not have a lifestyle commensurate with their potential and desires and could have their way through the university. This used to slowly erase. And he began to erase under the influence of the ideas of the Left and is one of the interesting paradoxes of modern Greek history. The ideological hegemony of the Left has led to the deeper division between the social classes, because it has deprived children of the poorer families of the opportunity from the university to go forward and advance, while, of course, it cannot deprive the children of the wealthy families to go to a foreign university and then have a corresponding course in the rest of their lives. I believe that the downhill started with the 1982 framework law. Then he slowly began to infiltrate another spirit in the university. The concept of university as a place, above all, learning and research, as well as social elevation, began to retreat and the logic of the minor effort, the escalation, was invaded. The trade unions that dominated have made the idea that the degree is the right of anyone who enters the university and then the appointment is also the right of anyone who has a degree. He still infiltrated -- and that was the heaviest of everything -- the transaction. They were slowly trained by the young Greeks, our children in the period that began in those years, in the idea that they can exchange their political influence in exchange for some personal nature. You are not listening for the first time, ladies and gentlemen, on the left. Your trade union orders...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u127	For fifty years...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u128	You'll hear it, Mr. Philly. Both the days that you were dominating at the university and as a student, as far as I know, but also as far as...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u129	It's the first time you've heard it...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u130	I'll say what I want, Mr. Friend, and you'll hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u131	Please, Mr Colleague, limit yourself to your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u132	Roofets, ruffles...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Philie, do you hear for the first time that the trade union groups have had an influence on the universities with teachers to be treated favourably? Do you hear them for the first time? The laws you brought in and supported and the orders that dominated the universities, your own did that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u134	Who made the copies?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u135	I'm not questioning that... [[Noise in the Chamber]] No matter how much you yell, I'll say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u136	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u137	It's good to hear them because, you know, I have another very important news to tell you. What you guys here bring as my best revelations, that, you know, we want to connect the universities to the market, that we bring a hard assessment, all these things are no secret. That's our schedule. I have another news for you. These, you know, have been voted on by the Greek people, because what was once the field of your ideological hegemony has become a minority in which only marginal elements can be focused, those who have strengthened you in your efforts to abolish the other essential and related reforms, prevent the abolition of asylum. Several attempts have been made in the past by Marietta Giannakou and Anna Diamantopoulou to change the situation in universities. Today's draft law brings a systematic effort to address the problem as a whole in such a way that it also lays long-term foundations on it. Evaluation both within universities and between universities, comparison and evaluation, certification, self-government, linking funding to results, as happens all over the world. This is what Greek citizens want, they want their children to have access to education similar to that of children in all the advanced countries of the world. I wonder how all this fuss is made about linking financing to the results, when the percentage of funding linked to the results actually is 20%. 80% stays with the old criteria basically with the size of the university. Only for this 20% associated with the results, this whole fuss is caused. In my opinion, Minister, you should have more than 20% or, in any case, have an increase in this percentage over time. I have to say a few words about primary education, because there are problems of the past here and, of course, problems that have become worse, quite clearly, with the provision of the Gabroglou laws. I'm referring to gaps in primary education. In several schools in Chania, in Sfakia, in Paleochora, in Cantano, in Bukoulia, there are still gaps today and gaps in universally tested courses. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I may need more than half a minute. This has happened, despite the fact that there have been three waves of deputy recruitment and even local invitations have been made that have been made. Why has that happened? This has happened because it was abolished by regulation of Mr.Gavroglou as Minister of Education, both the adequate moleculosis for the remote schools and the penalty that existed for those who, while being recruited, refused the appointment. These must be brought back, Minister, immediately. And we're late for this. I am pleased to note that Article 58 provides, at least, for Special Action to restore the sentence, because it is not possible to refuse the appointment, that is to say, to go to school waiting for him to teach, and to create the need for a new notice and for children to stay without teachers. Minister, you do not have responsibility for this, and the Minister lacks responsibility, but we have said it outside the Step. We must definitely return these arrangements as soon as possible, so that there are also incentives and penalties for teachers for remote schools. Immediately, the gaps still exist, especially where there are gaps in the examinations of the pan-Hellenic classes, must be addressed to the fireworks and, in general, to the areas affected by natural disasters, where children have not learned their lessons correctly, to be treated favourably in the pan-Hellenic regions. That's all for now. I think that the bill is obviously a very important part of our education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u138	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mrs. Papariga, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u139	I'll repeat it. The Communist Party of Greece is radically opposed to the equivalence of the diplomas of private colleges, foreigners who exist in Greece or are abroad, with the graduates' degrees from the schools responsible for education in Greece, as well as with the opinion of who will be able to work in schools in music and artistic education, by bodies outside the jurisdiction and competence of the Ministry of Education. I would like to focus more on the key theme of the bill and related to the title 'Certification, Evaluation, Financing'. Of course, all the anti-grassroots measures, legislation, all the most aggressive of the peoples in general, are always decorated either by neutral phrases or phrases that are plausible. He tells you, why can't there be no evaluation at the universities? And make a parallel. What we've been living in the Middle East in recent years, how did they start? With the slogan for the democratisation of Arab regimes, with the "Arab Spring", which applauded all parties other than Laeken, to use the dear term when they address us, but excluding the JRC. This bill, indeed, consciously, is an option and I think it is in line with the character of the New Democracy and with what he said in the election. I don't think there's any diversion SYRIZA's looking for. It's a deep stab literally in the multi-trained body of education. And I would like to mention a few stabbings, essentially, that education has been accepted over time by governments with one goal, to engage more tightly, more systematicly, more thoroughly, education, so scientists and degrees, with market laws, with business groups. In 2005, with the Government of New Democracy and the Minister of Education Ms Giannakou became the famous IP, the evaluation-certification system. Mr. Vernardakis has now discovered that this system has a classic character. And by the way, because I cannot analyse it, I leave for the practical evaluations carried out by the Committee on Evaluations, which is now changing a name, to Greek universities, to see the class character. And this is last year's, it's neither 2005 nor 2011. It's during SYRIZA's term. I'm tabling them for the Minutes, because I can't analyze them. [[At this point, the Member, Alexandra Papaega, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Who are the previous stations that brought this bill? The fact is that all governments have delayed the action, because there were resistances from a part of the university and also from struggling students. 2005 is evaluation - certification, in which the soil is cultivated and to link with funding. In 2011 the Law of Diamantopoulou. In 2013, the law of Mr Arvanitopoulos that did not go ahead. He wanted to make mergers, but he hesitated to do so, because there were very great reactions. And the law comes, which I consider top in relation to what happened in '05, '11 and '13, by Mr. Gavroglou, the supremacy of the TEIs, the creation of schools of two-year-olds, three-year-olds, the integration of the TEIs into the HEIs. What's he creating? Diversification of schools, differentiation of degrees. It is purely classic and dictated by the market, as you say, and mainly by industrialists, shipowners, etc. It was enlisted. The new law is coming in now, glove. More openly than the previous one, he puts the funding, 80-20. A New Democracy MEP who spoke - I followed him - said: 'It is a cowardly step 80-20, it is a start'. 80-20 will become 50-50 tomorrow and can be 20-80, overturned. That is underfunded by the state of education. It can be reversed. And if it is to be reversed and done on the basis of evaluation, it can even grow up, because then it will be the free money for industrialists and individuals. The class barriers to education have always existed. But now new people are coming in. There were also when massively they entered universities and children from the working class and rural children, in the 1970s-80s, because entrepreneurs needed more educated cheap labour. The doors opened. It was, of course, an objective trend, the modern needs that led parents to cut money out of too many things to feed care centres, etc., private education, so that their children - had the right to do so individually - to reach the universities. Travel barriers were also in these circumstances. No government, no ministry dared to do every four years an assessment of the social origin of students and students by school, group and region, to see whether or not there were class barriers. SYRIZA has now discovered them. When the New Democracy is, there are class barriers. When it was SYRIZA, they had been abolished. Let's see what the composition was. Of course, there were class barriers. But that's not enough now in the system. The system now establishes between the universities that there is a class differentiation that will lead to universities operating as a supermarket market, you will have the strong chain of supermarkets and the weakest ones. There will be takeovers and mergers and there will necessarily be too many schools. They still won't have students. The class barriers even existed when there was no basis for introductorys. I'm saying that because he's out of hypocrisy in this Chamber. I recognise that the Members of the New Democracy, most of them who spoke - or rather, to be honest, those who have attended - were very raw in this matter: University equals the market. Research equals the market. But there was not a phrase saying: 'Get us a list.' First of all, research concerns the general research into human needs, the needs of the Greek society, the needs of the people. Contemporary investigations don't exist. What the market needs. We will do research on Hondo, research on JUMBO, research into JUMBO, I don't know, about the "FRAME" about "KOTSOVOL" and so on. Market research. Therefore, another type of higher education is now needed. It'll be called public. But look at this. Why would foreign universities come to Greece? It is full of schools in Greece, each city has also a university, small, large, schools, etc. You're talking about Cyprus. But in Cyprus there was no university, the market was free and the private went. Here in Greece when some university schools are closing down, can anyone come, but why come, when they have Greek universities, supposedly public, who produce work for the private, capitalist sector? And in this sense if you look at the evaluation done by ADIT at universities, you will see one element of the evaluation: Lower the general courses required to ensure a background, which should be, background of general education for each scientific object. This is our time of innovation and digitisation, etc. It just requires an uploaded uniform general level of knowledge, so that specialization also has a high level. And he even said from the first and second years - these were the observations he made at universities, I've given them in detail - to pass the selection courses. They come to the point of making comments to the School of Philosophy, which in any case the School of Philosophy does not produce or are in the services, that the lessons of choice must be increased and that the School of Philosophy must also work with individuals and other market players. I don't know what they meant. Therefore, here the evaluation does not calculate the level of knowledge and education. If, in all sciences, the objective scientific methodology is applied, they are not exploited. Reading these evaluation reports, which have been published for many months, we have also published them in "RIZOSOPASTI", I reminded me of this, that scientists who are now coming out will function as the chemotherapy protocols work, i.e. the large majority of scientists will be executive bodies. Of course, there will also be an elite of scientists who will do a very perfect job, deeply integrated into the system. They will be the senior executives of the hierarchy in an operation or a branch, etc. The production of scientists to do a purely executive job, without a crisis, without thinking, without reacting - of course, there will be reactions, because that is a question of struggle, movement, etc. - and it'll be with the protocols, like chemo. He tells you this type of cancer is, take this protocol. God knows how much studied and generalized it is, I don't know, because companies make protocols. This is how scientists, purely executive work, as the manual worker did, or much more and more practically, as the worker does at a fully automated factory, where buttons are pressed, works with buttons and is insane with the well-known system. If the button does not press properly, if it does not notice, the chain can also be confused. That is the aim, so that the majority of scientists operate. To conclude, therefore, there is no need to abolish public universities. It will also reduce and become public universities that will be recognized internationally, because they will be of great help to Greece's export orientation and to the action of Greek businesses, monopolies, domestic and foreign, international. Why should they be privatized? Why should private education be generalized? In any case, it is generalized and has cycled public education. And I say it, why? We are now split up here in the House, those who are with public policy and those who want privatization. It reminds me very much of the socialism that PASOK did in the 1980s with the 'problems'. It's exactly the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much, too. Mrs Matutes from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed arrangements of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs bill are in full agreement with the election commitments of Mr Mitsotakis. I am here admonishing that for us, this is praise and not cold. These are commitments concerning the transformation of higher education institutions into pillars, both locally and at regional level, that will develop and improve cooperation and networking with the world of production and entrepreneurship, with social actors and with internal and external institutions. This is the first time that it is attempting to create an innovative national education strategy, which is in synergy and good cooperation with the overall national development strategy, as well as with the strategy for the development of local societies and economies, moving the IPP to a National Higher Education Authority. It finally sets the guarantees of an objective assessment of all departments, schools and universities, and links with development and harmonisation criteria in the European environment some of the state funding. These criteria have always been a matter of concern, especially in the years of the crisis. The interconnection of education and vocational certification with the labour market - and for us, it is necessary and honest - the quality of teaching staff and services, which this offers trainees, the safeguarding and the competitiveness of professional rights throughout Europe and the extroversion - internationalisation of academic institutions. In addition, this bill comes to answer a key question, which the advanced countries have been clearing up for decades and are moving firmly and strategically. Who's investigating? This legislative initiative selects a mixed collaborative model. The Ministry of Investment and Development, to which the General Secretariat for Research and Technology belongs, ensures, by virtue of specialisation and know-how, the innovation and the development of research, while the relevant Ministry of National Education and Religious Affairs is monitoring the substance of the research and its compatibility with the country's society and the labour market. How will all this happen? Firstly, by strengthening and exploiting the institutional tool available to the state, i.e. the National Higher Education Authority, to upgrade and improve the quality of public HEIs, in a rapid, decisive, effective and modern way. This is evidenced by the adoption of new provisions, in addition to the existing institutional framework, of which provisions under the responsibility of the previous Government were only selective and not fully applicable. It should be recalled that the full implementation concerned provisions for the implementation of a national strategy, for the financing of institutions by means of programme contracts and for actions to establish and finance centres of excellence in the HEIs. These provisions in this draft law are strengthened and placed as part of a strong and coherent institutional framework that surrounds the functioning of the new authority. We will also achieve this by attempting to rationalise and structure the most unreasonable and unrealistic restructuring of the map of higher education, in which the previous government has made progress not only through the creation in a night of new institutions, departments and research structures, but also with the simultaneous abolition of existing at the expense of quality, science and academic values. This project is entrusted to the NRAE, which uses expertise and international experience in the quality systems of higher education as a method for setting up the necessary solutions or proposals. It should be noted that this reform of the Charter, in particular, raised a serious issue of the composition and functioning of the management bodies of the former PPP, since it created incompatibility with the members of the Board with what the existing institutional framework envisaged. Therefore, the need for the reconstruction of the management bodies of the former PPP was firstly submitted for the purpose of restoring legality and then for the purpose of extending its powers. In addition, the proposed provisions seek to radically reform the procedures and the financing framework of the HEIs by applying for the first time a link between a part of the state funding of universities with evaluation and with a central aim of continuously improving the quality of their operation. A more flexible and adaptable framework is therefore established for the operation of the specific research funds accounts, which are the central tool for research funding carried out in higher education institutions, as well as in research and technology bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for our country to cover the gaps in performance and finally to show the image of an organised and modern landscape in the field of higher education for the benefit of our students, their families and our national economy, for the benefit of the labour market and society, while being worthy of the respective international higher education systems. To this end, the new law of the Ministry of Education makes a decisive contribution to the strengthening and restructuring of the independent authority, which did not include the law on the State's performance. The time has therefore come for this gap to be completed quite soon and they deserve warm congratulations to the Minister, Mr. Niki Kerameos, to the State Secretary responsible, Mr. Digalakis, as well as to the officials. Finally, I do not want to fail to praise the right decision on the Three Hierarchs' festivities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u142	Thank you too, my colleague. Mr Bartzokas has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that public dialogue focuses primarily on economic issues must not for a moment make us forget that education was, is and will be the top national topic. Education is the basic component of development and the enjoyment of the public good of education, not of any education, but of quality education, of a modern education, of a education that absorbs and makes all the innovations, I assure you that it is at the top of the priorities of all Greeks. So public education was, is and will always be a national demand. The arrangements of today's bill show that the voice of the citizens is finally heard. The New Democracy, moreover, always manages to answer all the current critical questions. The parliamentary week that we are holding will confirm it. The question of 'governmentality or insolence' answers strong governance, introducing electoral law. On the issue of the election of the President of the Republic, he responds with consensus, choosing a prominent united person. To the major question of whether Greek education will continue to remain with a glance in the past, today's bill is coming to disprove this and answer it. The look is only about the future. For the New Democracy and the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, public education at all its levels is the instrument for social mobility, the instrument for creating integrated people and aware citizens, the instrument for creating a more coherent and equal society, the instrument for escapeing poverty. We, who belong to the younger generations and have experienced the frustration and inability to connect education to the labour market, those who come from regions where income inequalities are very strong and poverty is great, know that the only way out of the new generation is access to quality education. However, quality in education, particularly in higher education, is not a general and vague concept. Quality means evaluation, it means discrimination, it means integration into the labour market, quality and fresh skills, extroversion. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law incorporates these characteristics into higher education. For the first time, tertiary education is inextricably linked to economic growth. The national education strategy becomes part of the development planning. She's the one that feeds her and watches her. Besides, how can it be done differently? How can we talk about economic growth, social prosperity, progress, investment, many good jobs, if we do not use the most important factor of production, our intellectual capital? Without reservations, but with confidence, Higher Education Institutions are at last subject to evaluation by the newly established enhanced National Higher Education Authority and it is innovation that part of the funding of universities will depend on their evaluation. On this axis, the Civic Opposition attempted a complete distortion of reality. It has been heard that where the linkage of evaluation to funding has been implemented did not bring the desired results, that the New Democracy is attempting to implement a business model in public education, that regional universities will disappear. Despite the fact that we are not surprised by the ideologies and the selective reading of the reality of the opposition, it is still disappointing that there is not a minimum common denominator on issues relating to the future of our children, because the truth is that the model of interconnecting evaluation and funding is applied to the most enviable educational systems, such as Finland, and that is what we cannot hide from the Greek people, because the truth is also that the Ministry of Education's bill does not introduce any new logic. It merely adopts the logic and philosophy that the student, the Greek parent, the whole of the Greek society, the logic of democracy, transparency, accountability and responsibility, has now been adopted. Nor is it new that the state must support in every way and support research, not put it bureaucratic tripleways, which has often been done so far. This bill also answers this pathogen. It is returning to researchers the autonomy of acting within a flexible, transparent and effective framework. In this way, he returns beneficially the results of research where they belong, in society itself. The bill also contains provisions which solve many small and chronic problems of educational reality. These were analysed in detail. Of course, I am referring to the favourable provisions on the transfer of multitude teachers, the rationalisation of school tours, the loose ends of the operation of the International University and of the University of West Attica. That's not a little bit. Many minor problems sum up the complex problematic reality facing education today. Ladies and gentlemen, in a short time, our country will celebrate the two hundred years since the revolution of 1821. This celebration will remind us that the transformation of Greece from an Ottoman province to a modern modern modern modern state did not only take place with the tanks and weapons, but mainly with the education and spiritual incorporation of the people. The teachers of the genus and the fighters of freedom were the foundation stone of the revolution. It will remind us that education is always the main component of national reconstruction. It will take us even further back in time, in Homer's "naughty excellence" to point out that excellence is not a reciprocity, but a possibility and a request to stress that moderateness in higher education does not suit either the educational staff of the academic community or the Greek student or the Greek parent. With a view to the future, then, to the best future of the new generation, let her be a winner by voting for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr. Villardos has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start by saying that as many economists as the Prime Minister hires to draw up a development programme, such as the Commission which has announced, it does not have a plan, on the one hand, and on the other hand it does not trust his financial staff or the Ministry of Development, it will not succeed if it does not resolve the problem of the atrocious public debt, the only one in the history of'red' private, as well as if it does not abolish the unsuccessful policy of the memoranda. It will also not succeed if it does not claim what Germany owes us, such as the war redress that many German economists place at EUR 290 billion or compensation for the pollutant scandal, the 'diselgate' of the German car industry, where Greece is the only country that did not demand it, without Germany being excluded either. Twenty-five billion dollars were collected by the United States only by VOLKSWAGEN, while we continue to bend our heads in the Chancellor. Even on geopolitical issues, we expect to be saved from Libya. Here we want to stress that Germany is not our friend. It was, it is and will be our enemy, and if we have not understood it yet after ten years of memorial and robbery, our suffering will continue. Today's bill, noting that the problems are not solved by bills but by acts, the rapporteur of the Greek Solution Mr Boubas analysed it in detail, so there is no need to repeat ourselves. So we are going to be talking about more general issues relating to education, starting with the fact that Greece has 44.3% of high-education graduates in young people from twenty to thirty-five years old, when it is above the European Union average of 40.7%, going beyond countries such as Germany, Italy, Austria, Spain and Portugal, according to Eurostat data that we are going to submit in the Minutes. At the same time, however, we have the highest unemployment rates with regard to young graduates, as it only employs 52%, as we will testify in the Minutes, when the average of the European Union is 80%. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We point out just 52% again, so it is unfortunately normal for our young graduates to leave, because otherwise they are deceived, which means that this is a lost generation, a lost youth and lost studies. However, it is not just the deep recession caused by the disastrous policy of the memoranda - which is, of course, continuing - but also the low added value in our economy, which is constantly falling after 2010. For example, we continue to sell bulk - so cheaply - our products, while we are active in low-tech sectors with tens of thousands of competitors. As far as the disciplines of university education are concerned, the majority of them concern graduates of science, such as engineers, but without such jobs, since our industry is only 8% of our GDP, compared with 15% of the average of the European Union and almost 23% of Germany. The graduates of business studies and computers are less, in relation to the European Union - as we will also present in the Minutes a table - while on the basis of the BSE data - which we will also submit in the Minutes - the two out of three are under-employment, thus reducing the productivity of Greece in almost all sectors, with the exception of - fortunately - processing. How are we going to compete - really - with the other countries? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Furthermore, one out of three Greek workers is absorbed by tourism, according to a study by the General Confederation of Workers of Greece, while on the basis of other surveys young graduates do not leave Greece alone to find jobs, but also seeking a better business environment, a decent treatment and perspective for their future, noting that they are persecuted by the "system of our own children". All this is because we foolishly insist on banning private education with Article 16 of the Constitution and continue to donate huge sums abroad, while losing more than EUR 10 billion and public taxes of EUR 3 billion or more of an ENPIA, as well as exporting our most valuable potential, human being, instead of our products and services. In other words, we are killing ourselves, as self-sufficient, our homeland, we are persecuting our children and condemning them to exile, paying for extra beasts, which is equivalent to the end of massism and national nonsense. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall also take my dentistry, Madam President. Based on the budget, the Ministry of Education will support a total of EUR 5.46% or 2.8% of our GDP, of which EUR 4,95 billion will come from the regular budget and EUR 500 million from the Public Investment Programme. EUR 900 million or 0.5% of our GDP will be provided for higher education, of which EUR 647 million will be allocated to the EITs and EUR 253 million to the General Secretariat of Higher Education. According to Eurostat, however, expenditure on higher education is 0.7% of our GDP, when the average of the Eurozone is 1.2% of GDP and Turkey is more than 1.5%, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Moreover, the proportion of students per teacher is worse in Greece than in many European Union countries, as they account for 38.7 students per academic staff, as shown in the graph, which we will also submit in the Minutes, compared with 15 of the average of the Eurozone. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Overall, academic staff are estimated at nineteen thousand people in Greece, so there is a shortage of twenty thousand people compared to the European Union average, mainly due to the cutbacks in the memorandum. However, some Greek universities are included in the thousands of leading internationally, according to the Spanish Research Centre, which collects information from twenty-eight thousand universities, such as the Kapodistrian University in position 217, the University of Thessaloniki in position 256, Metsovio in position 354, the University of Patras in position 530, the Ioannina in position 555 and Crete in position 636. There are, of course, other evaluations by different organisations, which substantiate that despite the low costs our universities are in a good position, which could change radically for the better if we spent the same money as the Eurozone average. I'm closing up on research and development. We must first note that the European Union, with the 2020 strategy, has set 3% of GDP as a target. The average today is 2.06%, of which 1.36% come from businesses and only 0.23% from the states. In Greece, however, expenditure is only 1% of GDP, although it has increased slightly in recent years, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, research in Greece shows significant performance, judging by a study of the 2018 National Documentation Centre, in which the number of publications by Greek researchers has increased in recent years and is steadily above ten thousand per year, from five thousand to twenty in 2000. Reports have also increased and cooperation with foreign institutions is improved. It is also noteworthy that there is a better use of research funds in Greece, after seven thousand two hundred forty-eight publications per 1 million euros, when the figure in Germany is just a thousand two hundred sixty-one publications per 1 million euros. It is a huge difference in favour of Greece, which substantiates the great potential of the Greeks that could literally achieve miracles if the party client state did not exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the General School of Xylokastro (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now Mr. Friend from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as our country is struggling to emerge from the crisis, the importance of education is crucial to the future of society. Instead of discussing future conditions, however, we are regressing on the paths of the past. We hear various ideological patterns, such as that education must be placed on the market. This is a neoliberal doctrine, which, however, paradoxically reflects bankrupt models of state planning. These are the two sides of economics, which question the relative autonomy of economic education and dismantle the academic peculiarities of universities. Is market or democratic planning the dilemma? Is that a development that respects the rights of a large majority of citizens or the development of a therapist of large businesses? The need for evaluation is fundamentally constant, but this need is only imposed on the public sector, and indeed, in terms of coercion and punishment. The private sector, in our case private education, is out of assessment, even though it is awarded an equal level of public education. Generally, who assesses the market? Did the consumer, the client, as we're told? So, does the market replace society and democracy? Is everything traded? Who assesses, on what criteria? That's the real question. Ladies and gentlemen, I will concentrate my speech on Article 50 of the college bill. It was planted in the tendering bill for the appointment of staff of teachers in the public sector. It was planted in the bill after the consultation, i.e. it is promoted by bodies which - universities, OLEME, ILO, OELE, students - have made it clear that this is a casus belli regulation. This afternoon there was a rally outside the House. The Minister for Education claims that the new rules are imposed by the European Union. It's a lie. The government operates as a delivery of low-level colleges. Let us see what happens to the European Union. Directive 2005/36 EU of the European Parliament and of the Council regulates the general status of recognition of professional qualifications - Chapter 1 - the status of automatic recognition of professional qualifications demonstrated by professional experience - Chapter 2 - and the status of automatic recognition of professional qualifications for specific professions - Chapter 3 - rather than the way in which foreign qualifications are recognised and matched. Of course, it is limited to professional qualifications, because under Union law, education systems fall within the competence of the governments of the Member States of the European Union, which can and must apply their own rules, as regards the recognition of diplomas and diplomas acquired in another country. The Maastricht Treaty in Articles 126-127 and the Amsterdam Treaty Articles 141 and 150 confirm national competence. Article 126 of the Maastricht Treaty states that the Community shall contribute to education, fully respecting the competence of the Member States. The community also implements vocational education policies, which supports and complements the action of the Member States. Often, our country has received comments from the committee on the implementation of Directive 2005/36 and on the speed of administrative handling of what is defined as a procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications acquired abroad. In these remarks the Greek side is used to answer institutionally and responsibly, as it did at least during our day. Today, however, the Minister is not enough to answer the remarks, but he is moving on to an act which is not only legally unheard of and politically indifferent, but much more institutionally dangerous. It gives the European Commission's reasoned opinion of 4061/2019 to our country, which is in the interests of political planning, so that it can surround its own legislative intervention and Article 50 of this House. A reasoned opinion from the Committee, which refused to present to Parliament and part of the content, the recommendations, namely, we have been informed today by a daily newspaper. We deserve - and we have said so in committee, we have said so - to present to the House both the reasoned opinion and the answer of the Ministry of Education. I fear that we will have revelations if what is written today in the newspapers is true. We're talking about it again. To present documents to Parliament, to find out what you are consulting secrets and insidiously to the detriment of the interests of the Greek youth. So the Minister is extending what the committee recommends and coming from the authorities on the free movement of citizens within the European Union to the exercise of professions and mutual trust between the Member States and attempting to apply them to the movement of education qualifications, not only those from other Member States - Member States of the European Union and the United Kingdom and from all over the world, such as the United States, has just returned without having been fully informed of what he has done right there. In short, against the backdrop of the officials, Members of Parliament and citizens who are protesting today outside the House, it proves to be fattened what many neoliberal ministers of government were accused of before 2015: the work of the directives of the European institutions to justify the application of extreme laws in favour of domestic economic interests and against the citizen. In conclusion, the reasoned opinion 4061/2019, judging by the evidence revealed in the journalistic investigation and not disproved by the Ministry, does not concern teachers - I stress it - but other professions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u148	They've been disproved.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u149	It does not call for a professional equivalence that you are prepared to give, without finding out the professional qualifications, and it makes it clear that the recognition of qualifications for countries outside the European Union must be based on increased criteria.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u150	He's been disproved, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u151	By who?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u152	It's from me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u153	The evidence to bring us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u154	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u155	The answer you sent to the Commission and the reasoned opinion to the Commission. The evidence. Objections have no value. Lie unreservedly at all times. You're a deliver of private interests. That's what you're doing. The evidence in the House. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] However, you could have come into dialogue with the Commission and set up a framework for examination and recognition of qualifications, as the Athens Bar Association did, for example, before registering foreign graduates in the register of trainees. So you're working as a college deliver. In order to avoid revealing your tactics, the document in question is hidden, but the content of which you repeatedly invoke as an unavoidable cheque. The document, Minister, here today in the House, not tomorrow. Your answer. What exactly does it say? Therefore, the journalistic pen that she presented on Monday in the newspaper "DIMOCRATIA" - your resignation - the Minister as a real estate broker of American University, should, tomorrow, correct and deliver her new quality, the salesman of prepared diplomas with national recognition. Obviously, the Ministry of Education neglects the national framework of qualifications, which has been integrated into the European Qualifications Framework. It provides for eight levels and no government dared to integrate these colleges, although the IEKs were integrated. Ladies and gentlemen, the provision that the government brings to the House today states that foreign higher education diplomas are awarded by the APRC for the appointment of primary and secondary education in the public schools, since they have a decision to recognise professional equivalence of higher education diplomas with relevant qualifications in the educational sector. Without, in other words, requiring the recognition of the professional qualifications of the applicant as laid down in the Directive and Union law, but without the recognition and matching of the foreign licence with a diploma of the IATP’s nationality as defined by the national network. In other words, there is no longer any need for prior professional practice in another Member State or for a professional association in the country of the university, which is awarded the title of studies or even for a certificate in respect of its professional rights by a relevant body in the Member State of the European Union. Of course, no control system on the essential differences in the duration, subject matter and level of foreign securities. In this way, for example, the new commander of the NAP, Mr. Kontolones, or the newly resigned State Secretary for a scandal, related to his studies, Mr. Diadiaris, and all your pseudo-democracy, can be founded over young people and young people who have struggled hard and have founded to get a degree and go honestly in their lives. The Minister in her desperate attempt to justify her lies argued that colleges in our country are evaluated by the Ministry of Education. Everyone they know laughs. The competent department of the Ministry does not assess, but sees, the typical conditions of colleges such as the real estate situation and the formal qualifications of staff. The responsibility for evaluation is the diversity of foreign universities with which colleges are linked. These 'universities' act as graduate washing machines, I stress it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u157	I'm done. Such data, recognition by the window of academic rights for graduates of the colleges in question is a mechanism for the overall deterioration of higher education and undermining the rights of young people to education and work. Madam President, I'll be done in a minute. Minister, at least promise us, if you believe in the correctness and honesty of what you are saying, that your courage to reveal the current legislative process will be commensurate with the courage of your legislative proposal today in the Greek Parliament and to assume your responsibilities. Because today we are not simply discussing a provision that opposes Article 16 of the Constitution, but much more so the ethical example given by a Minister of Education to our children, making it easier for education to defend the economic interests of a few training dealers. Education shall be subject to the constitutional guarantee provided for in Article 16. Therefore, any opinion you give us here - because I read something in the press - has no serious luck. Along with all the academic and educational institutions, together with the other parties of the Representation, all other than the Greek Solution, even along with your resignation to teachers, the IAEA, we ask to withdraw Article 50. This is casus belli. This legislative structure does not bind us and we will be opposed to the implementation of the law, so that it does not apply in practice and is abolished when new parliamentary correlations arise. Nor will the power that Mr. Mitsotakis will give you politically when coming to the House can change the reality. Young people, citizens have reached their conclusions. You are a deliver of great private interests. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The President of the MERA25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Varoufakis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Madam President. As a university, I consider my obligation to go beyond our ideological and political differences, Minister, to approach any bill concerning education in a respectable and constructive manner. In the field of education, we have a duty to make the most of it. But, Minister, I cannot help but mention my introduction to the lack of ambition, the lack of formation, the quality insufficiency and the sloppyness of this bill. You represent a new government that talks about excellence and civil values. I was expecting you to make at least one attempt in your first education bill, show these values, convince us that you are serving them, if anything, you are embracing them, you are embracing your values, you understand them. Instead, instead of an integrated and structured proposal on education, you rushed to table a comprehensive draft law. It seems to have been written by someone who does not understand the difference between goods and education, between education and training, a legislator, who does not appreciate the difference between a seal that can be trained, but who can never be educated by a man, young or older, who can and must be educated and trained. As if it were written by a team of your associates, who, above all, took a contractor to serve the interests of well-known colleges, who grow in the shadow of the underfunded university. As in other colleagues, you talk as if you are ruling a normal country. Ladies and gentlemen, regularity will not return to our country, because you close your eyes to reality, which Greek citizens face, assuming a virtual new regularity. Thousands of school units have closed in the years of the crisis and have not been reopened, because the crisis continues. Our universities have lost a large proportion of colleagues who have either been retired or migrated without being replaced by the Memorandum of Understanding. Schools and universities remain today on the alleging floor in terms of funds and staff. Our students and students observe their deported teachers and are professed and behaved by the anguish of the degradation of their studies. Every year our first-year students come from high school in the universities with an increasing level of knowledge, especially in mathematics, with increasingly low morality, attending the children of the occupants who have left the Greek education system from their fifteenth, after the 1st high school going to IB, a process that effectively cuts youth between the two, starting studies abroad for a large minority, whose relative wealthy parents no longer see the reason to pay taxes for universities, in which their children would not go anyway and their grandchildren would not go anyway. Madam Minister, no country whose ruling class withdraws its children from their 15s from the education system can fund as it should and can public high schools and universities. Nevertheless, despite the economic collapse in our public education, I would like to pay tribute to the heroic colleagues, professors of high school and university, who, with unexistent resources, with a state hostile to them and not just your government, the governments of the Memorandum, the government of debt-government, keep the candle of difficult knowledge lit against the storms of the ongoing crisis. In this environment, Minister, you are coming to legislate. And what's the first thing you're doing? Fly to the basket of unusables the last remnant of the country's social contract. One institution managed to register in the conscience of the Greeks, after 1974 as a merital one: the pan-Hellenic examinations for admission to universities. Greek society has succeeded in persuading itself that children who sit and strive, work, pass the tests, enter the universities - as much as we do not like the system of examinations, but it is worthwhile - and that when they come out of a single labour market before the crisis, in a declining labour market during the crisis, at least they may be able to cash out their work, their success, with a place of educator in the public system. It's sad for me, as a university, that for years now our students have had this goal or many of them have had that goal. I would like them to have higher objectives, to have many different objectives, but at least it was a public recognition of this small perspective, saying 'work for them, at least if you are philosophers, you will have the lead in a high school, in a high school.' You are not entitled to deprive them of this small perspective by telling them that those who did not go through the pan-Hellenic exams and bought a degree from a college of calamity are, in fact, equalized. You're working, not as Minister of Education, but as college cartel order handler before even pretending to rate them. I really must say - and say naively - that I did not expect that from you, at least in the immediate future. I thought you'd at least keep the pretexts. You don't. As I referred to the evaluation, let me come to Articles 2 and 12 of your bill. We see that from the Independent Quality Assurance Authority in Higher Education we are now going to the National Higher Education Authority. What's that hiding? In Article 2, you are talking about a continuation of what the previous authority did, namely evaluation and certification of universities. In Article 12, however, you are going to add the subcontracting essentially from the National Higher Education Authority to other houses that will attest colleges in Greece that cooperate with foreign universities, other colleges abroad and so on. What do you think education is, Minister? Amortiser, plates or cheeses whose quality can be certified by a private person on behalf of the Greek people? Madam Minister, I find something to be expected. That you come furiozos - we will see this in next bills, I have no doubt about it - to transfer to Greece systems of quantification of universities, by dismantling corresponding systems from abroad, namely from Britain and Australia. Because I happen to have experienced both systems on my plane, to have seen the development of such systems from zero to infinity, both in Britain in the 1980s and 1990s and in Australia for twelve years, let me share with you my experience from these evaluation systems, which already appear to be gearing you to copying them today. You may perform your ergonomically and not be in the mood to listen to this experience, but I hope that there are colleagues of condolence, who are struggling enough for education, and to hear some parts of my experience. I see that the bill is the first principle, the premise that 20% of the funding of university departments will be given after an evaluation, will depend on the principle of measuring the achievement of specific objectives. For example, graduation speed on average, the number of European funds that members of a department manage to win, the number of foreign students, etc. Minister, when we measure a size in nature, she doesn't care about it. When we measure the temperature in either Soufly or Souda, the weather does not deal with the fact that we measured and did not change his behavior. But, in social, educational, in general, in whatever activity we measure people, we have an impact on their behaviour. Take the graduation speed for example: If you make the great mistake of connecting the funding of a department, with the graduation speed of students, I assure you that the graduation speed will be increased rapidly, regardless of the student's knowledge. Grade inflation, degree inflation if you connect this kind of measurement to their funding. Take, for example, what your bill writes about interconnecting the research funds that they manage to achieve, win the members of a department's board. If you connect the chances of survival of the department, its funding with this to know that now our teachers, my colleagues, will not write books. Where they wrote books or articles now, they will write one application after another to obtain research funds. In other words, consider that when you measure something at the university you tend to maximize what is measured and minimise the quality that is not measured. In other words, you will bring down qualities in the name of their measurement. It is an international practice, and it is an international finding. On the substance, these accounting systems, which were first introduced into Britain and later to Australia and are now coming to Australia, were always targeted and I am not talking about you, I am talking about those who introduced them, Sir Keith Joseph, the Minister of Education of Mrs Thatcher, who was the first teacher. The aim is to minimise the political cost of reducing funds as a whole for higher education, while the funds are transferred from some departments to some other departments, usually from the humanitarian studies departments, from the classrooms to the chambers of commerce MBAs, etc. Minister, with such quantification of qualities you will not strengthen excellence, you will strengthen the power of those who control formulas, equations, the accounting system. At the ideological level there is the creation of such a public university semimarket system. And why semi-market? Never can the market, the private sector, provide university education, ever on market terms. Will there ever be an entrepreneur in Greece, who would pay a university professor, and not just me, any serious university professor, to teach six hours a week, a serious salary so that the university can be competitive? No businessman would ever do that. Don't talk to me about private universities in the United States. You have studied in the United States and you know very well that in Harvard - despite the fact that the highest tuition fees are very interesting, we are talking about 40, 50, 60 and 70 thousand dollars per year per student - yet you know very well what percentage of the operating costs of a Harvard, a Stanford tuition, are covered by no more than 35%. In other words, they do not operate under market rules. So when there is no way that the market will provide university education, what we see is the creation of semi-market systems such as what is a little - a little introduced today into Greece by your bill. The ideological level is that the student is treated as a self-advised consumer whose preferences delineate the university, the customer who knows what he wants and the teacher is a provider of educational services. The result of accounting systems which create market conditions within the public university - what has been done in Britain, Australia and elsewhere, and now you are bringing it here - let me predict from my experience what the results will be, even if you are applying it on acorn and successful basis. Let's start with the good things that this system will have: There will really be a qualitative upgrade of the site, of the facilities, because we need to attract customers. The curriculum will indeed be more attractive to read. There will be vigilance, the teachers will run from here and there and sit much less than they sit today, because the client is right. Graduation will indeed be quicker if you interconnect university funding at the rate of student graduation and there will also be transparency of rules, we will know what formula is, every section of how much money it takes depending on the quantitative indicators you have introduced. That's good. These will be the evils of the system: you will have created a business class of teachers - there are already, it will be much worse, it will become a state in a country - you will have fully traded the curriculum, you will have motivated my fellow professors - I said it before, and I will say it once again because it is important - instead of reading and writing books, writing articles and where they would write articles, not write any more articles, but to complete requests to get funds from the European Union or write back to their curriculum. Now I come to the bad, which is given mathematically accurately that they will come: Firstly, the retreat of difficult knowledge. Because if you link the teacher's assessment to the student's view, I assure you that for the teacher the easiest way to increase his evaluation, among his students, is through the retreat of difficult knowledge and this is interconnected. Secondly, where our students' prejudices were the demon that the teachers had to exorcise, today they will become our bosses. The care of university education, the division, which semi-commercialization brings. Just to say it: if you introduce any quantitative criterion and say that, for example, your bill says that the funding of a section will be commensurate with the European research funds that the IPA members manage to win, then suddenly in a section that will go better, because some have taken research funds, the teachers who brought them will start to have bonus requirements, because they have uploaded the section's average. Immediately a division begins, because it is not at all certain or, in fact, it is absolutely certain that the one who brought the funds or the one who introduces the best thought that they are also the best teacher or the best researcher. So you bring inefficiency, because everyone will start to pursue the maximisation of indicators, regardless of the relationship between these values quantification indicators. Self-criticism, because a serious professor and branch president who wants to help the department survive, in order not to lose their jobs new researchers or to be appointed, will be forced to publish in the magazines and the themes, which maximize your indicators, not necessarily where he thinks he has the greatest scientific contribution to make. Finally, you are bringing down the dangerous ideas initially, because dangerous ideas do not have a great deal of market value in these evaluation systems. After the retreat of dangerous and subversive ideas, all ideas will disappear. Because, as you consider yourself liberal, what allowed Adam Smith and Fridich Von Hayek to write the texts, which at the moment are the basis of your ideology, was that they were not based on such evaluation systems, was that they were not based on any system which they considered their wages according to what they were writing. Ladies and gentlemen, in "Hellenic colony Greece", judging by the bill and by what is to be followed, I am sure that the imported tools of the Oligarchy without frontiers, such as "HRAKLIS" in "red loans", the assessment of universities, the quantitative evaluation you bring, find their most vulgar applications in this country. Starting with the National Authority of Higher Education, accompanied by the gift to the colleges. Finally, let us be honest, Minister, these evaluation systems concern the poor and the small and medium-sized ones. Never wanted aristocracy to send her children to a university, which is subject to such rules, to such a system of accounting. To say it simply - if I'm not mistaken, you went to Harvard - Harvard is not subject to such rules, Cambridge is not subject to such rules, Oxford is not subject to such rules. The University of Birmingham is subject to such rules and the University of Manchester, and now also to the University of Athens, the University of Peloponnese and so on. Never would the real occupants, the fewer, have sent their children to systems where teachers have to go and behave by a semimarket accounting system. I referred before, and so I will close, Madam President, to Keith Joseph, who was the ideological guru of Thatcher, the first Minister of Education of the first government of Thatcher, was the man who introduced these semi-market systems, which are cowardly - you are now, forty years later. Keith Joseph was an excellent intellectual, but he also had the courage of his word. I was young enough at the time, but I remember him in a controversy with the university dean, who I was then a undergraduate student. The dean of his university said: "Minister, if we apply the system that you bring us with the indicators of measurement, funding, etc., I will be forced as a dean to close the Philosophy department, because he just doesn't come out, he doesn't have the demand among the students. How can we have a university, call it a university when it no longer has a department of philosophy? Sir Keith Joseph turned around and said to him: "Hey, say something else." You don't even have that beautiful honest cynicity of Keith Joseph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister for Education, Mrs. Niki Kerameos, has the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by wishing Mr Alexiadis, Mr SYRIZA, sooner or later, with his colleague, Mr Tryphoon Alexiadis. With this draft law we lay the foundations for the restructuring and redevelopment of the operation of higher education with self-employed institutions, self-employed, extrovert to common stepping up with the labour market. A fundamental step forward in this transformation is, in our view, the essential strengthening of the independent authority, which ensures the quality of higher education. We therefore move on to the establishment of the National Higher Education Authority, which replaces the limited and existing Quality Assurance and Certification Authority in higher education. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the country's academic map has been the subject of an unregulated, arbitrary, unresolved redeployment in recent years. Conformities, service of interests and political purposes, short-sighted strategic planning, lack of feasibility and sustainability studies. In this Chamber we were all or some when we saw university divisions being set up in rather than five of the legislative resolutions with just two motions for amendments, while at the same time the possibilities and prospects of developing and upgrading education are extremely important. With this draft law we create a modern functional and effective independent authority, a principle for the development of a national strategy for higher education, evaluation, certification, quality assurance of study programmes and foundations, and we set the objective of this new principle to become a central pillar of the operation of higher education and to make a decisive contribution to strengthening and upgrading it. The state must create the conditions in which Greek higher education will flourish and its human resources will grow. The new enhanced order therefore recommends the national strategy programme for higher education, the Ministry and AEI programming agreements, assesses the AEIs and decides whether they fulfil quality conditions to organise first, second and third cycle studies, evaluates research units within AEIs for the first time, certify the quality of the internal quality assurance systems of IEIs and the study programmes and ex ante and ex post studies, carry out thematic evaluations of AEIs for the first time also on the basis of access to disabled people for the first time. Of course, it suggests the establishment, merger, partition, abolition and rename of HEIs, schools and honors. Here, of course, you remember all the thirty-seven university departments, which were set up as - as by the previous government, as I said earlier with Parliamentary amendments of the last few minutes. This new principle also recommends the allocation of the annual budget of grants to the HEIs. It recommends, ladies and gentlemen - and this may be a very important regulation - the distribution of 20% of the regular financing of the EIT on the basis of the indicators of quality and achievement of each institution. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is perhaps the most important of all regulations. Why? Because it suggests a change of philosophy, a change of attitude, the connection of part of the state funding of universities by their evaluation. Ladies and gentlemen, we have called it programme, we have done so by post-election. Policies based on documentation, not on luck, not on occasion, an effort initiated by Mrs Marietta Giannakou, has been continued by Mrs Anna Diamantopoulou and this effort is now being strengthened, extended. What is currently the case with regard to the allocation of state funding? Today we are talking about what SYRIZA defends with mania is the Minister of Education who is arbitrarily able to decide how much money each university will get. That is the case today, that is what SYRIZA has been applying for so many years. We disagree with that and disagree, even though we have power now. What do we say? Regular financing should be granted on the basis of objective criteria by 80%. What does it mean by objective criteria? Number of students, geographical spread of the institution. Another is an institution, which is concentrated in one city and another, which is in two cities, in two and three islands. Well 80% on the basis of objective criteria and 20% on the basis of quality and results criteria, pillars that the institution itself will be able to choose. It will be able to choose an institution if, for example, it wants to focus on research and be judged on the basis of, for example, reports and hetero-reports from ICP members or the absorption of European research funds. Another pillar is the extroversion, how many Greek students send the university abroad? How many foreign students is attracting the Greek university to Greece? Collaborations concluded with foreign institutions? This regulation precisely respects and serves the autonomy of universities. Why? Because each institution will be able to choose the pillar(s), which is interested in it and on the basis of these pillars and its performance on these pillars to be assessed. Well, 80% objective criteria, 20% quality criteria. Because we want the role of this new authority and consider it so crucial that we strengthen its independence. Today the President is appointed by a decision of the Minister of Education. We in the bill that is being discussed at the moment suggest that there should be a proposal from a Ministerial Council to Parliament, and the House will decide on the appointment of the President and the other members will be appointed on the basis of an open public notice. Ladies and gentlemen, the dialogue which has been developed on the basis of extensive public consultation, but also in the committee, has been extremely fruitful. I warmly thank all my fellow Members for their very constructive proposals, many of them have already been incorporated and will now be tabled by means of legislative improvements. For example, we have incorporated SYRIZA's proposal for an explicit reference to the legality control exercised by the Ministry over the national authority. We have also amended the provision on the student path of PAT following SYRIZA's labels. We have incorporated KINAL proposals for the inclusion of equipment and infrastructure in quality criteria, for reference made by Mrs. Kefalidou to the institutions of the university. We have incorporated comments from the Scientific Office of the Parliament regarding the term of office of the Director-General and the Director-General of the Centre for Studies and Research. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the second axis of the bill: PPE. I was surprised, Mr President, Mr Varoufakis - you are a university with a great deal of experience at the university - that I did not hear anything about the great liberalisation of research funds. If anyone asks our country which is one of the biggest problems today in their daily life, you will be responding to this ultra-democratic framework of the EPPs. That is why we are looking forward to greater flexibility, and we are removing the bureaucratic loopholes in the existing framework, which is characterised by a heavy bureaucratic structure in procedures which are a brake on the conduct of the investigation. With the regulations that we are proposing, we are exempting the institutions from unnecessary procedural burdens and at the same time strengthening guarantees of transparency and accountability. To speak with examples, today that we are talking about the existing framework of the PPE, as the previous government has given us, about the slightest expense, whether this is the purchase of a ticket for a researcher from abroad to make a lecture, whether to buy equipment or toner, all of this takes decision months to make this expenditure. We come here in a sincere effort, after a thorough dialogue with the universities, with the help of universities, in order to promote research again, to enable our universities to deal with the substance of their work, with research activity, rather than with bureaucratic procedures. I mentioned it in committee too. A while ago, I was on a tour in Thessaly, talking to members of the academic community asked me what New Democracy would do about university issues. And when I asked them: 'What do you think it should do?', the first thing they said to me is: 'Get the balls out of our feet, release the EPPs, so we can do our jobs'. So that's exactly what we're doing. Ladies and gentlemen, we are releasing the framework because it is not worth the Greek academic teachers and the position they hold on the international territory to perform their duties in a landscape that operates as it works, with so many bureaucratic claws. All these actions that we are doing, both in relation to the independent authority and with regard to the specific accounts for research funds, all these initiatives in practice demonstrate how much we believe in Greek public higher education, that we believe that we can and should give them those tools to go further, improve even more. And this is the goal of the government of Mr. Mitsotakis. I now come to another point on which there has been a great deal of talk - obviously because of misguided arguments on the other two - and there have been many inaccuracies and misguided accusations. I am obviously referring to Article 50 and to the regulation on so-called colleges. Why is this provision foreseen? Because there are professionals who have obtained their diploma at a university in another Member State of the European Union, they have acquired professional rights in another country of the European Union and Union law provides for the freedom of establishment and exercise of that profession in any country of the European Union. As much has been heard here of unconstitutionalism, of blatant violations of Article 16 etc., I will read to you the wording of Parliament's Scientific Service. It says the Scientific Service of the Parliament: "The obligation of the Member States to recognize the professional competences which have been awarded a qualification in another Member State is directly laid down in the primary law of the European Union and, in particular, in provisions protecting the freedom of movement of workers and freedom of establishment". I put it in the Minutes for those who haven't read it yet. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mrs. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about? We are talking about a fundamental principle of the European Union, one of the foundations of the European Union, for workers to be able to move, work freely without having any further stumbling blocks. I would, however, like to come to the objections of the opposition and, above all, to start with SYRIZA. SYRIZA at the meetings of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media spoke of a disgraceful provision, a major issue, bypassing Article 16, a provision that was 'insected'. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, the 'planted' provision appears to have been 'inflamed' in the SYRIZA notices in the years that were government. We've got to say: Invitation to SYRIZA for staff at the Proceedings Review Authority 2018: The professional equivalence of colleges is normally recognised. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mrs. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] SYRIZA Call for Staff to Personal Data Protection Authority 2018: The professional equivalence of colleges is normally recognised. SYRIZA Call for Staff at the National Public Administration Centre 2018: The professional equivalence of colleges is normally recognised. Invitation to a doctor at the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction 2017: The professional equivalence of colleges is normally recognised. SYRIZA invites doctors to the Ministry of Culture and Sport 2018: The professional equivalence of colleges is normally recognised. Invitation to SYRIZA for a hundred and sixteen regular staff posts at the Ministry of Culture and Sport 2018: The professional equivalence of colleges is normally recognised. SYRIZA invites staff in the courts to the Ministry of Justice 2017: The professional equivalence of colleges is normally recognised. The truth is, I had a lot more, but I have a limited amount of time. But let's go to the teachers too. Because here we are talking specifically about teachers. Invitation to SYRIZA for general education teachers 2018: The professional equivalence of colleges is normally recognised. Signature: Constantine Gavroglou. Invitation to SYRIZA for special education teachers 2017: The professional equivalence of colleges is normally recognised. Signature: Constantine Gavroglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u162	You're lying again!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u163	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u164	Lies...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u165	Read...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u166	Please, no dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u167	But I come to the most interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u168	Aren't you gonna stop?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u169	Please! Mrs. Fotio will call after the word, and if she's lying, let her tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u170	Why the most interesting thing? Because it's about my dear Mr. Nikos Friend, who said very heavy expressions, talked about college delivery and so on, if I'm not mistaken. Invitation to candidates for general education 2016: The professional equivalence of colleges is normally recognised. Guess the signatory. Nicholas Friend! I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] How much hypocrisy now? How much hypocrisy now? So what did SYRIZA do to tell things the way they are? For four years, it normally recognised the professional equivalence of college graduates as being due under European law and Union law. For four years. I mentioned ten or eleven notices. There's a lot more. For four years then, all'milk-milk'. But it came in 2019 and 2019 we had elections. So what was it supposed to be? SYRIZA then, a few months before the elections, apparently in order to be pleasing to a particular audience, decided to declare warfare at colleges and voted for a provision excluding graduates from these colleges from participating in educational competitions. Just teachers! For that reason, the European Commission has sent us a letter of formal notice. So I heard statements from SYRIZA officials that there is no letter. Now I have heard that the letter is a lie or that the letter is not referring to teachers at all. Those of you who have been in ministerial positions at least should weigh the reasons for public interest, for which I cannot submit the letter in the Minutes. But I will be happy to show it to the rapporteurs of the parties who so wish. I will also read to you this because I have asked whether or not the letter relates to teachers. Because it is written in the press that it is not a matter of teachers at all. It therefore states in particular that the European Commission considers that Article 54(5) of Law 4589, the Gavroglou Law of 29 January 2019, is inconsistent with Article 1, Article 2(1) and Article 4(1) of Directive 2005/36 as it provides that primary and secondary education teachers, who have acquired their qualifications in another Member State — of the European Union, must acquire academic recognition of the diplomas awarded by the IATP, instead of providing that those teachers after obtaining professional recognition of their diplomas, in accordance with the provisions of Presidential Decree 38/2010 and so on, should be able to participate in tenders for the recruitment of teachers in both the private and public sectors. For those who say that the letter does not exist, that it is a lie that it concerns teachers, I invite the parties' rapporteurs to come to see the letter and to withdraw their reports of the committee's non-existence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u171	Your answer, not lies between us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u172	Mr. Philly, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u173	So I'm coming to KINAL. This Directive 2005 on the recognition of professional equivalence was incorporated into Greek law by you, the PASOK, when you were a government, by the Presidential Decree of 2010. So you were - and you were right - that you have made sure that European legislation is implemented in our country and that these degrees are recognised. In 2010, therefore, KINAL colleagues said 'yes', the professional equivalence of these degrees must be recognised. In 2019, ladies and gentlemen of the Change Movement, you said "yes". Where did you say yes? You said 'yes' so that the professional equivalence of these degrees is recognised. How? When SYRIZA brought the order in 2019, a few months before the elections, where he suddenly blocked college graduates from educational posts, the Change Movement voted "no". So you wanted the colleges inside. Twice, in 2010 and 2019, you voted to recognise the professional equivalence of college graduates. Now? You told us that you would vote 'no'. I'm losing reasoning somewhere. So why are we legislating on this provision? Because it is a basic principle of the European Union that free movement and establishment of workers within the European Union is essential, because if you have obtained a degree in another European Union country, for example. You can come to Greece to exercise these professional rights. Of course there is a check on the quality of the studies you have attended, on the quality of the Foundation from which you graduated. This is a provision that has been in force for years. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us finally put an end to populism. This arrangement ensures what was in place for so many years and abolished by SYRIZA a few months before the elections, just to be pleasing to a particular audience. Equal measures and equal weight in the European Union, as is the case with so many other services. Our country must respect and respect as a Member State of the European Union, Union law and existing legislation, as laid down in the relevant directive that ensures opportunities for all inclusive. Allow me, Mr President, a little more time. The bill also provides for important provisions regarding schools. This is because, apart from fighting for a more free and more autonomous university, we are struggling for a school, where there will also be greater degrees of autonomy, to which we will show greater confidence in teachers. That is why the provision concerning school excursions, on the basis of which primary school excursions are now decided by the school and do not require approval by regional authorities, is precisely in this direction. Modern school does not only provide knowledge, it also offers skills. That is why the regulation on the establishment of the State Certificate of Informatics is also a very important regulation in the direction of strengthening the skills of our young people. A reference to the regulation concerning teachers who choose not to appear to undertake a service. As you know, the goal of all of us is the proper functioning of schools. SYRIZA did two big bad things about it. He abolished double molecules in the inaccessible areas and, secondly, abolished the sentence for anyone who does not appear. And I ask: is he not indebted to the Greek state? What about children, the society that does not have a teacher in the end? And yet that teacher and teacher who goes to the difficult areas must not have any extra moleculosis? Shouldn't the state reward him through extra molecules? SYRIZA abolished it. So, together with the State Secretary, Mrs Zacharakis, we will also institutionalize the extra moleculosis, but we also recommend the exclusion for two more years if the teacher doesn't show up...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u174	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u175	I shall conclude, Mr President. Why? Because in any case, even if he has a health problem or whatever, there are special provisions allowing the postponement of oath, unpaid leave and so on. But we must all stand by the local communities and our children. And each child, wherever he is in the country, is entitled to have a teacher and a teacher as predicted. And I close, Mr President, in this way. I was very interested in the roll-call vote tabled by SYRIZA. Three articles were put in the roll-call vote. First, Article 16, concerning the link between financing and evaluation. SYRIZA disagrees that the funding should be linked to the evaluation. So what's he suggesting? SYRIZA wants the Minister to decide arbitrarily how to give the money to the universities. Interesting! Element one. Element two. It has deposited a denomination on Article 33, whereby the beginning of the thirty-seven sections which were created as - such as - is suspended. And since we sometimes forget in this Chamber, for example, how a section was set up with a last minute's parliamentary amendment and on the grounds of two and a half lines: 'The section on the establishment of which the Committee has been informed and agreed has been established'. This is how SYRIZA founded university departments and we say it is not worth our children having such an academic map, without academic criteria without feasibility and sustainability studies. I'm presenting in the minutes the establishment of university departments by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u176	Which city is this?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u177	I'd like to close this. I would like to thank the Deputy Minister, Mr Vassilis Digalakis, who worked very hard on this bill, the Deputy Minister, Sophia Zacharakis, who also worked very hard on all the provisions relating to primary and secondary education and the Secretary-General, Apostolis Dimitriopoulos and Mrs Anastasia Gikas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-eight students and students and six educational attendants from the Elementary School of Source and the Elementary School of Lygaria Trikallas. The House welcomes you. Have a good year, good progress. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Fotio has the floor for seven minutes, then Mrs. Rapti who has asked for the floor for an hour and we will give it to her...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, I too have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u180	Yeah, I got it in mind. After Mr. Micopulus, do we agree? Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, I watched with great interest this Minister's communication show, which presented thousands of documents, as if it did not know exactly the Arvanitopoulos law, where he had done all this bypass of the Constitution. Of course I did not hear a word, but a word about the answer she sent to the European Commission. Otherwise, with great arrogance he explained to us things that, in fact, in fact, cut access and change the university map completely, making difficulties, creating obstacles to access to higher education. After all, this is a bill to be added to the very long series of attempts to curtail the Greek public university, which the New Democracy has been carrying out for so many years. Public and free education in Greece, and in particular higher education, served as a mechanism for raising the Greek society, alleviating inequalities and promoting social mobility towards the middle layers. The Greek people have recognized the value of the public university very early and do what they can to study their children in it. Besides, the university education of his children was the only way out of the walls that the post-war state had established in the social majority. Elites have never seen with good eye the mass access of low and middle classes to higher public education, for three main reasons. Firstly, all social goods, namely health, social security, welfare, water, energy and, of course, education are very important areas for the profitability of private capital. It seems incomprehensible to you to raise the barrier to Article 16 in the pursuit of large capital for profit. Higher education you see it as a product market, which is why Mr Mitsotakis used to call the students "customers". The bill sends out bills of those who brought you to power. It has nothing to do with...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u182	The people are bringing power. The people brought us, the people's families brought us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u183	Please, Mr. Kalafatis. Previously, you didn't like the Minister doing the same. Don't do the same to Mrs. Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u184	It has nothing to do with evaluation or education. You consider it incomprehensible to fund education by the taxes of the people, so you do not seem to be trying to cut the budget. It is no coincidence that Mrs Kerameou shroud, all the details she knew, ignored until a few days ago exactly what the percentage that our country spends on education is spending on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u185	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u186	Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u187	He learned that it is 2.6% of GDP and that it is one of the lowest on the European average. The capital and the political parties that represent it, the New Democracy, are not interested in the education of the citizens who have become aware of it, but want to provide qualified under-represented personnel with skills corresponding to the needs of the businesses. Such promises promise all kinds of colleges, in one detail: graduates will not stop all their lives, throughout their working life being constantly retrained from their pockets, always paying themselves to update their reduced knowledge and skills. So since you have tried for two decades to abolish Article 16 of the Constitution and allowed private universities to be set up, and since you failed to do so thanks to the decisive resistance of the university space and movement, you are now continuing the effort with this bill. You could not equate college degrees with Greek universities and equals to those of foreign universities. But you now allow graduate colleges to be recruited in public posts, for which university education is required under the law. It's really the bypass of Article 16. We've said this a long time ago. So you cancel it and you know very well what you're doing. The New Democracy, which swears to excellence, for others, is always in force because for its 'children' it is not true - we have seen it now in all the recruitments you have done all this time - it insists on the basis of '10' for admission to universities with the sole aim of reducing the number of importers. You have reached the point where you are cutting off the child’s allowance, the roof allowance, the CRL, if a child repeats the order because of absence. So you have a basic problem here. Do you know that '10' each year according to the difficulty of issues is changing, so what is your problem? Reduce exactly the ones who'll pass the introductory exams. And you have the nerve when you push these children to look for their future abroad to say that you are concerned with dealing with Brain Drain. At the same time, you reduced the entrants with the removal of thirty-seven departments, including the Law School of Patras, and abolished the two-year PSA graduate studies at universities in order to obtain a higher adequacy of university and cognitive knowledge. Of course, the cooler from Peristeri must remain cooler than the pigeon, he must not learn more! That's why you cut it. What you are concerned with is insinuating the parental consciousness that, in order to study their children, they need to have the amount of tuition fees asked by the college chief, as is the case in the United States and in many more countries that have embraced this model, where the children of middle and low classes are excluded from higher education or charged for a lifetime. Student loans in America amount to 1.5 trillion. USD, which accounts for 7% of the country's total debt. I would not be surprised if Mrs Kerameos, in the same style as we have seen today, begins to advertise student loans. It'll be the next step. The Greek people are willing to do anything to see their children study and advance. Unfortunately, with your policy on the altar of securing more customers for private colleges, you are struggling with this youth dream. Ma'am, I've heard you speak with the arrogance of victory. But soon the people will pay you the frustration of their expectations. We are voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Mrs Fotio. I will give two minutes to the Deputy Minister, Mr Digalakis, who has asked for the floor. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Before I say what I wanted to say, I will tell Mrs Fotio that the Greek people have brought us to where we are and the programme that we have been asked to implement. I wanted to comment on this. Unfortunately, I see that the President of Mera25 has left the Chamber. I would not intervene - it was delayed until I was given the floor - but because this argument has been heard and elsewhere I wanted to mention it. Mr Varoufakis tried to demonise the use of quantitative indicators in evaluations and brought as an example the indicator mentioned by the Independent Authority, the NSAE. What he looks at, one of the indicators he looks at will be the graduation rate, namely how much of the students graduate in relation to students entering the university. And there it was created the scenario that universities, in order to play with the system, what they will do to trick it, are that they actually give them easy degrees and that way they will be able to get the evaluation. Mr. Varoufakis is an academic, he's a university. Evaluations are made around the world and made in specific ways. When an expert external evaluation committee goes to a university, among other things, what it does is that it asks teachers to show it examples of student exams and writings. So all these things in the evaluation process are being looked at and we cannot make fun of the system in this way. Finally, I wanted to say about the example that has been mentioned about temperature in Souda and Chania, that yes, it is an indicator that will show us that in the twin-eye and in Democritus we need to give more money to heat.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u190	Thank you very much for keeping time. Mrs Rapti has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Minister, The draft law we are discussing today proposes rules - the foundations for upgrading the national strategy for higher education in our country. This is done, as the Minister has said, by reforming the framework of funding, evaluation, certification and quality assurance of higher education. The first and decisive step is the creation of this new, modern National Higher Education Authority, which replaces the Quality Assurance and Certification Authority, this principle that SYRIZA himself had degraded, since he never gave an opinion on the creation of any of the sixty-one more than sixty sections that he founded on his days, as the Undersecretary, Mr. Diagalakis, said. That authority shall be provided with broad competences enabling it to function effectively and to fulfil its mission with sound independence guarantees, while incorporating best international practices. The new principle will lay the foundations for the reform of the framework law, with a view to strengthening the self-employed and continuing assessment and the extroversion of universities. Unfortunately, in recent years we have witnessed a state planning for our educational institutions, without academic criteria, without feasibility and sustainability reports - that is a reality, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, no matter how disturbing you - rather than always synthesizing with micro-party interests and election purposes. Our Government with this bill dares and innovates, as the introductions certify curriculum programs prior to their start-up, considering whether universities actually fulfil quality requirements to organise all their curriculum and are linked and depended for the first time on part of the state funding from their evaluation, as will be analysed below. The aim is always its continuous quality upgrade. In the same direction as the continuous improvement of this quality of the Greek universities, in which we have all studied and know how many and what things are needed, there are important improvements in the field of research in the functioning of the specific research funds accounts, which is the main financial instrument of our university research. These accounts have been said many times, they are dysfunctional, everyone who is in any way related to them and to education, and most of the time they make research work difficult, both from universities and research bodies. With the new regulations, they become more flexible to promote not only scientific research, but also to ensure that special research resources are not lost. Proved, therefore, our Government defends the public university, promotes its quality upgrade and essentially supports not only the educational but also the very important research work it produces. Also, many necessary areas are also involved in individual procedural matters for the operation of school units, and all these changes take place in the direction of modernising efficiency, simplifying procedures and strengthening the autonomy of school units. These changes demonstrate our ideological faith in the selflessness of the school unit and our confidence and support in the role of the teacher. The new higher education authority will have a new structure and will be governed by new principles of operation. It will consist, as has been said, of three institutions whose choice is made following a public notice and the President, chosen by the Committee on Institutions and Transparency of Parliament, namely in conditions of complete transparency, impartiality and integrity. This purely remarkable structure, which strengthens the independence and autonomy of higher education institutions, does not understand why it disturbs SYRIZA. It is obvious that it is disturbed because it has allergy in any sense of evaluation and excellence, both public structures and the institutions of the country. The supreme Council of this principle will recommend to the Minister the programme of the national higher education strategy, this famous national strategy which we have been discussing for so many years and we still have not been able to implement. Because we will have a national strategy programme for higher education, which we will also implement. It will also recommend the establishment, merger, division and abolition of universities and schools, the annual programming agreements between the Ministry of Education and HEI, the allocation of the annual grant budget to the HEIs in the way it was said, i.e. 80% of state funding on the basis of objective criteria, the number of students, the geographical spread and 20% of state funding based on indicative quality indicators, to which each HEI will choose to be assessed. This is another important innovation, namely, the higher education institution itself to choose the indicative indicators to which it will be assessed. As has been said, these indicators concern the effectiveness of the educational process, the research activity that this institution must have and the internationalisation of the institution. Only if the quality indicators, which the higher education institution itself itself - I insist on - are not met, has it chosen, then only the amount corresponding to 20% of the grant will be allocated to the grant of other institutions. This prediction has caused SYRIZA's reaction, which prejudges that universities will lose this 20% because they will not catch the quality indicators. Why is this condemnation of the failure of our institutions, ladies and gentlemen, at first instance? This is because, in fact, SYRIZA is the one who underestimates and does not believe in the Greek university, unlike what he seems to support. He further argues that this will create inequalities and conflicts between universities, as other institutions will have achieved the indicators and not. However, we think it is very important that the educational institution itself chooses the area it wants to assess, precisely because we believe in the autonomy of the public university. And precisely because we believe in the Greek public university, we believe that if all the institutions operate in an organized manner, following the rules of merit and transparency that we are putting in place, they will make use of the procedural facilities and will be able to achieve all the quality indicators that they have chosen and thus receive the entire state grant. It is the Board of Assessment and Certification that will assess the educational institutions in general, but also, in particular, whether they meet the quality requirements required, to organise first, second and third cycle courses. It will also certify the quality of these programmes. At this point I would like to highlight two very important innovations introduced by the bill. For the first time, the curriculums to be established before they start operation will be assessed, on the basis of objective educational criteria. Because, unlike SYRIZA, which was abolishing educational institutions without any evaluation, we are setting evaluation and transparency rules at all stages of the establishment and operation of higher education institutions. In this context, the start of training of the thirty-seven new departments is suspended in the eleven schools established by the SYRIZA Government without any evaluation, bypassing, as we said earlier, the relevant procedure that SYRIZA itself had passed. Besides, you here too, through your representative, admitted that they had not even completed in many of these institutions the process of recruiting the necessary scientific teachers for their operation. Of course, this is not a 'outside' dismantling of them, as you say, misleadingly and for reasons of impression, but these sections will be assessed on the basis of precise objective criteria by the national authority, the sustainability studies will be carried out and, if all of this fulfils the criteria, they will function properly. The government finally puts an end to the micro-political tactics that have troubled the field of higher education over the past few years. Thematic and comparative assessments of institutions in fields such as gender equality, accessibility of disabled people, e-learning and internationalisation are also established for the first time. These areas are precisely about fundamental, individual and social rights and are at the heart of our policy. We do not want them to be the basic parameters of the new culture that we create in higher education. In particular, we consider the interventions made by this bill to be particularly important to individual issues that in practice demonstrate our social sensitivity and priority to social policy. We are introducing, for the first time, a State Certificate of Informatics, specifying Article 5, which considers as equal the provision and certification of knowledge and eliminating digital illiteracy, as our rapporteur rightly said. We support school education in remote or border regions, establishing a three-year exclusion from the appointment and recruitment of teachers appointed in primary and secondary schools and not taking up service or taking up service and resigning within a year of publication of the FEK. We are thus aiming to eliminate the unacceptable phenomenon of those appointed to the remote regions either not to take up service, or to waive their appearance within a short period of time. This will avoid malfunctions in the conduct of the courses and pupils will enjoy training on the same terms and conditions as other areas. We further take care of the protection of the multitude family, because this draft law proposes the integration of multitude teachers into the specific categories of transfer under Article 13 of Presidential Decree 50/1996, so that they can now be transferred from one region to another. For us, colleagues and fellow Members, the constitutional requirements for the protection of individual rights, such as the constitutional requirement for the protection of the multinational family referred to in Article 21 of the Constitution, are not just a proclamational one, but they are made every day and at every opportunity. Further - and I will point out this as well - the reintroduction of the school feast with Article 56 on the day of celebration of the three Hierarchs - which SYRIZA had abolished - is for us an important restoration to the education of the students, who now have the opportunity to learn about the spiritual work of the Orthodox Fathers and their great contribution to the interconnection of Orthodoxy with the Greek spirit. Finally, I would also like to dwell on the point - which has been debated a great deal and has caused the reactions to the public debate - regarding the possibility of candidates being appointed or recruited through an APA of the holders of recognition of their professional qualifications and the famous professional equivalence of their qualifications. SYRIZA's reactions are really completely pretextable. And the Minister has shown before you a large number of FEKs, which have shown the truth, that, in all previous years, this possibility existed under previous legislation, which you SYRIZA colleagues were normally applying. And when did you abolish it? In January 2019 under Law 4589 just before the elections and only for teachers. If that is not a discrimination, and that is not just a regulation for micro-policy and voting cause, what is it? Finally, I would remind SYRIZA - and he also knows - that this abolition has led to the adoption of the observation - which we have spoken about here - of the European Commission and our country is in danger of being referred to the European Court of Justice if it does not comply with European Directive 2005/36. So the imported provision does nothing but restore legality. And when you ask us repeatedly to withdraw this provision, you are actually calling on us to violate European legislation, to allow the country to be brought to the European Court of Justice and possibly to be convicted. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is changing and going with firm and decisive steps towards the future. In the education of our future, as we see it, the top of the spear is higher education. Our Government wants a well-organised high-level, autonomous, qualitative and competitive education with an emphasis on research and innovation. And she wants to structure with her legislative initiatives. Our universities will at last be evaluated systematically and on the basis of measurable results, in order to achieve their continuous quality upgrade. But at the same time, it is ensured that long - ended autonomy is ensured, so that they can unnecessarily accomplish their high mission. In the face of the political forces of delay, the country will acquire better public and extroverted universities, acquire foreign-language programmes and stimulate research and innovation. Without making discounts and sticking to our high objectives for public education, we change the map of higher education. With higher education - as we are reforming it today - our country will develop every day and for the benefit of Greek society in what our Prime Minister has envisioned, namely at a great educational centre not only in the Balkans but also throughout Southeast Europe. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Rapt. I would like to inform the House that, at the end of the list of speakers, we will now vote on the principle and on the articles in the bill that are not included in the request for roll-call vote. That is why I would ask the rapporteurs and the special speakers of the parliamentary groups to remain in the Chamber at the end of the debate on the voting. Keep track of time, and we'll catch up with Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u193	I beg your pardon, Mr President, when was that decided on the vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u194	I'm just letting you know. I think we understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u195	There was no conversation. We were left with the impression that the vote was going tomorrow...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u196	Thursday was the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u197	The denomination. Isn't that what you said? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u198	Just the denomination. The rest of the articles will be made today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u199	So you're gonna give us a second word to argue with. Because I haven't used my dentistry for example. Put it on your programming. In the first speech we said there would also be a second speech - those who did not take the time - so that we could say a few things about the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u200	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u201	So you say that this process will be exhausted today. And for Thursday there will only be the issue of the roll-call vote. So in programming, at least put that I'd like to have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u202	Of course you will. We won't deprive you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u203	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Meikopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u205	Thank you very much, Mr President. May I, too, wish my prompt recovery to my dear friend and colleague Trophorus Alexiades, that the man returns strong and strong toward us. I have been amazed to hear some colleagues from New Democracy saying that for the pathogens and distortions - which indeed exist - the Greek public higher education is an exclusive cause for the ideological hegemony of the Left. If that is the case, ladies and gentlemen, then the student party to the New Democracy, which in recent years has been taking the lead in the student elections, is the first force - it is a secret Marxist organisation and I urge the Government to recommend to the New Democracy Party that the entire student youth DPRK be deleted as the sole responsible for the tragic image of Greek public higher education. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the scripts are clearly in relation to the policy that New Democracy wants to practice in higher education. Three are, in my opinion, the axes: suspension, shrinking, abolition. In November 2019, the Minister of Education announced - and is confirmed by Article 33 of this bill - that it is continuing to suspend thirty-seven new university departments, which, as provided by the Gavroglou Act, would operate in the academic year 2020-2021. Earlier he put an end to the establishment of the Law School of the University of Patras and suspended the free two-year vocational education courses indefinitely. Of the sixty-five, therefore, two-year courses of study which have suspended their operation would benefit about a thousand ECAA graduates who would receive free high level vocational training and European standard professional certificates in order to get out of the labour market and be able to meet the current needs for new qualifications. The allocation for these programmes was EUR 2 million and would help a thousand five hundred children for their future in this country. Contrary to another crisis of provocative and selective generosity, the Boston Theological School, a private institution of the United States with a hundred and fifty students, is sponsored by 2 million euros and is intended to train priests. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, public relations and government promotion are expensive, and even worse, because they are at the expense of the education of young people in our country. We all know - it is not a secret - that the New Democracy has never seen free public education with a good eye and has not been attempted to open the door to private individuals. In the context of this appalling crusade against the free public university, therefore, many of the provisions of this bill are integrated with the government's well-known tactics to change that it cannot control and baptise its internal undermining. It therefore abolishes the Independent Quality Assurance and Certification Authority in higher education after 15 years of its operation. It's dismantling the administration and changing its legal framework. Thus, the National Higher Education Authority is born, to which even powers belonging to the Government are transferred. The government thus builds an independent principle in practice, since it will essentially be under suffocating control and will act as a sculptor for the forthcoming reforms for the EITs, which will create chaos. This radar does not escape even the funding of the HEIs. The government perceives universities as business and changes their model and funding criteria. It is therefore established that 80% -20% and 20% of state funding depend on specific criteria, such as quality, efficiency of the education process and research activity. If the HEI does not, then, catch the quality and achievement indicators, it will not receive the funding that will be redistributed to the financing of the other HEIs. In short, it punishes and neutralizes rather than strengthens university institutions, creates a competitive climate rather than co-operation, and legalises the reduction of university funding by 20%. And I now come to the notorious article 50 that amends the law on appointments to education and that comes the government - you said so, Mrs Fotio - to pay political notes and honour the promises to the school owners. Thus, diplomas from foreign educational institutions and colleges associated with them will be accepted by the AACC for recruitment to education. In other words, in an already large pool of graduates and teachers who are serving in education, who are hard and deprived of their families entering and graduated from the Greek university, the government is stacking graduates with qualifications and qualifications that are not controlled and evaluated by anyone. In simple terms, it equates a three-year-old study abroad with the four-year or five-year full-time course at a Greek university. And say, Mrs. Keramos, Minister, that we are ideological, we have a public higher education fetish. They do not, however, react ideologically to this provision. The majority of the conferences of university institutions in the country today delivers resolutions and opposes this very provision. The University of Thessaly was also included today in the storm of the reactions. Is the constituencies of universities obsessed, have they not read the European directive correctly? Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, in my opinion, is always characterised by three things: obsessed, xenophobia, hypocrisy. Reset the basis of ten for access to public universities when you are flooding the country with graduates of ambiguous qualifications and studies. You are planning to reduce admissionees to lead young people to colleges which, of course, are gradually seeking to equate fully with public universities. Close sections, beat regional institutions, cause financial suffocation because this is the master plan for the advent of private universities and business abroad. So this bill, ladies and gentlemen, is an insult to all those who have studied, studied and will choose to attend the free public Greek university. I urge you to vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, too. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u207	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to agree on one point with the Minister and the very strong intervention he has made, in which he has concealed many truths and has presented matters particularly one-sided and one-sided: there is a change of attitude and philosophy. It's true, Minister. Because from the first moment after the 7th of July, New Democracy took over governance, in all policies, economics, socialities, and especially in the field of education, there is a change of philosophy. Because in the field of education we have seen from the first day that you and the government have undertaken to implement a purely neoliberal and conservative policy on these issues. From the first bills, ladies and gentlemen, which came after the elections in a fragmentary way, and on very important issues, we saw the abolition of university asylum being abolished, the possibility for PES graduates to have access to two-year-olds in the HEIs, which had been accepted by the Higher Education Institutions in our country. We saw the precursor of this draft law with the development bill, which, of course, had nothing to do with being there, where you established the professional parity, and even extend the 2005/36 directive to which you refer and beyond the countries of the European Union. Obviously, what we are discussing today is a combined policy that you had already set up the carpet, and not only for the United Kingdom, which is a special procedure because of Brexit, but above all for the United States. What is the basic substance and the aim of this draft law today? The main substance and aim is to weaken public education, is to reduce it both to the level of expenditure, but also to the level of perspective. This is done with this draft law. And here we must see all three points which we have put in roll-call vote, Minister, on which you have expressed great surprise. Because all three articles illustrate your philosophy of how you aim to shrink and hit public higher education. And get them one - one. With regard to the abolition of the PPP, we have another expression of the state of service here. Any authority that doesn't suit you, any authority that you don't completely control.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u208	It's not abolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u209	In fact, as you have taken its responsibilities with regard to evaluation and set up a new authority which you have brought to the vote on today. Because it's your perception of these issues. Of course, you have mentioned - and so I come directly to the first point, which is about the 20 % punishing evaluation that has now been entered and linked to the funding of the HEIs - and you said before, from this step, that during the previous period of the SYRIZA government there was no assessment at the universities. But that's not true. The universities, the HEIs, are primarily a place where continuous evaluation is carried out. And, of course, there were the criteria for objective assessment and through the IPP, which you have to some extent maintained, as far as 80% of what you have captured in the bill. What do you do, however, by linking funding to these unclear quality criteria, as you call them. You know, Minister, universities are not multinational companies or commercial companies. You cannot come and put such percentage issues in terms of evaluation, depend on this funding of the HEIs, which will have very specific results. The results will be first of all that this system will work punishable for the HEIs. The first victim in this story will be regional universities. You will create internal contradictions and controversy between the academic and the research community, and it will certainly work cumulatively in the process creating problems of total depreciation of these universities. There is no excuse why, if you really want to encourage the universities, you could come and introduce positive evaluation elements. In other words, there must be a reward for universities and not a punishable reduction in funding in the way you enter it. And much more with your neoliberal ideal of neoliberalism - and many other rapporteurs and speakers from Anti-Policy have told you, not only by SYRIZA, but also by all the parties of Anti-Population - you come and bring recipes where they applied to the most extreme neoliberal moments have created problems and now there are changes. When the other European countries that have applied such models come and are now changing them, and there are also international and European studies on these issues, you stick to the obsolete and failed model on the issues of education through this perspective. You said, Minister, regarding the thirty-seven departments that you are suspending that they were established by the SYRIZA government with pure customer criteria and transaction. You are, of course, insulting the universities themselves, the conventions which had been put forward on all these issues. You ignore that, you don't care. You don't care what universities themselves recommend. You do not care that even the dean of the Kapodistrian University has your own decision. And much more, when the LAGs already had their programming done in how they would serve these sections on the basis of their needs. Many of these sections would give them a new breath, because you mentioned earlier that this draft law will now blossom higher education. So now we are going to the crucial issue, on the major issue, which is Article 50, where the Constitution, Minister, is really being violated, in the way you enter this bill. Why do you come from the back door, not just as you claimed, and that is where you put your entire place to speak of a professional parity, but you come to violate and distort academic qualifications, Minister. Because you mentioned - and we cannot leave this unanswered - before the governments of SYRIZA until 2018, that there were a number of notices, mainly for assistant teachers, where there continued to be a reference under the law of 2012 of the then Minister of Education, Mr Arvanitopoulos, to clarify here, ladies and gentlemen, the issues. It was within the framework of the 2013-2016 medium-term Memorandum, where this reference was express. It is clear that the government of SYRIZA in 2015-2016, under these very difficult conditions of renegotiation, was the first priority - Mr. Friends said so - to continue operating schools with substitute teachers. That was our first priority. And from there on, to make it clear that we just got out of the memorials in August 2018; why to remind you here that for ten years there had not been a single permanent teacher in Greek education, there were no recruitments. For ten years the schools were anxious to open up every September with assistant professors, Minister. In 2018 we were able to announce that we were entering another phase, where we had room for policy. We were able under rule one on recruitment in public and, of course, in education - something you have never formally confirmed as government. I am talking about public administration as a whole and of course about education. So, then, we jointly announced with the Minister of Education, Mr.Gavroglou and Mrs.Joufi, who was a State Secretary, fifteen thousand recruits from 2019 to 2021, starting with the four and a half thousand for special education in 2019, which your government, while the notice had fully advanced, has now been referred to in 2020. There is clearly a provision for the IATAP in this notice. I'm saying this because you said that in the special lawsuit there was no provision for the IATAP, and that's not true. From there on, the recruitment plan for 2020 and 2021 was from five thousand two hundred fifty permanent teachers. By law at the time of Kostas Gavroglou introduced this programming and procedure with the tables, so that the possibility and security for these fifteen thousand recruitments would be available, the law of Arvanitopoulos changed. They can now participate in the notices of the AACC, candidates with high academic qualifications, as well as, of course, the provision of approval and certification by the IACC of their academic qualifications. That is the reality, Minister, and that is what you are abolishing today. You mentioned that there is a letter of reasoned opinion from the European Commission. You have indeed shown it to the rapporteurs of the parties. The following questions are raised here, Minister: What did you answer to the European Commission?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u210	Is that a letter now? Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u211	You said you showed her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u212	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u213	It's a lie! You said it was a lie...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u214	Madam Minister, you have invited the rapporteurs and you have shown a letter. The first point: this letter must be tabled to the House, because you have an obligation to submit it. There is nothing to be said about correspondence with the European Commission. From there on, the question is you as a responsible minister how you handle this issue. Is that your vision of education? Why, then, is all this criticism justified, that the whole case is - because you referred to transactions - for the benefit of colleges, where colleges, of course, are not, as you have presented, the Higher Education Institutions in the European countries. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We're talking about colleges without any evaluation, when you come and enter with this bill a punishing assessment with regard to public higher education institutions, and you're actually opening up a specific college familial from now on. That is the reality, Minister. Know that these notices and this logic that comes with this draft law will be tried in the courts as well. It will also be tested on its constitutionality and on whether you go beyond European legislation. At least, my experience from Europe is that, as you have shown in the development bill, you are extending European legislation, taking the lead, not fighting for the public university, and very quickly all this will turn against you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Kalamatianos Dionysios - Charalambos from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let us say by way of way of way to the Alexiadis Hurricane about the adventure he has with his health. The introduction to plenary of a draft law on education creates the conditions for extensive discussion, dialogue and consultation on the issues and problems facing public education. We, too, would be willing to contribute to this. Unfortunately, however, the neoliberal obsessions of the bill, the extreme ideas and the conscious choice of depreciation in a direct and indirect way of the country's public education system do not allow us. You lead us once again to say that you do not have in your design the real reinforcement of public education, nor do you have strategic pitfalls, nor do you have awareness of the problems faced by Greek schools and Greek universities. You received a householded public education system with teachers and books on time, with increases in research funds and a call for teachers who were ready and delayed unnecessarily. This bill introduces arrangements for the financing of the HEIs, which you probably have confused with anonymous companies. It is planned to finance 80% and 20% on the basis of general and specific criteria. However, this distinction in funding will broaden the disparities between the Greek HEIs, intensify the introvertibility and trigger internal conflicts in the scientific and research community of the country. At the same time, it will weaken regional universities. It treats the HEIs as a supermarket evaluated by the economic manager and you are essentially altering components of the academia. With Article 33, you are to suspend indefinitely the operation of the thirty-seven new departments of SYRIZA, established by the SYRIZA. The Ministry states that they were supposedly founded serving micro-political purposes, supposedly without specific academic criteria, supposedly without prior prior to the necessary feasibility and viability studies and without the opinion of the IPO. However, this argument is being rejected by the universities themselves, by the prefectures and by the senators. The universities themselves proposed the introduction of the new departments, while having sole responsibility for their operation. Let me refer to the Physical Education and Sports Department at the Tower, which is part of which you are suspending its operation. This special reference is not only due to my identification but also to the special importance of this section. In this provocative decision, the Government is getting you another blow to the blatantly wrongdoing Elijah Law. We recently grieved on the highway of Patras death - tower two more victims, including teachers, who each day traveled on this road to teach at a school in Elias. Your Government is delaying the development of the work of the already approved, funded and constructed work with tragic results. It must finally continue its construction with a deadline for completion in 2023, as planned and implemented. The New Democracy, consistent with the time-consuming destructive policy for the county, chooses to suspend completely unnecessarily - unnecessarily - the first time in Elia University Department. This is typical of your neoliberal obsession. A section intended to start operation in 2020. It would be a point of reference, not only for the city of Pyrgos, but overall for Elias and the whole country. Its function, due to its connection to Ancient Olympia, can make it a lighthouse of global visibility and highlighting olympism. The establishment of a foreignlanguage department would even attract students from all over the world with positive results in the development of Olympia. I ask, ladies and gentlemen: is there any other place around the world that is more appropriate for the establishment and operation of a Department of Physical Education and Sport from the birthplace of olympism and the Olympic Games? The Government insists on this option, while since June 2019 the University of Patras has decided to operate the department in the Tower. And the Municipality of Pyrgos has repeatedly stated that it can contribute in every way to the necessary infrastructure for the operation of the department. We are therefore most strongly condemning the political choice of the new government decision deporting Elias and leading the place to regression and extinction. Finally, with Article 50 of the bill, you are amending Law No 4589/2019 on appointments to education. You provide that diplomas awarded by foreign education institutions, including colleges working with foreign universities, are accepted by the AACC. The regulation is even more ‘promoted’ than Directive 36/2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications. It is a blow to the graduates of the Greek universities, the teachers' servants and puts from the back door the college graduates in the educational system. In addition to the class division of regulation, there are a number of issues of educational competence, quality and excellence. It is a clear provision that favours collegeers, private interests involved in education, broadens and strengthens the existing acquisition of a diploma in and outside the country. It moves towards the public university and its graduates. Finally, it is expected to create a legal precedent for recruitment to other sectors, such as engineers, legal ambiguities and appeals. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government is shrinking public education. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I'm just interrupting if they stop talking. Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The Government of New Democracy shrinks public education, closes public university departments, does not respect public universities. It drugizes the future of many regional institutions and reduces their funding. It introduces rewarding and privatising evaluation criteria. It designs its operation in accordance with rules which are not appropriate to public institutions. At the same time, it ensures that college diplomas are treated equally by fast track procedures. It does not, as a vision, have the strengthening of public and free education for all without discrimination. It treats public tertiary education as a public limited company, I repeat it to inspire. We are at the opposite foot of this policy, and that is why we are voting against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Kalamatiano. Mr. Kalamatiano is right. Be quiet. When you're here talking underneath, you don't like it. And he does it to colleagues from the same party, not only on the other hand. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured to the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS", thirteen students and students and two teachers from the Larissa Gymnasium of Gymnasium Gymnasium. The House welcomes you. Have a good year, good progress. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Jufi, has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, I asked the Minister for the matter he created in the letter to present it to us in the Minutes during the committees and I insisted on that. So far, she hasn't testified. Since it is a public document, please and now to testify, so that we can see it in peace. I am also saying this publicly, because we are in an open process, and Parliamentary spokesman, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos, has asked for this: if she has responded to this request from the committee, I would ask her to inform us, because I think we are entitled to it. But as a public document I want it to be filed in the Minutes. I asked two days ago. If the Minister had submitted this, there would be no confusion. Mr. Friend referred to issues that had seen the light of publicity in reports. Therefore, if she had carried out this herself, we would not have had that problem. I think he's going to testify today. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u220	Sure. Is this an update he made to you in private earlier?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u221	It is not enough because I cannot read a four-page letter at the standing table in order to place it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u222	No, I don't want to blame the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u223	And I think I don't just need it, but everybody else, okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u224	The Minister has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u225	Thank you very much, Mr President. SYRIZA in committee was first saying - and not just in committee, in public statements - that I am lying and that the letter does not exist. The second position was that there is eventually a letter, but it does not refer to teachers. I have therefore made an express reference to the fact that, for reasons of public interest, it has not been made public, which, in particular, you who have served as Minister, understand that there are reasons of public interest for not having these letters made public. I showed it to you in private. You were convinced, it was clear that there was a letter and that there was a letter and that from there I think you have all the content you could have and I would ask you to withdraw from me that I was lying that there was a letter and that I was lying about the reference to teachers. The letter and it refers to teachers and refers specifically to the Gavroglou law, which it considers to be inconsistent with EU law, and I think that all of this is clearly the result of the letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u226	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u227	No, it's done, it's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u228	I insist on depositing the public document.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u229	Mr Bluchos Konstantinos from New Democracy, Draminos, has the floor. Come on, Doctor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am recovering from Emmanuel Royde's commercial card in 1875: "The market most lively. The types of the train are supported. Education: A few good - quality cassettes in transit, but completely unquestionable. The exterior thing of low quality and small honors." Roides knows about his intelligent sarcasms. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, although your most fanatical supporter can claim that you have attributed a left societal footprint to your administration in education, if the pathogenesis were reduced, if the quality of our higher education was changed. But I wrongly wonder why this reality - I do not appreciate good or bad - you have consolidated it so many years with your inspired desolation into dry slogans, always rebelling at every reform effort. And not only that, not only do you continue and merge with the well-known forces of inertia and reaction of the system, but you have gone further, with the inconveniences of Gabroglou and the chaos threatened on the academic map. So much horse and indestructible stirring? I would like to say that, while recognizing the arrogance you have shown and your opportunistic approach even in the field of education, you fail by accusing the ministry of fragmentary legislation which was clearly necessary to cure the damage you have caused and correct the anomalies that have arisen. Also disgraceful is the delay in legislating, but rather this betrays your anxiety about the prospect and planning of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important not to plunder education. It is absolutely necessary to reflect whatever reality - that is the challenge - without hypocrisy. What were the aspects of populism to date? People's language, folk education, such as people's health and everything else. Pluralism speaks to you the language of the people, cares about the education of the people, as in parallel is killed for the health of the people and everything else. But, ladies and gentlemen, the other side of populism educationally organizes an education, which is the only one that is the domination of the untrained, but populist party-trained and its fruits, the mass production of graduates, in many, ignorant and scientists who do not oversee despite the alphabets of your movements and enrich the lists of unemployed. It is therefore essential as a primary step - I stress this for the part of Elasnos, which says that we are starting a mistake - before anything is done and implemented in the planning of the government, that the current situation is effectively assessed as an evaluation of the reference. It is important that this control has clear safeguards and that there are unambiguous criteria. The EMI-related bill has three basic principles, which we must be careful about. Firstly, evaluation, merit, dignity, condemnation of the regime of the decline, the establishment of incontinental pedagogical empire, rigidism. Secondly, a reward for useful and important, correction and improvement to the least important. Thirdly, freedom within the framework of the constant effort to improve. The establishment of a principle that controls and evaluates the strategic policy of each institution and each curriculum, which controls the outcome of every effort and which prohibits the unregulated and arbitrary creation of curriculum programmes, without compromises and short-sighted purposes, with a genuinely independent role and not just advisory capacity, I think it is more than necessary. Evaluation with a view to extroverting, effectiveness, scientific and research activity, professional absorption of graduates and yes, similar funding. All of us, even you, recognise the irresponsibility and anachronism, the irresponsibility and the inconsistency of study programmes and the unadjustment of modern developments and the demands of more developed practices. The need, therefore, is a given and undeniable one. Therefore, the evaluation scanning of the academic map is imperative before any intervention is made. Therefore, it is appropriate to upgrade the - according to Ellassona - wishful, advisory, decommissioned and neglected ADI to an essential body with increased responsibilities, by avoiding relevant quality criteria, by means of checks to avoid bias and government suffocation. Let's explain a little bit more. SYRIZA's spokesman, faithful to your inertia-known left-wing verbatimism, accused the government that the present is in a conservative direction. Rather conservative is your commitment to inertia and your ideological hypnosis, because for the government this is self-evident modernisation. You spoke of a preliminary premise of a contract to reduce the academic map, while we are talking about rationalising distortions and chaos. You risked cuts and imminent abolition of the self-employed, while we consider it necessary to control expenditure and households and, at the same time, anticipate the release of the self-employed to healthy forces. You even qualified a crack with the academic community. If you of course meant the break with isotopeism, the denial of the prevalence of moderate and inadequate, the imposition of the most necessary qualifications, then we, ladies and gentlemen, support every effort to improve it. We react to the aspiracy of every reproach that you mock her and use her to entreat the naives. Let's not be fooled, and let's not put superficial dilemmas. Either we recognise our decline or we silence it or we think about ruminants. The problem of education is a financial, executive problem, the Charter, ideological, it is an end - a political problem. Beyond the flagrant bankruptcy of reforms, the anachronism of the analogistic programs, the handicapped laws, the incomplete administrative improvements, the meaning of our educational commitment remains at the moment. The rationalisation and household needs education and not necessarily money, as well as irreversible sovereignty on every aspect of it. On education we show more political dignity, a sense of responsibility and patriotism, because responsibility for education is patriotism. And this patriotic responsibility is shown by this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, too. Mr. Ahmet Ilhan has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to make a comment to the Minister on the fact that the Change Movement in the previous parliamentary term had passed the bill on the recognition of colleges. Madam Minister, I would like to remind you that we are in favour of professional recognition and the equivalent, but not of equivalence. The issue of parity is something else that has to do with the IATAP and has an absolute relationship with various constitutional issues. I would like to focus on my speech, Mr President, more on the functioning of the IATAP than on the bill, to see what the pathogens present in the IATAP are. You know that IOTAP is an agency founded in 2005 with Law 3328. The famous provision of Article 11 was then introduced. Article 11 states that decisions and relevant certificates must be issued in the case of the identification of an exchange rate within sixty days and in the case of exchange rates and equivalence within ninety days of the gathering of the necessary data, and in any event of deviation from those deadlines, due to a lack of data, a reasoned decision of the Agency shall be adopted. That's what Article 11 of the bill says. But what is the reality? Is Article 11 of the bill applicable? There are excessive and unjustified delays. I think all the colleagues who are involved and graduate from foreign universities know what is going on in the IATA. There are delays, which in some cases are up to four years, Minister, in order to deal with requests for the recognition of foreign qualifications as equal and equivalent to those awarded by national higher education institutions. So, where are the sixty days, where are the four years? Our young fellow citizens, who went abroad and studied and spent so many thousands of euros, come and even though they have submitted a complete and complete dossier, suffering without ending the process of recognizing their diplomas for years, without being able to obtain any substantial information on the course of their case. The staff responses are monotonous and repetitive, without content and a clear timetable: "Your affairs are to the rapporteurs, waiting for signature, waiting for a crisis". And all this for those who have the opportunity to go to the IATAP, because there is also a complete lack of telephone communication with the organization, which burdens the citizens who live outside Athens and Thessaloniki, who are forced to travel, in order to have any information about their application. So the reality lies far away from what is laid down in the law on the functioning of this Agency, the IATP. And while this is the situation, the department of the Ministry of Education argues that the organisation's operation has improved significantly, as there is impressive acceleration of procedures at the Ministry of Education for the professional equivalence of colleges and foreign universities. But, really, are you happy with this situation? As of 20 May 2019, the online e-Doatap platform has been put into operation, but it does not appear to be working effectively. On the one hand, it has not reduced the time for the recognition procedures to be carried out and on the other hand there are many complaints from citizens about the non-response of the Agency to the questions sent to it. The main issue, however, is not just the suffering of those concerned. The situation that this agency presents with unjustified delays in the cases of the procedures for the recognition of foreign universities' qualifications on the substance leads to our new fellow citizens being excluded from the labour market. It is criminal, Minister, for young scientists to be held hostage to IATAP shortcomings and to be led to unemployment, while their families at the same time being depleted morally and economically. All this is happening when the government makes optimistic announcements about the prospect of reversing Brain Drain. But how will the scientists who have completed their studies come to Greece when they will have to face such a situation in order to recognize their qualifications? I understand that in recent years more and more young people have chosen to do postgraduate studies abroad, but that does not mean that this should not be solved. I believe, Minister, that you need to bring in a new regulation modernising the existing institutional framework to see how we can finally speed up this process in order to finally comply with the law, that is to say, for someone who ends the university abroad when his title will be recognised. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] By the way, Minister, after I see Mrs Zacharakis here, I would like to say this: I have just received a letter from the Association of Schools of Minorities of Western Thrace, which is based in Komotini. You were sent today. You may not read it yet. He's reporting to the three hierarchs' feast. We welcome your decision and thank you very much - and I say it publicly - that the three Hierarchs' feasts will not be a holiday and the lessons will be normally held in schools and if the school wants the school to be ecclesiased. However, this order cannot apply to minority schools. Here, with your new decision, minority schools should be excluded from this process and the timetable should normally be respected, i.e. children should go to school. This is no holiday, and we welcome that, and the kids will go to school and thank you. Do not miss the lessons, but in particular in minority schools this creates confusion, and I would like to put this down for the Minutes of this House, if you have not read it, in order not to create impressions and misinterpretations that children are obliged to do so and in order not to create any issues with some teachers who might want to give another interpretation of what is in your good intentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u233	The President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis are called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to wish my colleague, Mr Alexiadis, for having been informed that he has an adventure with his health. We wish all the good and be with us again soon. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Plato, education is the second sun of people and precisely this radiation of the second sun serves the bill that we are discussing today. It is a bold, coherent package of reforms that liberates higher education from the Ministry's suffocating control. It is a package of reforms that establish evaluation at universities, linking it to the funding and production of scientific work. It is a package of reforms that strengthen research, and the removal of dull bureaucracy, which unfortunately has been deafening it for decades, as Members of Parliament know, who are also academics. This three-fold planning - evaluation - flexibility condenses the content and objectives of the provisions proposed today by the government majority. But I think their spirit is much wider. I'd say it's Catholic. Education - we say it many times in this Chamber - is an area of nationalism and since in our country, public education has always been a "believe" of social mobility and a lever of atomic advancement, it also emerges today as the political border between real progress and camouflage maintenance. So the big demands are now being asked for our country to respond. Our government raises the glove in the challenges of the times. For these positions, together with those on the economy and the security of citizens, it has been voted on by the citizens and it is determined to do so. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] At the beginning of the third decade of the first century with tough international competition, the technology race, the major challenges of climate change, the bets of green development, education takes the character of the most important investment for every place. It is no coincidence that all the advanced states link their future with it, particularly higher education and postgraduate research. Greece, unfortunately, is entering this war of knowledge stripped. Just last year, without preparation, without any academic evaluation, the country's academic map was reordered. On criteria purely elections just before the elections, new university departments of dubious sustainability were established throughout the territory, many of which - we remember well - were set up with parliamentary amendments accepted by the Minister in fact at the last minute. At the same time as this was the case, the independent authority responsible for the quality of the educational work, without objective performance criteria, was able to accumulate funds for the universities to share in the Ministry's fund, while the specific research accounts were'spending' on bureaucracy, resulting in more and more research projects leaving the Greek higher institutions. Indisputable witness, the European Research Index. In 2018, our country had nineteen thousand eight hundred fifty two scientific publications, England had two hundred eleven thousand, Germany eighty thousand, France a hundred twenty thousand, so much so much Italy. Of course, these are countries with a larger population and with a tradition in research and also per capita reduction, and you will understand the degree of delay. This delay gives the measure of the effort we have to do. But there is another aspect. The fact that, even in these difficult circumstances, Greece still restrains itself in the seventeenth place between thirty-eight states that the public university resists and produces and that despite the methodic "feeling" of the important reform of 2011, its workers, teachers, students, researchers insist on advanceing, overcoming the obstacles that the state itself often places. These islands of progress and excellence are here, they are with us, they invite us to multiply them through a comprehensive reform plan. I will say this again: I have deep faith in the Greek public university, but it will only really open its wings if it is given the opportunity to decide the same thing about his journey to knowledge and research, which this bill is trying to do. It is a proposal for freedom for public universities, a proposal for emancipation, a proposal for freedom, but also for responsibility at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, we are responding today with a bill which takes three important steps leading to Greek public universities in the new era. Step one: The country acquires a National Higher Education Authority, a body that comes to replace the old ADI, with enhanced responsibilities, but above all, it also constitutes an institutional counterweight to any interventions of the respective government, the Minister in question. It is, in fact, an independent body to promote the autonomy of education in relation to a centralised state-Paterouli. Because, from now on, a national authority will be the state's best archipelago in developing a long-term strategy for higher education, a strategy which - all of us will agree - must go beyond the horizon of the electoral cycle in question. That is precisely why, Minister, it must be made up of high-level, high-level academic persons. The President will be chosen by the Committee on Institutions and Transparency of the Parliament, while the members of the Supreme Council, as well as the Evaluation and Certification Council, will be appointed by the President of the Authority and by two first-degree teachers. Using independently, using international standards, scientifically determined, the members of the new authority will gradually contribute, methodically, to the redeployment, but also to the distribution of parts throughout the territory, and not anymore in terms of localisation or electoral robbery, but in the light of the existing needs and society as well as of the economy. But more centrally, however, the task of this new institution is the continuous evaluation of higher institutions, with criteria that will propose the productive role and the social dimension of universities so that each school can now follow its own dynamics, with measurable objectives constantly being upgraded. It is a process that is bridging with the next large section of the bill, which is no other than the bold step we are taking, to link the evaluation of universities to their funding. Thus, the funds of the state budget will not be made available on the basis of the plans of the Ministers, the interventions of MPs or of various groups of pressure, but in terms of performance in education and in the daily culture that will be formed through schools. The whole of the institutions will be scored through an expanded vendal criteria from their international scientific footprint, from the absorption of their graduates in the labour market, to respect for gender equality, to the provision of accessibility to people with disabilities in their daily operation, as is the case with all the universities in the world. Attention, however, the state continues to guarantee the sustainability of schools. The annual grant will be drawn up by 80% on the basis of objective data - number of students, cost of study, geographical location of each institution. But 20% will be determined by indicators which select the same quality of teaching, originality of scientific research, dynamic, extroversion. All this will be an incentive for greater government funding. The third important step taken by the bill is the liberalisation of research and innovation. These two indicators can today be central to all developed states, as the competitiveness of their economies hides, but in Greece, they are at risk of turning into a nightmare behind four letters: "EUKE", notorious special funds and research bills. They were created as a source of irrigation they were supposed to be the pioneers of scientific programs that were planted in Greek universities. In practice, however, they have come up with more and more dashing, opaque mechanisms, far from their goals. The Minister, like many colleagues, has set out concrete examples of the unbearable bureaucracy in the current framework of the operation of the special accounts, funds and research. That's a change. The new regulations exempt scientific operators from procedural burdens which we feel are completely unnecessary. The work of the PPE is simpler, faster, more transparent at the end, Minister, and less bureaucratic. The targeting of each program will be specified, its evolution will be monitored and its progress will be constantly measurable. This has also been a consistent demand for both researchers and universities throughout the country. We welcome it today. I am sure it will stimulate the innovation and research that the national economy so needs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have briefly presented the three major sections of the bill. It is a follow-up to many initiatives for higher education launched with an effort to restore genuine university asylum. They continued with the launch of foreignlanguage programs and the liberation of postgraduate studies and are accompanied by the intensity of cooperation with renowned institutions from other countries. During our recent visit to the United States, together with the Minister of Education, we had the opportunity to diagnose the greatest interest in American universities and technological institutions in cooperation with Greek universities. For example, in an open invitation that we made to diagnose this interest, to incorporate American universities into a programme for twelve universities to visit our country at the end of March, we had a hundred ninety American universities that showed interest in investigating the prospects for cooperation with Greek public academic institutions. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So you understand the enormous potential that is being opened in this area. I would also like to welcome the important effort made by the National University of Kapodistrian with the first foreign language program offered to students abroad by tuition - in my opinion - extremely reasonable for the quality of the knowledge it will provide and which it has already started to advertise abroad and I can tell you that it is of great interest from foreign students. After all, who would not want to come to study history, philosophy, classical studies in Greece, at the National Kapodistrian University? And yet all these very self-evident things - at least for our own party - have not been carried out for so many years. It is time to break this taboo of ideas and finally make all of us a big leap in the future. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The framework that we are implementing gives academic and research staff of the highest institutions incentives so that they can improve their scientific work and upgrade their own position at the same time. And students in this way will gain access to modern and higher qualifications curriculum programs, which automatically makes their degrees stronger and more competitive. But candidate students will also be selected as the evaluation process will provide them and their families with a clear and objective picture of the level of study of the school or the department they will eventually choose. Eventually, however, universities and this is the most important one, they will have the very opportunity to determine their course of management as well as resources. Of course, Minister, I would like to stress that in this way a burden of responsibility is now passed by the Ministry of Education in the administrations of public universities. Sometimes I feel that there have been manpower and administrations that might have been comfortable with this logic that in the end, the Minister or the Minister of Education should decide on all the important decisions. That changes now. Freedom, as I said before, means responsibility. And this responsibility will be reflected through the evaluation process which will eventually shift the burden of important decisions from the Ministry to the universities themselves. So at least I personally understand the concept of university self-government. Constitutionally guaranteed but, in practice, invalidated by a system that eventually made important decisions always in the Ministry's bureaucracy or ultimately the Minister himself. I would like to stress that the reforms we are talking about today and from which I believe that there will be great benefits for the public university will not cost a single euro, I repeat, not a single euro, to the public funds. Large changes often are not a question of money but of decision. On the contrary, I'd tell you. To be able to turn our country into a regional educational centre by attracting students from abroad, who will pay tuition fees so that they can study undergraduately or postgraduately in Greece, will enable universities to have an important additional source of revenue. The release of EPPs from the bureaucracy of the former regime will enable them to claim more research programmes, to be even more competitive in the European Research Charter. The bill also includes other provisions which I consider to be particularly important, such as the establishment for the first time in the country of a state certificate of informatics, but also the symbolic possibility that we give schools the opportunity to decide the same for school excursions. I remember the Minister telling me how many different stages of permits and signatures they needed to enable a school to make a student trip. That's changing now. We have enough confidence in their schools and addresses to be able to decide for themselves where to go on excursions. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis has made us realise that investment in education is a prerequisite for national survival. I believe that we are all leaving behind this fraudulent stereotype of a degree, which is simply the automatic passport for a certain job, either in the public or in the private sector. The times have changed and it is time to adapt to the new data. Today's students are the first to know that the university title they acquire should not be a dry paper. His special weight will be judged by the hard work that took place at the school that provided it. Strict judges of the future will no longer be a public service which will give someone who claims their entry into the public domain rather than an IP. The strict judges of the future will be others. It will be the changing society and the competitive economy. And that's why we don't stop. A comprehensive plan for reforms in secondary and primary education will be followed. We will do so by means of a method, with dialogue without surprises, although we have already described in great detail what our intentions regarding the reform of schools are. But we will hold this dialogue at the same time as the determination that it is time for us to return a page with new lessons, with new teaching methods that will again give teachers, teachers, teachers, managers and not the Ministry. In high school, high school, primary school, kindergarten finally beats the heart of knowledge. And as in pre-school education, in pre-school age, the skeleton of the characters of tomorrow's citizens is shaped in many and possible inequalities that children will accompany for the rest of their lives. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps in some of my words they sound like advice. But these are my political positions which I express in the language of truth. Without modern education, research and innovation, there is no new wealth and prosperity. Without prosperity and social cohesion there is no future for a place. This future is about to be built. Now we know and we can. Just the day before yesterday I saw a survey according to which almost eight out of ten Greeks, 78% if I'm not mistaken, he said that he was in agreement with the connection between university funding and their evaluation. It is another message of citizens' maturity. And I think that all the political forces have this message to listen to and keep up with the demand of society. The substance of the bill so far as I've been following this debate has encountered sporadic reactions. They were starting more than collaboratively rational and the need to defend the Civilian Opposition that followed. The academic community, however, in its large majority, was drafted in the spirit of the bill, agreed with its letter. It is good, then, for each Member before the roll-call vote to rethink his position before formulating an unfounded 'no'. The area of education requires the same sense of responsibility as national issues. And it would be good at last not to put the future of our young people in the arena of party competition. We can form a national consensus to build together the Greek public universities, with research projects that will strengthen the national economy, with modern studies that will eventually lead our children to good jobs with freedom and creativity for the next generations. And then, who knows, I may also share an old slogan that was heard from the left in amphitheaters: First in classes, first in the race. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u235	Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, you have a secondary right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u236	Thank you very much, Mr President. Listening to the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, I would like to observe three points. First of all, it is not true that the SYRIZA Government has made the proposals, as regards the major change in higher education institutions, without a plan. There was a specific strategy, as regards the integration of TEIs and the upgrading of overall higher education in our country. It has been done with a concrete plan and strategy, so that public higher education can go ahead without discrimination and inequality internally, for the new generation of our country, for growth and social cohesion. Furthermore, the establishment of the thirty-seven of these departments, which unfortunately have been frozen in their operation, has also been made following concrete suggestions from the educational institutions themselves and their congresses, and has not so far been sufficient justification, by the NDG Government because their activation is not progressing. The second point, which I would like to mention, said Mr Mitsotakis earlier, that this is a reform that comes to liberate the universities, mainly by referring to the punishing assessment of the HEIs of 20% of their funding. We fully agree with the evaluation. In addition, we have set specific evaluation procedures and alas if universities are not a continuous evaluation area. But, Prime Minister, the universities will not be released in this way, with the threat of reducing their credit by 20%. The result, which you will see very quickly, will unfortunately be manipulation, with regional universities staying behind, will be redistribution of resources in terms of higher education and the widening of major disparities in education. In particular, by setting quantitative criteria which may be appropriate in the private sector, but which are certainly inconsistent with higher education. I would also remind you, because we have to tell the reality in this Chamber, and because the Prime Minister mentioned it, that as far as foreign-language departments, which are something very positive, were launched by the SYRIZA Government, in cooperation with the International University, the specific programme you mentioned, in terms of the National Kapodistrian University of Athens, to be clear. In closing: Prime Minister, it is not true that there is no need for spending on education. At the time of the crisis, there was subscribing and subscribing. In 2015, the SYRIZA Government found a 34% reduction in education expenditure since the start of the crisis and a medium-term programme, which provided for a further reduction of 1 billion. The government of SYRIZA at the harsh memorial times, in which it was still our country, in 2016-2018 made a great increase in expenditure on education, which reached 2.9% of GDP. In fact, in the 2019 budget, the increase was 6.17%, when in this 2020 budget it is only 2.36%. The evaluation is also clearly needed, but there is also a need for substantial support from the public university. And since the Prime Minister has not referred to Article 50, I understand that there is a discomfort and an internal government in terms of the unconstitutional dimension of the violation of Article 16 of the Constitution in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u237	The Minister for Education, Mr. Niki Kerameos, has requested and will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u238	Thank you very much, Mr President. Four points. Point one: you said that no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Let me remind you that it has been done without academic criteria, without feasibility and sustainability studies, without even respecting the law you have passed. You voted for a law that said it was compulsory to consult the PPP and the PPP told the Morphics Commission that it did not deliver an opinion on one of the thirty-seven new university departments that you set up indiscriminately, arbitraryly, without any academic criteria. For that reason, because you spoke about a draft, I wonder whether this parliamentary amendment is different from the previous one, because there were differences as you remember, on the basis of which a university section was founded in the last few minutes of that meeting with a few lines of justification. Is that a plan for you an academic map? I put it in the Minutes, please. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Point 2, for the evaluation: It is clear that the Civic Opposition disagrees with the link between state funding and evaluation. I have not received an answer: What do you propose? The current system under which the Minister for Education is fully able to distribute state funding, as he judges? So, a system that favours customer relations? We are now, thanks to the Greek people, in power we say 'no'. We set limits and want objective quality criteria and criteria, because we believe in the Greek universities and believe that we should give them an incentive to improve further. Point three, foreign languages. The truth is it took over two years at the University of Athens to obtain approval. He has received multiple negative answers from the then Minister and, indeed, your government has legislated a provision providing that if a university wants to establish an English-language programme, it must necessarily cooperate with the International University. So, dear lady, we're changing that. We will shortly bring provisions which will fully liberalise foreign language programmes, so that each university can decide autonomously on the establishment of an English-speaking programme. And fourth point: First of all, the Prime Minister referred to the expenditure of this bill. It costs nothing to free the PPE programme, for example, to release the research. Not a single euro. It is a matter of political will. It does not cost the state anything to say 'I put an objectively 80% assessment of 20%'. They don't cost a single euro all of that. But you know what? The budget submitted increased the budget for education by EUR 113 million and provided for four and a half thousand permanent appointments to special education and five thousand permanent appointments to general education. What did SYRIZA do about all this? He said "no"! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] He also voted against increasing the government budget and permanent appointments! That's what SYRIZA did! That's how much he wants us to invest money in education. In fact, in the coming period, we are also tabling a more complete plan on how to increase the finances for education. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u239	Mr Vassiliade is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today concerns the neural area of education. Of course every piece of legislation that this House is making is important. However, I think that, in particular, we must be very careful and consistent in the area of education. This is because our interventions in education have a long-term impact. They affect our children, the citizens of the future. I think that I am expressing a large majority of the citizens when I say that we expect a great deal in this area from the New Democracy Government. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this draft law is in the right direction. In my opinion, it is making two important contributions to higher education, for which I will be specific. At the same time, it also introduces some operational arrangements at all levels, some of which I shall refer to briefly. The first important intervention concerns the establishment of the National Higher Education Authority in place of the Quality Assurance and Certification Authority in higher education. This is a new, upgraded body, structured in the standards of successful Europeans, mainly examples. Its enhanced responsibilities include the development of the national strategy for higher education, which in my view is right to leave the Ministry. The establishment, merger, abolition of universities, schools and departments should be carried out by effective criteria and methods, not by parliamentary amendments and by a customer logic. On the basis of the objective criteria which are laid down, there should finally be a university department and Pella, which has no one at present. Thus, it will be able to contribute to the National University Charter, either through the deep knowledge of rural issues, which it has with a rural development section, for example, or by exploiting its rich Macedonian cultural tradition in a part of history or archaeology. They shall also include the allocation of funding and at the same time the evaluation of these institutions and research units. Here I find the most important - in my opinion - innovation of the draft law, namely the linking of 20% of the funding of an institution by the evaluation process, and the remaining 80% will be allocated with clearly certain objective criteria. This innovation will motivate the Greek public university to plan over time and to adapt to modern educational needs. Unfortunately, we did not manage to change Article 16 of the Constitution nor in this recent Review. However, let us not laugh, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek public university is already competing with private institutions. And I am not referring both to the country, to Cyprus, to other European and non-EU countries. In order to be competitive, it has to be continuously improved. The method proposed by the Ministry in the current draft law is in this direction. The second substantial intervention concerns the investigation. Traditionally in our country research is considered of secondary importance, behind educational activity. In fact, for many years he had been demonized. Those who have studied in Greek universities remember the slogans: "Exit research from universities", as if it is not the university's most important place for research. It's like the university research isn't of primary importance. The draft law we are about to vote on today reorganises the framework for the operation of the special accounts for research funds. The EPPCs are the main and unfortunately in many cases the only financial instrument for the universities and research institutions in the country. The dreadful bureaucracy that exists to date often dissuaded from research initiatives, and often lacked valuable resources for human resources from the research project itself. This draft law reduces bureaucracy, simplifying procedures, interrupting the loss of resources due to non-absorbing, and in this case introduces a link between some of the funding from the State and the assessment of the institutions. With regard to the remaining arrangements of the draft law, I first stand out the introduction of the state certificate of informatics, which was really missing from the National Certifications System, and it concerns an important branch of skills that they will dominate if they do not monopolise the economy of the future. Also easy at last, I would say, to attract foreign students for short courses in Greek language. The Greek should today be one of the most widespread foreign languages in the mother tongue. The fact that it is not widespread is not due to the interest of the citizens of European and third countries, which remains increased, but to the inability of the Greek state to take relevant initiatives. This is therefore a Minister's initiative in the right direction. The second opportunity school trainees living away from the home of the structure in which they are in attendance are also guaranteed. There is no reason why they should not be part of the public school transport system. Multitude teachers are part of the specific transfer categories and are given priority from region to region, but also within the same region. This is another measure of the New Democracy Government to protect the multiple family. Finally, please, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to welcome the extensive consultation procedure that has been followed. For these reasons, I urge you to support the draft law to be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u241	Thank you. Mr. Paulakis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am one of those who embraced the slogan: 'First in courses, first in the race'. It was KNE's slogan, it wasn't so in amphitheaters. Gregory Pharakos had said this slogan, that we want people of free minds who know their science, know their subject matter and can at the same time fight for social justice, freedom, socialism, for another society. So because I was one of those who embraced the slogan - and neither was Mr. Mitsotakis, nor Mrs. Kerameos was to these people, because they did not study here at first - I will tell you another slogan that students will be shouting soon when you visit the Greek universities. Ma'am, do you know what you're gonna be called? "We bleed in the pan-Hellenic and you bring us paratroopers." You've reversed reality. You've turned your head around. You who are excellence, lasting effort, labor and fatigue, can explain to me, please, by abolishing the amendment that we have brought, which we had abolished Mr Arvanitopoulou's law that allowed the graduates of private colleges of indescribable value, why no one controls them, to participate in the appointments of the public - how do you now bring this thing? Are the perfect ones there? Is that their nest? A man who gets tired, a child of a poor people's family or a small and medium-sized family, for whom his family pays care and who gets tired, gets tired, sleeps, reads, succeeds, gives all-Greek and comes in, does he have to have a competitor who his family can, because of financial position, buy, buy - I repeat for the third time - buy a degree from such a college, such a kind of institution from here or outside? Let me tell you very much. You have no need to apply Union law. There aren't any things you're saying. It's all fake. What's got you is this. You came to power through a wide block of social forces that formed the anti-SYRIZA front. Now they have all come and say to you: 'Give me too, Barbas.' So the college owners, the ones we put terms and rules to come and say to you: 'Open us a profit field'. And that's what you're doing, why are you actually what you're creating? You say and close the eye to them: "Look, any family who manages and has money to you will come. Why should she get tired of giving all over Greece? With the result and the degree he will get, he will be able to claim a place." There's something else deeper, ideologically deeper. You know, the history of the social question in Greece has passed over time through the area of higher education. Too many of us in here, from all sides, have passed to the scientific and social school of higher education, which was a school and social mobility, which you say and say so again. You've got a ham - you've got it, you know it very well - that with what you're doing, you're stopping this social mobility? Those who have today, and I'm not talking about the bourgeoisie, I'm talking about some upper middle layers, it's this 15%-20% social force block that supports you. And you say: "You, my children, will be the ones who will be appointed your children" and not a child of a working family, of a rural family, as I am.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u243	40%.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u244	You'll be counting on me soon enough. Well, you'll be the ones who'll be the chosen ones tomorrow. And now you're not telling me anything else, since you so much want the best jobs that you're talking about for the universities, about the evaluation, about the other, and that this will be worthy of the degree, etc., why are you dismantling the working arrangements that we had implemented since August 19, when we got out of the memoranda on the basis of what BSE is asking for the release of redundancies, the salaries of the three hundred euros that came back, the reversal of the permanent part-time relationship that has been done in the last six months? Have you gotten a hamburger that in July unemployment was 16.9%? Now it's 17.2%. It'll soon come out, that's how it is. After five years of constant decline in unemployment it is the first semester to come up. It's because the growth came, and because it's getting ready and set the ground for the best jobs. You don't do that. Second question: can you explain to me again where you are the neoliberals, who are the ones who want to bring the new and innovation and the one and the other what Christianism it is that you give two million euros to the Boston Theological School at the same time as cutting off the free two-year programmes for PES graduates, sixty I think these programmes, which would be so costly? What will these two million euros offer, that is $2.5 million? Should some metropolitans get away from there and the archbishops go to jail? You are pillowing the religious and ancestorism and the patriodocaust of a part of the family to get a handkerchief tomorrow. That's where the Archdiocese, who owns this Theological School, and otherwise you're the neoliberal current, the power of darkness you're... [[Noise in the Chamber]] I'll say it openly. They write the homogenial pages - and disproved the fact that ten million euros have a deficit there, because they gave it to Patriarch Bartholomew by donations gathered to build Agios Nikolaos on the Zero point, where the Towers fell and they were lost. Now the American tax office is looking for them and not to go to jail you're pushing five million dollars back from last year and they're finding the other five credit cards to save the prison, because that's why you're doing it, and otherwise you're the neoliberal current. Well, let's go to something else. Mr President, I would like your tolerance for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u245	No, Mr. Polakis, you don't have two minutes. Hang up, please. You've been over time. It's gonna be a lot of people talking and they'll be by midnight. Finish in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u246	I wanted to say on the matter of financing, but I will not extend it to too many people. Yes, there's another way, Mrs. Kerameau. There's another way. Since when should the Minister be resented if he has a political plan to allocate funding, did I not understand that? Based on your logic, do you know what you're telling us? Your logic of driving this too alone, because there is another way to do it. What is the EPP? Isn't it the way a university, which deserves research and studies, gets more money? Why the 100% funding break it to 80% and 20%? You will lead to a reduction. Give what you have to give and increase more than we had increased from the seven billion to four, and we went back to six, and give more to the department that wants to innovate and investigate it gets from the PPE. The only right point of the bill is the simplification of the procedures of the PPE, but you say that Lovertos implemented this in 2012. This whole software, Andreas Lover made it. Well, let's go to the last one. Because you said a lot, Mrs. Kerameos, there's also Mr. Digalakis next to you. I am addressing you now, Mr. Digalakis. Why do you abolish the Department of Natural Mechanical Resources of the Hellenic Mediterranean University in Crete? There are three MPs from Chania. You say that we need to link the universities to the production of hydrocarbons under Crete, won't it? Won't there be demand in the coming years for chemical engineers that are the evolution of the Department of Natural Resources and Environment of TEI Crete? That's why you're removing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u247	Close, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u248	I'm filing out all the evidence of the Senate's decision...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u249	Give the data and complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u250	No, no, because Mrs. Keramea has lied a lot. Well, the senator's decision, the school assembly's decision, the multi-critical study analysis that says what it needs, the 350,000 more after the third semester to operate the department that will produce engineers who will have huge demand that will have expensive jobs tomorrow - the ones that are abolished tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u251	All right, Mr. Polakis. You've been over ten minutes. You have no special treatment. Please warmly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u252	This is the falsification...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u253	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u254	I shall conclude, Mr President. Don't get upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u255	Look at the rest of you, they respect the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u256	I put it in the Minutes, because Mrs Kerrameo has tabled various amendments. Why don't you tell us where the city is? Are you afraid that your Member of Parliament is there? Why don't you tell us the town where those sections were founded? Why don't you tell us? I tell you that if this is closed, Mr. Digalakis, it will be your fault, it will be Mrs. Bakoyannis, it will be Mr. Voloudakis for Chania. And instead of working on the real estate on the Kastelli hill to work on this department. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u257	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u258	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u259	First of all, I would like to state about the practical legislative improvements to the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u260	Secondly, I would like to make a point, because this is the most important time when a SYRIZA official is talking about reducing funding. But how little trust...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u261	I didn't say a reduction...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u262	You said the word'reduction', to refer to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u263	Mr. Polakis, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u264	You said the word'reduction'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u265	I said "let's give it more".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u266	I challenge you to refer to the Minutes. And you're not the only one. There are a lot of SYRIZA executives who systematically talk about 20% reduction. Well, here's the difference between SYRIZA and New Democracy. We believe in the Greek universities, we believe in the human potential of universities, and we believe that they have all universities the guarantees to get quality criteria. You're the one who's going down, because you don't believe in the Greek universities. To be clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u267	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u268	The State Secretary, Mr. Digalakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Polakis, I am pleased that your position has shown exactly this difference in the values that we represent. We said growth with criteria, with planning, with independent authorities. You insist on the criteria for old, old-fashioned, micro-political. You thought that since I am from Chania, I have been elected MP in Chania, you would embarrass me not to do anything horizontal, not to apply this to all of Greece, but to exclude Chania. You're wrong, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u270	Mr Mamulakis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u271	Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill could be entitled 'The three burials of the public and free education of Mrs Kerameos'. With the exception of positive regulations on flexicurity of the PPEs with today's bill, the government and the leadership of the Ministry of Education seek to deprive and downgrade our country's higher education in three distinct ways. Firstly, through linking university funding to their evaluation. We have repeatedly said that SYRIZA also agrees with the evaluation of our university institutions, but the function of evaluation with funding entails great risks for the creation of universities and higher education institutions in general and for two speeds. Secondly, through the equalisation of the professional rights of graduates in private colleges with those of graduates in public universities. And thirdly, through the closure of a large number of new academic departments. With the transformation of the IPP into the New National Higher Education Authority, the Ministry is in fact doing nothing but dismissing responsibility for the establishment, determination of the feasibility and functioning of all academic departments of the country. In this way, a purely political decision, which is what higher education suits the citizens of our country, is transferred to a body of experts under the law which governs the functioning of the new authority, will only be able to give an opinion on the basis of market criteria. However, the main problem with the provisions on the new PPP is the linking of the results of the evaluation, which I mentioned earlier, of the universities carried out by the new authority with the financing of universities, as provided for in Article 16 of this draft law. Besides - what a tragic irony - Article 16 of this bill with Article 16 of the Constitution will differ further. Ladies and gentlemen, the measure of university funding with evaluation criteria comes into effect in specific circumstances that have arisen in the years of the crisis. It will be implemented within a framework of over a decade, which has only partially been tackled, mainly over the last two years. It will be implemented in conditions of extreme sub-station and ageing of our scientific staff. Therefore, the measure of university funding with evaluation criteria will lead with mathematical accuracy to the intensity of disparities between different institutions in the country. The already developed universities, the best staffed and those with dynamic and competitive research infrastructures will draw on more resources. On the other hand, those which have not yet established strong research arms will not be able to obtain this possibility because of their underfinancing and will be led, by manoeuvring, to a vicious sub-financing cycle and, ultimately, to depreciation. Moreover, the equalisation of the professional rights of graduates in colleges with those of graduates in public universities leads to a complete depreciation of the value of the diplomas of the latter. At the same time, the first, after years, major competitions of the AACC that are currently under way are being undermined, as their results will sink into a sea of objections, which will result from the legal undeterminedness that this regulation is causing. Under Article 50, Article 16 of the Constitution, which protects the social good of public higher education, is effectively abolished. At the same time, of course, the performance of full professional rights to the graduates of colleges also operates in addition to the last one in this bill, namely the final closure of thirty-seven - I stress, thirty-seven - under the establishment of new academic departments. Young students, who would be absorbed in the new innovative academic fields created by the previous government and are now artificially abolished, are heading toward the various IEKs, who unfortunately carry the booze of an unexistent English university. Allow me here, however, to refer a little more to the treatment of the newly established Greek Mediterranean University, the founding of which was also passed by the Members of the New Democracy. The establishment of these departments was led by the then Minister of Education, Mr.Gavroglou, following a meeting of a committee made up of academic renowned prestiges, headed by the President of the Foundation for Technology and Research. On this occasion, ELMEPA's founding law was pressed. With regard to these sections, the academic community and the society of Crete have received no response for the reasons why the establishment of the new departments does not meet academic criteria, as the current leadership of the Ministry states. For the departments, which are currently being abolished, there are committees in progress which are responsible for identifying the curriculum and the required infrastructure of the relevant departments. Indicative of the preparation that has been made, for example, in Agios Nikolaos the municipality, in collaboration with the administration of the Hellenic Mediterranean University, have already identified the areas where the sports infrastructure of the now abolished Department of Physical Education and Sport would be developed. These sections would not be included in 2020, but in 2021, and therefore there was plenty of time for their staffing and well-being. In fact, what was targeted was the Greek Mediterranean University's development program for political reasons and, unfortunately, not academics. Indicative of the style and ethos of governance of Mr Digalakis, who also bears his origin from the island, is my corollary, after all, that the administration of the institution was informed - please note this - on the same day that the relevant ministerial decision was adopted. The academic community, in other words, was neither asked nor asked to place itself on the subject, which also illustrates the way in which my fellow State Secretary is aware of the concept of the self-resident of the universities. Ladies and gentlemen, today's law does not honor you or the academic community of the country, which has already expressed a negative attitude to the draft law in question. For this reason, we call on you at the last minute to withdraw the insults of the Constitution Articles 16, 33 and 50. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, too, for keeping time. I call to Stepma Mr. Thraniotis from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, too, to wish my colleague, Tryphoon Alexiades, quickly and successfully to deal with the problem. Allow me, too, from this step by step to make a reference to a friend, colleague and colleague, who left early in life, a colleague who honoured with his morality, honesty and goodness Parliament, Antonis Balomenaki. I hope and believe that the House will give due respect to it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the draft law of the Ministry of Education, of which certain provisions affect the core of public education, since it provides for the suspension of the operation of thirty-seven new university departments, the financing of universities on the basis of their evaluation, and the appointment of teachers in public education with a college degree without recognition. The proposed changes come to realise a obsessed perception, which is at the heart of the New Democracy's policy, which is no more than 'the lesser state of air in the private sector'. It is a highly neoliberal concept, adapted to the idea of 'when few have a good time, then many must be persuaded that they can survive with less, even EUR 200', as your Minister says. Hate the one trying to square the cycle, but when he does not succeed because the laws of physics do not allow it, then he tries to distort reality. We must recognise that you are doing well in this respect. What are you really seeking, with the recognition of colleges, a memorandum commitment that SYRIZA abolished with the exit from the memoranda in August 2018? The Ministry, invoking Community law, seeks academic recognition of college degrees. One might wonder that 'what is wrong with this?' And yet there is. Because the body responsible for the academic equivalence, which is the IATAP, is effectively abolished. Degrees which are indivisible, without control of colleges for their time schedule, the qualifications of teachers and infrastructures are recognised. In short, without control of the quality of the education provided. But you cannot selectively invoke European law. Because legislation must also protect teachers, which in practice is not what happens when we have various-speed teachers in wages and working rights. The Minister mentioned earlier that students should have the right to education. That's right! It is, however, coming to punish three years for suspending their right to be appointed when they do not appear in the post to be appointed. There are, however, too many examples of assistant teachers who go somewhere to get work, but they don't find a home to rent and stay in cars for a long time until they find room to stay or resign from this right they have. It is worth pointing out the risks behind the 80 % provision for funding universities and 20% as a premium for their presence. This is a choice aimed at depreciating public university departments, which, in order to survive in the new competitive conditions, will have to operate in terms of private business. In other words, Article 16 of the Constitution, which guarantees public and free education, is being circumvented. It is well known that universities have a reduction in funding due to the country's bankruptcy, the enforcement of the memorandums - your own achievement, so that we do not forget - and also your well-conscious political choices. SYRIZA government increased the state budget by 45% in the middle of memoranda and now comes the Ministry to say that it will only give 80% of state funding and the rest after evaluation. Many colleagues have referred to the technical details of the annual financing of universities, as well as the evaluation every four years. If, in fact, you want to support public universities and give incentives for improvement, you could, Minister, introduce additional funds beyond the state budget, but since they were sufficient, to be given to universities, when they innovate, as a reward. With regard to the suspension of the thirty-seven university departments, in order to justify your decision you have appealed to the friendly tactical conclusion of the SYRIZA government's policy. You are trying to justify the suspension of the newly established sections, with the aim of abolishing them, claiming that they were also set up for election purposes by the previous government, without sufficient documentation. It is well known, however, that the Hellenic Mediterranean University was founded by Law 4610/2019. For the first time after forty years of the University's operation in Crete, a thorough and documented study was put in Lasithi University departments, after consultation and with the support of local society. The School of Physical Education and Sport Sciences in Agios Nikolaos and Physics in Ierapetra were added to Lasithi. This proposal, combined with the already operating Departments of Nutrition and Dietology in Sitia, Economic Administration in Agios Nikolaos, as well as the Center of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation in Naples, which proceed in cooperation with the Region of Crete, create synergy between them and have a common goal, improve human quality. So here is what would result in coupled with tourism, the primary sector, the natural and cultural reserves, which create favourable prospects for Lassithi to develop spectacularly further. Mrs Mamulakis, may I make a reference to the reply you gave to Mr Mamulakis on the matter of the abolition of university departments. You say that the report was submitted, and the decision of the Senate had not been reached at the Ministry of Education. Let me remind you - you know better than I do - that on the basis of Law 4619 the Senate's decision may be submitted until 30 April. I am sure - and I am aware of this - that the Hellenic Mediterranean University has proceeded with the preparation of the study, particularly as regards the School of Physical Education and Sport and is ready to submit it to the limit set by April 30, 2019. Additionally, in your reply in February 2019 to the university's placement, you referred to the three counties, Chania, Rethymnon and Heraklion. Lassithi, where the new departments are located, you forgot about it. I don't know if you've forgotten why she's falling a little away from Lassithi or if you're squeezing the joke, which is circulating, that And she doesn't have four prefectures, these three: Chania, Heraklion and Rethymnon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u274	I call to Stepma Mr. Zabeck Hussein from SYRIZA. He has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I too wish good recovery and passing on to my companion and friend, Hurricane Alexiadis. Today's meeting reminds us of situations of the past, when all the educational world reacted and prevented the anti-educational arrangements and circumvention of Article 16 of the Constitution. It would therefore be appropriate to recall this article, which provides that education is a basic task of the state, that all Greeks have the right to free education at all levels, that higher education is provided exclusively by institutions, which are legal entities governed by public law, with full self-government, while those institutions are under the supervision of the State, are entitled to be financially supported by it and the establishment of higher schools by private individuals is prohibited. If we look at Article 16, on points it is clear that this draft law affects provisions of the Constitution. Starting from Articles 1 to 19, we see the abolition of the Quality Assurance and Certification Authority in higher education and its conversion to a National Higher Education Authority. After 15 years of operation of the PPP, the Government shall change the name, the way in which the administration is elected, its responsibilities and intervene with the independent authority by dismantling its administration. It is trying to create a new state-controlled authority and not independently, under the supervision of the Ministry of Education. The most unfortunate thing, however, is that it alters the funding of universities by defining that HEIs will be financed by 80%, on the basis of the general criteria, i.e. the number of students, the size of the university and the cost per student, while the remaining 20% will be provided after an endless hunt of specific criteria defined by the market. More specifically, in order to obtain the rest of the funding, the university will have to achieve some indicators of quality and achievement, research activity, internationalisation, interconnection with the labour market and, if it does not succeed, it will lose that figure. This provision opens a window to reduce the financing of universities, which over ten years have been underfunded, and introduces models of financing applied to the market. No one will be able to guarantee the independence of universities and research work, as they will lead to a search for resources outside the public sector, by way of derogation from the Constitution, while regional universities will be affected much more. By continuing to see that, following the suspension of the two-year vocational training programmes, for PESA graduates and free access departments, the Government is indefinitely suspending the operation of the thirty-seven new PES departments. Let us remember that these departments were proposals from the universities themselves and their abolition circumvents their self-government. The provision mainly affects regional universities. One of these is the Democritus University of Thrace, which, in cooperation with the government of SYRIZA, had tabled concrete proposals for setting up new departments, which were very important to the local society. The current government, however, seems to be deceptively deceptive. I would also like to refer to a very important and topical subject, that of the notice for the appointment of primary and secondary education teachers. Applications that have already begun for primary school teachers deserve to be reminded that state law has been made by the SYRIZA Government. Law 4589/2019 came a year after our country came out of the memos. Our government's aim was to reintroduce one by one to the recruitment to the public, with priority to the recruitment of teachers after eleven years of aptitude. Not only did you vote against this law, but you also mocked it. You have delayed as far as possible the recruitments to special education and within the holidays of Christmas you have received the invitation for teachers of general education, without specifying exactly how many teachers will be recruited by industry. This is the case for minority education teachers IP73 of the minority education programme. Their request is to cover the available organic positions, so that the SYRIZA Government's initiative that included in the planning of minority education is not lost. We therefore call on you to recruit at least those teachers who already work substitutes, who are under fifty in number, as minority education is extremely subordinated and the government needs to show whether or not it is supported. Finally, the tragedy seen by this draft law is the recognition of diplomas from private colleges. You bypassed Article 16 of the Constitution, underestimated public free education by equilibrium with the college degrees. The whole educational world has reacted and you are deaf. The Ministry of Education with this article shows incredible enthusiasm and apparently tries to do the privatization of education by exploiting the anguish of thousands of deputies who run to testify to their documents and you throw their qualifications out of the window. I think the current leadership of the Ministry of Education with this bill showed the most reactionary and non-educational examples of writing. It stumbles on the constitutional safeguarding of education and laughs at teachers. I therefore call on you to withdraw Article 50 and finally to become a little clearer with the appointments of teachers, appointments for which the SYRIZA Government has worked hard and has ensured, despite the suffocating financial framework. We will in any case be here to protect education and the educational world against your own education depreciation policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u276	Mr. Kouvelas Dimitrios from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u277	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law at last lays the foundations for the restructuring and, above all, the modernisation of the operation of higher education in our country, with university institutions autonomous, self-sufficient and, above all, extroversion into practice now and not in words. The university prepares tomorrow's professionals in each sector and it is therefore absolutely essential that they be on a parallel and common footing with the labour market. Thus, the university should closely monitor developments and be a pioneer in both theory and research. The fourth industrial revolution was almost complete. Our university should at least be associated with her. The first and necessary step achieved by this draft law is the substantial strengthening of the independent authority, the PPP so far, which ensures the quality of higher education, through the establishment of the new National Higher Education Authority. There are three main axes to this bill, as presented in detail by the Ministry of Education's leadership in the work of the committee responsible. The first axis concerns the National Higher Education Authority established with specific objectives. First of all, the existing powers with regard to certification are expanded, the principle is strengthened with new, individual responsibilities, its members are now selected by additional guarantees and, furthermore, there are two important and important councils, which will assist the work of the authority. It shall be the Board and the Evaluation and Certification Board. The establishment of the new principle constitutes strengthening, protecting and, of course, upgrading our higher education. The University in Greece is now commonplace that in recent years it has been deceived. The education of young people has been dealt with with with horrific and ideological syndromes of other times. It also operated as a bunker sanctuary and asylum for illegal activities. Now, once the asylum regime has been upgraded, one of the first and very important reforms of the Mitsotakis Government, we give the university the distinctive place it deserves in a favoured and organised state. The second axis of the bill relates to the liberalisation of the PPE accounts, i.e. the Research Fund Special Accounts, which is the central tool for research funding, carried out at universities and research and technology bodies. The new legislative framework seeks to avoid the bureaucratic turbulence of the existing framework, which has so stumbled in this case at universities, and to achieve greater flexibility in the functioning of these specific accounts while increasing accountability and transparency. So more research programmes will be put in place and we will thus reverse the trend towards the underreporting of available European funds. Finally, under the former regime research at our universities was led to underfunding. This will prove to be in the interest of new researchers who are thirsty for incentives to stay in our homeland rather than undone abroad for better luck. On the other hand, we cut the distribution of money to universities. To date this has been done some as every minister wanted. It could, in other words, decide so much, much smaller than the available funds, to go to more or less, even to a university institution. That's a change. Strict and fair criteria are being introduced. Regular university funding of 80% will now be allocated on the basis of objective criteria relating to the number of students, the type of the respective curriculum and the geographical location of each institution. In particular, the latter will be an incentive to attract and valueworthy external researchers and collaborators to the "current" programmes of universities in the border regions and our islands. Recently we discussed the Democritus University in Thrace where ideas and appetites exist many of the teachers there. However, it is difficult to attract - and this is what we were told - remarkable external partners because of the very low remuneration resulting from the limited funding provided by the research programmes. Therefore, objective criteria for 80% of the regular funding and for the remaining 20%, this will be linked to quality criteria, such as, for example, the size of the research activity developed by a specific institution, how many research funds have already been used in previous years, how many Greek students send for training programmes abroad, how many foreign students finally attract to the Greek university, as well as what kind and especially the number of partnerships they conclude with relevant foreign educational institutions. Even what are the possibilities of accessing small and medium-sized enterprises in these universities. In other words, evaluation indicators will also act as incentives for upgrading the university and procedures. The third axis concerns other arrangements aimed at resolving operational school problems from school to school support. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to a very sensitive and delicate issue, which is not one of the many teachers. I am pleased that, as a new Member of Parliament from the beginning of this governance, I can see that there is very much confrontation with both the Minister and the responsible Secretary-General in order to meet the legitimate demands of these fellow citizens. With this draft law, we are paying particular attention to supporting the multitude of family. Multitude teachers will now be able to join special transfer categories and so, as a priority, move from both region to region and within the region itself. I would therefore suggest that we all bend together on the issue of the appointment of multitude teachers and, above all, on the review of the criteria and molecules given to them. The molecules cannot be just three for each child, for every minor child. We must see this again, ladies and gentlemen. The times we have spent, ladies and gentlemen, are demanding and the new societal challenges are great. One thing is certain: the main pillar of progress for Greece was and it will always be its education. And since we talk about education, we always come to mind talk of great ancient Greeks. So Diogenes said that education for young people is sound, for poor riches and for rich ornament. Let us not forget that in the end, ladies and gentlemen, everything is a matter of education. I too support the vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u278	Mr. Ioannis Pascalides from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President. Ministers, the innovative regulation of this draft law, which provides for the financing of educational institutions to be carried out through evaluation, is the great change in the field of education, which even represents an overall change of attitude, since, to date, each Minister has been able to decide on the basis of the financing of HEIs. Thus, with the new bill, powers are being dismantled from the Ministry of Education to universities, and objective and qualitative funding criteria are laid down. More specifically, in Chapter I of this Bill, Articles 1-19, the new principle of higher education under the title of the National Authority of Higher Education, the objective of which is to reward the effort, as to date there have been no objective criteria and criteria of merit. The National Higher Education Authority will replace the limited and pre-existing Quality Assurance and Certification Authority in Higher Education. It will be composed of the President, who will be chosen by the Ministerial Council, following an open public notice to Greek universities in Greece and abroad, the Supreme Council, the Evaluation Board and the Director-General, while the specific responsibilities will be the National Strategy Programme for Higher Education and the allocation of the annual grant budget at the IITs. The most important task of the national authority through its Board of Governors, of course, will be to allocate 20% of this funding through evaluation, which will in fact be the incentive to the HEIs to improve on objectives that they choose, within the framework of their autonomy, for example in the quality of education, research activity, outward-looking actions, while the remaining 80% of the regular grant will be allocated to HEIs according to the total number of students registered, the estimated cost of study per student, the geographical spread of the Foundation, etc. In particular, the Assessment and Certification Council will be responsible for the evaluation of EITs, the fulfilment of the quality requirements for organising curricula I, II and III cycles, the certification of internal quality assurance systems for EITs and curricula, as well as for carrying out thematic evaluations of EITs, in particular as regards the internationalisation strategy, gender equality, access for disabled people, extroversion, etc. If an IIT fails to achieve the quality indicators to which it has chosen to be assessed, then the grant it will not receive as a consequence of its assessment will be allocated as a grant for the other IITs. It is also worth noting that the institution of excellence comes back and under Article 19 of this draft law, the emergence of centres of excellence in higher education is institutionalised. Criteria for the promotion of centres are the excellent quality and effectiveness of teaching and research work, the linking of teaching and research, etc. In Chapter B of this Legislation, Articles 20-27, an important part of the provisions of the Eighth Chapter of Law 4485/2017 is certified and a more flexible and adaptable framework is established for specific research funds accounts, which are the central tool for financing research carried out at universities and research and technology bodies. Thus, the new legislative framework seeks to avoid the bureaucratic obstacles to the existing framework and achieve greater flexibility and functioning of the PPECs, while at the same time increasing accountability and transparency, while brake the loss of research resources. Chapter III of the Bill, Articles 28-32, starts with Article 28, which introduces the State Certificate of Informatics for the first time in our country, which is obtained by exams and will certify the knowledge of computer handling in the processing of computer sheets and Internet services, while allowing for the extension, by decision of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, of certification to other digital objects. In Chapter D, Articles 33-58, and in particular Article 33, the start of the thirty-seven new departments established by the previous Government is suspended, since their evaluation procedure has not been complied with by the competent bodies. Compliance with this procedure will make it possible to assess the new parts by the new authority, on the basis of which they are linked to the market. In order to attract students from abroad, Article 43 of the bill makes it easier to attract foreign students to learn Greek. In addition, as the Minister said, the aim of the Ministry is to strengthen initiatives for the extroversion of Greek HEIs, such as summer curricula, where students will combine studies with holidays, as well as synergies between Greek and foreign HEIs, expressing the appreciation that by 2024 some forty to fifty thousand foreign students will participate in English-speaking courses of classical literature, philosophy and ancient history. It is, indeed, very important that Greece is finally planning to make use of its cultural and historical wealth to attract Chinese and other foreign students to universities, as part of the broader reform of higher education. It is notable to regulate Article 55, where, in view of the protection of the multitude of families, the multitude of teachers now fall into specific transfer categories so that they may be transferred from region to region as a priority, but within the same region. To sum up, I would like to mention that this bill is the beginning so that the Greek universities have acquired the extroversion that had been lost in recent years as institutions, and have the opportunity to obtain more funding instruments beyond the state budget, giving, for example, incentives for donations, private-public-public partnerships and patent revenues. We want the public education system to be strengthened, and that is why the 2020 budget has been strengthened by EUR 113 million. We want the internationalization of our universities. We want our country to become a higher education centre in south-eastern Europe, and we are sure that we will achieve this, since the new institutional framework not only sets out criteria for establishing sections on the basis of a comprehensive strategic planning, but initiatives such as the liberalisation of study programmes and the establishment of foreign-language departments are being strengthened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u280	I would ask Mr. Spiritual from New Democracy to speak for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u281	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the government with this bill restores public higher education to the level that it deserves and is indeed the level that all Greek citizens are claiming to send their children to the public university. We have learned to mislead and underestimate the public university as a result of the image of lawlessness, of bad infrastructures, of lack of organisation, of bureaucracy, of unregulated creation of schools and departments, of all these sufferings, that is, of stateism. As in the health sector, we must distinguish public education from state education. The Constitution ensures access to a modern, advanced public higher education system for all young people, with the highest possible level, which will prepare them for the future and the labour market. And yet, our universities have remarkable teachers, with international publications, an important research project that competes with the largest foreign universities. Our students differ wherever they are found and are sought on the international labour market. I am one of them, and I must say that the University of Athens gave me all the facilities I needed to meet the international competitive environment, without any delay to the graduates of the renowned centres. So the question is why, unfortunately, all this is not reflected in the international indicators or in the image of the Greek universities. A common admission, therefore, is that we want our children to study at the best universities and give them the best supplies for the future, which can justify the trouble of their own and their families and bring them to the forefront of the modern labour market. In order to do this, it obviously needs a strategic plan and an assessment, no matter how panic some are hearing that word. There must be a strategic plan, because the objects taught must introduce young people into the labour market, not for now but for ten years later. In planning today’s education we must see the future, those branches that will emerge in the next decade. It needs to be evaluated precisely for adapting to the increasingly evolving needs and markets. Both these axes exist in this draft law with the establishment of the National Higher Education Authority of the NISA with increased independence, enhanced responsibilities in relation to the ADI and the main objective of a long-term strategic project in the field of higher education through a restructuring of the academic map on the basis of objective and qualitative criteria and not of political purposes, the conclusion of programming agreements with universities enabling them to develop their own strategic design and link the annual grant to objective criteria but also to rate indicators, but also adapted to the character and potential points of each university. The opposition stands at this point to criticise the bill. But logic here is not punishable. The aim is to give an extra incentive and reward to universities to escape the stagnation that is the enemy of progress, to innovate and evolve. I cannot, of course, as an academic, raise the question of the underfunding of the Greek universities or even of the remaining funding in relation to the fixed needs over time. I think that our next major objective should be the greatest investment in higher education, coupled with moves to strengthen the quality of the education project - which are already being carried out - will give the country a real impetus as a whole. At the same time, our institutions must also be able to claim more money not only from state resources but also through forms of cooperation with the private sector, donations and PPPs. All this must always be in addition to the existing budget. That must therefore be made clear. Do we want universities that produce citizens of the world and scientists with the highest level of knowledge and training, or universities that will make armies of unemployed people, who will be looking for Members' political offices for a job? That is the main question. Particularly important are the arrangements for the release of the PPE, this tight bureaucratic framework of public accounting. Without exaggeration with the existing framework, every project needs a man exclusively to deal with bureaucratic procedures and payment orders. The clergy of course fall into the scientific person, who loses his role and essentially by an academic researcher is converted into an accountant, even for costs such as graphics. Our Undersecretary, Mr. Digalakis, presented earlier some evidence of a comparison of the management requirements of a university, which exceeds tens of thousands of acts with those of a hundred thousand inhabitants. This is a reality and the nightmare that we must live every time when we want to manage the EPP's funds and funds today. Restrictive arrangements stifle creativity, discourage research effort and ultimately lead to the loss of money, which could be exploited for the benefit of universities as a whole, and in many cases are based on the specific accounts for modernising their infrastructures and covering significant costs. It is of course understandable that the PPE should be excluded from the public accountancy, where it entered in the light of greater transparency. Perhaps this was one way to increase the State's cash reserves. In any case, with no impact on transparency and accountability, the new regulations introduced are more flexible, significantly reduce the bureaucratic burden on research programmes and allow for better use of all resources through the possibility of amending the budget. After all, that is the character, because a research project is constantly evolving. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the suspension of the various parts that have recently been created. We know that many of these departments have been established without certain evidence of a specific need, without the resources, infrastructure and teaching staff being guaranteed in many cases and - as you have said - with an amendment to serve clearly non- academic purposes and without looking at the needs of society. Of these thirty-seven sections, the eight would start in 2020. Among these are two sections of the University of Athens, which are to be founded in Psachna, Evia, which concern farming and tourism. In any case, the examination and evaluation of these sections will hopefully proceed directly within the new authority and in accordance with the framework introduced by this draft law in these sections to be assessed by priority and, if they fulfil the conditions, in the 2020 computer, as originally planned. I would also like to mention for a moment the accommodation of students in the Psachnas, where additional support is required to cover students who can no longer be served by the Evripos complex. Finally, I would also like to refer to the procedure for the recruitment of temporary staff for TEI. I know that you have already shown a great deal of interest in this matter, Minister, and I know that you have made a very great effort. We hope that the last stage will be completed, which will be very important for the proper functioning of many of these sections. Ladies and gentlemen, investment in higher education, knowledge, is an investment in the future of our country. The pillars on which each country relies if it wants to move forward are history, education and language. Through evaluation, design, documentation and support for research effort, we provide supplies and opportunities for young children to take our country and society beyond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u282	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u283	Thank you very much, Mr President. If you will allow me to say for two minutes about the amendments. First of all, the Ministry of Education has tabled an amendment, which concerns three issues. First of all, the EEA. They are arrangements for the use and payment of the EEAS budget of external specialised partners for evaluations, audit and examination procedures. The same amendment regulates the issues of compensation to those involved in carrying out examinations or certification in 2018, for which the previous political leadership did not care when. There is also a regulation abolishing the National Human Resources Education and Development Council due to the ineffective and orderly functioning of the Board. It is also characteristic that the ESRB in its recommendation did not work in a coordinated manner. It also provides for the same arrangements for the placement of special educational staff and special assistants as special education teachers in the run-up to appointments. So this is the ministerial amendment with a general number of 131 and a specialist 2, which is accepted. Ministerial amendment under general number 132 and special 3 of the Ministry of Development is also accepted. And there are four Members' amendments. The amendment with a general number 133 and a special number 4 by Mr Phillips and Mrs Jufi in relation to an amendment to Article 99 is not acceptable. It is a long-term amendment. Amendment No 129, and Amendment No 1 by Mr Marcos and Mrs Anagnostopoulos, cannot be accepted. There will be a more general regulation on the various benefits of mergers, the absorption of TEIs by the universities, which the previous political leadership has made. Unfortunately, they are the benefits of this process, which we will come to regulate in a comprehensive and structured way in a forthcoming draft law. There are two amendments concerning Mandras and the disasters in Eye with similar content. One is Mr. Arvanitides, Mr. Kegeroglou and Mrs. Kefalidou, and the second is Mr. Bura and Mr. Kotsira. The amendment by Mr Bourra and Mr Kotsira to a general number of 135 and a specialist 6 is accepted because it is more comprehensive, despite the fact that it is very close to the essence of Mr Arvanitides, Mr Kegeroglou and Mrs Kefalidou, although the contents of this report are not acceptable to the substance of Mr Bourras and Mr Kotsiras. In short, Mr President, the only amendment tabled by the Members is the 135 amendment and a special 6 by Mr Bourras and Mr Kotsiras. And I conclude by saying: Mrs Kefalidou has proposed some legislative improvements to Article 33, because she has had a concern about whether they are affected by this arrangement of programmes already in operation at the National School of Public Health. There is a special reference to the last subparagraph of this provision, which provides in particular for the continuation of the programmes, the already operating programmes and therefore the postgraduate programmes of the National School of Public Health. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u284	Thank you too, Minister. Mrs Papakostas - Palioura Katerina from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u285	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today, at an important meeting for the Greek Parliament, we are discussing a bill which finally comes to place things in the structure and functioning of higher education, but also to define the starting point for the transformation of the model and the attitude with which higher education, research and development must function from now on. With this bill, the Ministry of Education proceeds to a series of areas and structural reforms, such as the National Authority of Higher Education with enhanced responsibilities, the liberalisation of research through the creation of a new framework for ΕΚΕ, the introduction of a state certificate of informatics, the strategic policy on the quality upgrading of higher education, the safeguarding of the administration of the International University of Greece, the strengthening of the attraction of foreign students, the rehabilitation and recognition of professional rights in accordance with European Union law, the care for the multiple family and the safeguarding of the uninterrupted functioning of our schools. The above are some of the most important points in this bill as they restore injustices, deal with arrhythmias and ensure those prospects needed for a modern and effective educational system. In a long process of dialogue with all involved actors and civil society a live consultation brought together all the views and assessments of the parties involved and a bill was finally drafted that covers basic obligations. After all, as we have stressed many times, this government, the Government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis, has the priority of its education and extroversion. With the proposed arrangements in this draft law, we are now laying down rules for a modern and functional independent authority, which will also form the national strategy for higher education. A strategy that will contain the concepts of evaluation, certification and quality assurance of services provided by our educational institutions will identify and implement best practices around the world in order to radically reform the structure and functioning of higher education. Replacement of the IPP by the HRC is the first step. Enhancing the responsibilities and role of the national authority in relation to the Quality Assurance Authority we confirm the determination to complete and substantial upgrade our universities. We are introducing a number of innovations, such as the provision of funding for institutions also depends on their evaluation, which clearly leads to the continuing support and upgrading of schools. We certify the curriculum before they begin and not during the course. We examine the possibilities and conditions for sections I, II and III cycles to be operational and attempt the self-assessment of research centres. At the same time we are dealing with arrhythmias in academic research through the creation of a more flexible and adaptable framework for the operation of specific research accounts in order to form the source of funding, innovation and development within our universities. To date, we all know, ladies and gentlemen, millions have been lost by academic research because of mismanagement. Today we must finally put an end to this. The programme budget thus becomes self-evident, distinct from the other projects of the research centre. We stop the logic of division budgets per year for multi-annual programmes and draw up global budgets, while budget reforming is now carried out quarterly without the burden of researchers. At the same time, we are simplifying the procedures and the bureaucracy of undertaking from the investigator so that we can really put the burden on research and not on the researchers' administrative work. Another important point in the current bill is the introduction of the state certificate of informatics. This is the first time this has happened in our country. The certification of digital skills is a key necessity in the labour market today. Ladies and gentlemen, education - I think we all agree on this - can no longer be the subject of micro-political purposes. It is certainly a place that favours consensus and cooperation as it is about our future, about the future of our children, with the opportunities for progress and advancement in this place. I believe that we can agree here, in this bill and with a large majority, to send a strong signal from all the seats of the parliament that the National Representation is not divided into the question of education, but decides in the light of the country's perspective. I am sure that we can make the start today by supporting and voting in favour of this bill. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and all of us majority MPs are determined to move on this road, a road without exclusion, divisions and divisions, a path of unified, modern, prospective and vision for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, too, for the time economy. Mrs. Perka Petti has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u287	Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin I should like to make three comments on what has been heard today in this Chamber. The first is a question to the Minister on the reasoned opinion because we have also been in some positions. I do not know that these documents are classified and cannot be given to Parliament. That's what's going through services. We are therefore reintroducing the request for this correspondence and the reasoned opinion. The second, which I have heard from many speakers in the New Democracy, is about linking education to the market, etc. If something has come as a conclusion from the recent hard economic crisis, it is not that our universities and scientists were not serving the economy, but just the opposite. It was such a productive model that over time the governments of the country had brought in which our excellent, high-level scientists did not get a job. I mean, it's an idea. The third very small comment concerns the speech by Prime Minister Mitsotakis. Look at the amphitheaters, the truth is, there was no sound of that slogan. That's what sounded like in the CNN. But I will make an observation and say that it would be very nice if the Prime Minister of Greece had passed through these amphitheaters of the Greek universities, which were rich in reflection, actions, ideas. It's a deficit. So I'm still talking about the bill that it's certainly neoliberal inspiration. It is another of what we are used to, which aims to limit access to education, close schools, departments and foundations and weaken the quality of public education for the benefit of private educational institutions. A new independent authority is set up to intervene and blackmail institutions by suspending funding. To reach agreement, do you agree that the financing of the HEIs is a state obligation and cannot be suspended by an authority? And if we consider that in this rhetoric question you agree, how can regular funding be linked to any evaluation process? There has been enough cuts in spending on education. You therefore retain conditions of financial suffocation for the weakest institutions, which are mainly in the regions, because they are also lacking in infrastructure and staff. Instead, will this be punished? In any case, regular financing relates to a constitutional obligation for the State to provide sufficient resources for the educational and research operation of universities. All policies of your Government and especially of the Ministry of Education clarify an ideological concept and approach to excellence. The term is linked to competition and not to a reasonable effort collectively and not competitively for the pursuit of education, the conquest of knowledge and education as a constant criticism. For example, the quantitative term ‘number of publications per teacher’ as an evaluation criterion leads to the avoidance of a high-risk, innovative, painful and long-term investigation. Continuous criticism is lost in quantitative competition. That's not exquisite. And colleges aren't excellence, it's a clientele. The Minister, after acknowledging the professional equivalence of the diplomas of private colleges with that of the Greek universities today, invoking precisely this professional parity, recognizes them as a formal qualification of permanent appointment in public education without the formal recognition of academic equivalence and equivalence by the IATAP. Therefore, the Barber Constitution is also overridden by Article 16, and the excellence again, and the academicity of education hurt, and the prestige of IOIs degraded and the hardship of the graduates lost and society detached from high level teachers and general scientists. The only winners are the businessmen in the area who are the only ones who have agreed to all operators. Here I will give a parentheses, and I will remind you that in 2014 the Minister of Education, Mr Arvanitopoulos, abolished fifty specialities in public free technical education and the same day in Piraeus opened an educational group that provided these skills. I say someone might start buying degrees. Here, too, to say about the epitome of the minor effort. Those who are excluded from the base of the "twelfth", that is to say, those who think they are not qualified to enter the HEI, if they pay more, will be able to obtain an equal degree. Let us remember a little news that recently came to the news that in the American university bulwarks of excellence a mechanism was in place to buy access. Not to mention student loans - Mrs Fotiou said so - which amount to 1.3 trillion. Your choices in low-qualified persons' positions, let's stay there. Do not institutionalize it so that it runs the entire body of social life. Let the price of intact knowledge not be paid by the whole society. All right, you brought an order for the NSA Commander without a degree. And, yes, some of your executives should bother going to recognize their degrees. Others collect standard sommer school qualifications. Others paid more to doubtful colleges in order to build the best CV. Some have no degrees, they do not invoke them, they do not need them, there will be a special provision and they can also become directors of the offices of the Ministers. All right, though, let's not go on with this. Let us admit that this government has or chooses such executives, but let the academic community do its job and not enjoy the essence and value of academic knowledge. To conclude, I should like specifically to refer to my multipathic region, Florina, which, while at the level of announcements has already been found at the beginning of the post-planning era, of course without design and without resources, is subject to the graceful shot. After the suspension of the operation of the two two-year training courses based in Florina, namely, the specialty of the technical vinification and oenology - I am not mentioning it at random, it is well known that the wines of Amyndium and the wineries of the region - the Minister of Education comes in this bill and inhibits both Departments, Film and Food Science. I would remind you that Florina has made all the films of Angelopoulos. Reminds the School of Fine Arts, the City of Letters and Arts, which has been academy since 1930. These were founded by our own government and are focal points of knowledge linked to the development path of the place. The suspended departments are absolutely necessary and reliable by the university community and local society because of their particular added value in the development of the region. We remind you that we have legislated on the development of the country. We have taken into account the comparative advantages of the region, the appalling levels of unemployment, but also the high level of academic and educational work in our region. There is, of course, a reasonable question here. The establishment of two-way and two sections of the University of Western Macedonia was a non-development measure and a bad planning of the SYRIZA government, while the grant of the Boston Theological School constitutes an investment? The Prime Minister of the country, instead of bringing investments, as he claimed, proceeded to scandalous grants from an institution whose academic value is not confirmed and transparency in resource management is controlled. This hypocrisy and the downgrading of the region's role towards the vote, and lobbying cannot continue. Florina and western Macedonia in the midst of ligniteification require respect and practical support. They warn you that there is no tolerance to the tricks of your government that deceives the Region and causes the common sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u288	Mrs. Olympia Tyloridou from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u289	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam and Minister, as the Prime Minister said before in his speech, Plato said that education is man's second sun. I should also add that Plato considered the state's in principle to be the pedagogical role and must provide all the supplies and means to the individual so as to become a perfect and good personality, otherwise according to Plato, the state falls at the level of a gang or association of wicked people, as he said, who seek atomic benefits. And he paid so much attention to the primary role of education in his "Citizenship" that he did not assign it to anyone but said it was a full obligation of the state. In this case, then, the bill highlights two different options that exist in relation to New Democracy and what we did the previous period. It is, of course, true that this bill stems from the true philosophy of the New Democracy and is not hypocritical. It has at its core the concept of the sanctity of the market for neoliberalism, a market which must determine the overall development of society. But for us education is a field of constant knowledge search and a prerequisite for the free movement of ideas and an inalienable democratic right of all the citizens that the state must guard. Knowledge of the New Democracy is a market-oriented field as a commodity for the benefit of economic gains and is the right of those who can buy it. In this bill, you seem to want no dialogue. If you wanted dialogue from the beginning, the Ministry of Education would not be abolished without debate, for example, the Law School of Patras or the sixty-five-five-four sections. You don't want vocational training, because if you wanted it, you wouldn't have abolished the sixty-five years so that PSA graduates with public education can obtain professional rights. You are against public education, and that is clear from your decision to assimilate colleges in terms of their professional rights to universities. You are suspending the operation of the thirty-seven new departments created by the SYRIZA government. The excuse is that these departments were hasty, they were made without any design, they were rouspheological and, more generally, they were rough, they were made with micro-political purposes, with voting logic, compromises and short-sighted visuals. We would therefore like to tell you that the debate on the creation of these departments has been a debate that began in the Ministry of Education three years ago in cooperation with the dean and university authorities. Two years of exhaustive discussions in the draft for a different education strategy which will enable more and more citizens to learn. I would particularly like to see the six university departments of western Macedonia and the one university department of Kastoria, the Department of Education and Care of Early Childhood to tell us clearly whether the Minister considers this to be a rousfetti in Kastoria. So let me remind you that we in Castoria have seen the work before. With the "Athens" project, for example, the Department of International Trade of the TEI had again been abolished in the New Democracy Government. Reopen this section in 2017. The project has been seen before by the abolition of the Architecture School in Kastoria, which was renamed, transferred to another city and stayed in our area, an infrastructure for which public money was wasted, untapped. So does the Minister consider the creation of this rousfetti section to our own region? I would like to say to you that we consider it unacceptable that we have a constitutional circumvention in this bill, which opens the door to private education. Since private universities cannot be established under the Constitution, it opens the back door with the introduction of private education without any obligation to recognize the college degrees by the IATP and with full professional rights. For this to happen and to go forward, it requires further degradation and dismantling of public universities which began with the defamation of universities with asylum and continues today through their equation with private colleges. This means strengthening private education, marketing of diplomas, and this also means sub-financing, which is done on the pretext of a naive assessment, which, in our opinion, will broaden the disparities between university institutions, particularly at the expense of regional institutions, which can reach the point and the search for resources outside the public with what this entails. But all this for you is fine letters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u290	Mr Yiannis Andrianos from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the draft law of the Ministry of Education, which is an important step towards the essential quality upgrading of public education, which is an urgent need for our society. This is because any optimistic thought about the future of the country presupposes a education of quality, global, competitive, education that works simultaneously on three axes, i.e. a lever for the quality of our democracy, economic development and social mobility. The Government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis moves in an interdimensional direction compared to the previous government of SYRIZA, and of course, Madam President, we have a different philosophy. This is because we believe that the downward level, that is, the policy pursued by the previous government, is, in the end, primarily at the expense of the less privileged. It is to the detriment of those who come from families who cannot afford to seek other solutions. So the policies of levelling down, which are allegedly aimed at tackling social inequalities, ultimately achieve exactly the opposite result, thus widening the gap of knowledge and skills between rich and poor. And that's not just us. In the first place, the large social majority which gave the New Democracy a strong mandate was confirmed. The opinion surveys confirm that 78% of Greeks, regardless of their electoral behaviour, supports the linking of the funding of the HEIs with their evaluation. In an election we have presented our proposals for education, and today we are literally honouring our commitments. With the establishment, then, of the National Higher Education Authority, we are strengthening the independence of drawing up and implementing a national strategy for the universities of the country, because strategic planning allows for the proper organisation and functioning of HEIs based on international standards. With the change in the method of financing, 80% on the basis of objective criteria and 20% on the basis of quality criteria, the main axis of which will be chosen by universities themselves, we are effectively abolishing the possibility of arbitrage by the Minister concerned and thus strengthening transparency and incentives for quality, allowing universities to formulate their own strategy. With the change of the framework in the PPE, in the specific research accounts, we are exempting institutions from unnecessary and multiplely aggravating bureaucracy, giving them the flexibility necessary to manage the research funds. We therefore create the conditions for Greece from a country of export of students, university professors and researchers to become a reception potential and at the same time without ideological caps, we are substantially strengthening the link to the labour market. I would like to refer to the forecasts for schools, such as the obligation to grant regional authority approval for the organisation of a school trip, for which the decision of the school club will now suffice, but also the forecasts to ensure the proper operation of schools in remote and inaccessible areas, which we are facing from time to time in Argolida. The introduction of the State Certificate of Informatics is particularly positive, but the arrangements for the prior transfer of multitude of teachers to be accompanied in the near future by another measure to strengthen the multitude family, facilitate the conversion of these students, but let us see and consider the request of the multitude of assistant teachers in the permanent recruitment process. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of an unresolved, ideological and completely biased educational policy of the past five years, the New Democracy Government opposes an integrated strategy, a strategy that emphasises quality and evaluation, autonomy and independence, the measurable achievement of positive results for society, democracy and the economy. In schools, then, and our universities, the nuclei of excellence are there and many are there. With their achievements, even in very difficult circumstances, they make us proud and optimistic for the future. It is time to support these examples, to highlight them and to multiply them. It is time to prove as a state in the educational communities that they do not fight against the respective government, but have the state of a substantial bourgeoisie and a supporter. The time has come next to the friendly, conscientious, creativity, the sacrifices of teachers, students, students and their families to stand up to a modern, transparent, fair, proven effective framework, a responsible public education strategy in our country. The draft law we are debating today is an important step in this direction. It shows that this government honours its commitments, reflects the maturity and determination of our society, beyond and above party preferences and electoral behaviour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u292	Please come to Stepma, Mr. Philippos Loading from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u293	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating the Ministry's leadership, but also the government, because it has indignant over the problems of islanders and has laid down severe penalties for substitute teachers who, while recruiting as alternates, did not give up their service without serious reason, leaving our islands and our children in the mercy of our gods. I also welcome the very important mobilisation of the service of teachers in remote areas, the geographically remote areas, encouraging them to take up educational posts so that we, residents of the Prefecture of Cyclades, enjoy training on the same terms and conditions as all Greek citizens. Let's go to this bill now. With the draft law of the Ministry of Education, the country's higher education, I dare say the country's long-lived higher education, enters a very correct orbit. The framework for the support of universities by the state, with the aim of our universities to carry out their national missions in an excellent manner, is laid down at the centre of evaluation. The establishment of a national higher education authority has a strong institutional symbolism. Quality higher education is, moreover, a national issue. It is a national issue for our own universities to offer strong prospects for students as well as opportunities for scientific research and academic development in their own potential. In order to achieve this, firstly, we need dignity. There is a need for a continuous assessment with a reward, of course, of what is distinguished, as well as support from the State, mainly on the basis of funding, but also in many other ways. The new national higher education authority is therefore a guarantor of this national risk. This draft law introduces clear and concrete criteria for assessing all universities. At the same time, clear conditions are laid down for the support of each university by the State. At this point I would like to point out that support from the state is not only the funding, which clearly has a dominant role, but also initiatives that strengthen the work of universities and strengthen their own role in society. Such initiatives are those of the Ministry of Education to promote relations with China, but also with the United States, for which I would like to congratulate both the Minister and the Deputy Minister of Education. With regard to the financing of universities, this bill now becomes an intersection for Greek data. We're taking another step forward. The entire funding of universities will now be linked to the results of their work, as will be assessed by the procedures of the new national authority. In this way, incentives are being given to improve all universities and universities are being placed in orbit of noble starch for excellence. This draft law therefore lays down detailed evaluation criteria, which take into account issues of study, the operation of universities, the connection of education to the labour market and physical research activity. There is also provision for the possibility of highlighting centres of excellence. This could be the way the schools and departments of the Greek universities, which are distinguished for the level of their own studies, for their research activity and for their overall contribution to society. Such a potential centre of excellence, a department that could fulfil all the requirements of a centre of excellence, is located in the Prefecture of Cyclades. This is the Department of Mechanical Design of Products and Systems of the University of the Aegean, based in Syros. In the historic high school building from which Eleftherios Venizelos graduated in Ermoupolis, the first in the country where women studied, the university department is currently hosted with a unique object in the country, but also with very important results. His graduates today have found work in large businesses in the United States, Italy and Great Britain. Secondly, they run dynamic businesses throughout Greece and of course many of them have started their own businesses with great success. At the same time, the university department has a systematic research activity, while it provides scientific know-how to both local authorities and local businesses. In addition, it organizes a postgraduate program as well as summer schools that brought together and can bring corresponding scientists to Syros and the Cyclades Prefecture, as well as various other scientists from around the world. It is therefore a university department in many areas, exemplary, we would say, which can be strengthened even more and can offer even more to both their students and graduates and to their research and academic potential. It is a section which, under the terms of assessment and the financial incentives given, could be a model centre of excellence. Ladies and gentlemen, with the example of the University of the Aegean and the Department of Engineering, which is based in my region, I wanted to highlight more clearly the critical dimensions of the draft law, i.e. the possibility of raising itself and supporting itself in the evaluation and pragmatic funding of university excellence, wherever it develops, whatever conditions it develops. This should also be the central problem for higher education in our country, a sure and undeniable stake, which our own government, with the proposed bill comes to the foundation. For these reasons, I would urge you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u294	Mr. George Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u295	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in both phases of the Constitutional Review process, New Democracy has constantly set and insisted on the revision of Article 16. The revision of this article has not been successful. However, the New Democracy and its fellow Members continue at all times to reiterate and underline the need for a review of Article 16 and to enthusiastise their - in their view - a loss of opportunity that this revision did not go ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to be your poorness. It seems, however, that behind him and your neoliberal idealism are concealed by strong interests. This draft is part of the circumvention and circumvention operation referred to in Article 16 of the Constitution, which does not allow private universities to be set up. In this context, the depreciation of public universities by weakening, degrading and underfunding them by the state is moderating. The Government decides to finance with the sum of EUR 2 million a year and, retroactively, a controversial institution, the Boston Religious School, since its operation and management is being investigated by the Massachusetts Ministry of Education and the FBI of the United States, who have warned that they will remove the opportunity to grant academic titles. On the other hand, the government makes it difficult to finance the Greek public universities. In addition, the Prime Minister, in his position this evening, admitted that the government's planning is 'not one euro from the Treasury'. The draft law provides that the financing of HEIs will be made by 80% on the basis of general criteria and 20% on the basis of specific criteria, contributory and private financial, consistent with market logic, thereby addressing higher education institutions as anonymous companies. Their judge - the Prime Minister himself said - is the economy! Any IEI who fails to achieve the indicators specified by the Minister of Education will not receive funding. In other words, there is a sense of punishment in this case. The government thus strengthens disparities between the institutions, mainly weakening regional universities and leading them either to the search for funds from the private sector or to closure. It is also true that in countries where funding of education has been implemented on the basis of performance, the project has failed and the governments have turned to other policies. For example, I mention France. The shrinking, weakening and depreciation of the public university, which will be intensified in the above-mentioned way of financing, is reflected in the decision to suspend the operation of the new departments of SYRIZA established by the Government of SYRIZA. In this context with Article 33, thirty-seven new departments shall be suspended indefinitely. I will mention two sections, indicative of the University of Peloponnese, the Department of Agricultural Economy of the School of Administration and the Department of Public Health of the School of Health. I wonder whether these departments are not connected, as you say, Vice-President, Minister, with production and the social state. This decision does not respect the educational community and abolishes the self-government of universities, since the institutions themselves had proposed establishing these departments and some had even begun procedures to operate. SYRIZA, despite budgetary constraints, reformed and enlarged the academic map in a coherent and reasoned manner after wide consultation with the universities and the academic community. Increase the funding, serve institutions with LPI members and new researchers, adopt academic rules at all levels of study and promote transparency in the management of funds, addressing chronic distortions. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will also make a reference to the famous article 50 of the bill, which amends No 4589/2019 on appointments to education. It is proposed that the diplomas awarded by colleges working with foreign universities are accepted by the AACC in the competitions concerned. Under the current legislation, college graduates who did not have the right to participate in IATA competitions for the recruitment of permanent teachers who were not qualified by the IATA. It is obvious that this is a equation of the professional rights of college graduates with those of the Higher Education Institutions. This regulation is challenging. This is an injustice affecting graduates of universities, as it recognises equal rights with university graduates to graduates with unrecognised diplomas from the IATP. This is done by ignoring the unanimous reaction of the university community, teachers' organisations and even the educational IAEA. In other words, it legislates this provision, despite the - as the Prime Minister said - sporadic reactions. It is clear that this means circumvention and circumvention of Article 16 of the Constitution, which provides for public higher education in our country. This provision for a professional equilibrium of college graduates with the graduates of public higher education is a window for the further deterioration of university institutions by the deterioration of university degrees, by means of a vehicle for the equalisation of professional rights. It exacerbates the problem of university graduate unemployment and trades the public social asset of education and its universal nature. The aim of the bill is obvious. Since Article 16 could not be revised, it is attempting to circumvent this Article, to circumvent it in a number of provisions which redirect the educational system of higher education in order to privatise it. The aim of the degradation of public education is linked, ladies and gentlemen, to your neoliberal idealism and class division. It is therefore necessary to defend the public nature of universities in order to ensure equal access for young people, regardless of social and economic origin, to higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u296	Thank you. Now Mr Kavadas Athanasios has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a modern higher education must ensure scientific competence, professional prospects and also make Greece internationally competitive in the academic field. This contributes to the bill we are discussing today - among other things - by setting up the National Higher Education Authority that replaces the IPO. This is not just a name change. This is a substantial upgrading of the role of the principle. The evaluation of higher education institutions will now be central to higher education. Through this assessment, the national authority will co-ordinate higher education policy, ensuring high-quality studies. It will recommend to the Minister for Education the programme of a national strategy which may include the establishment, merger, abolition of sections and any other procedure it considers necessary to maintain the quality and effectiveness of universities. These proposals will be made after evaluation through feasibility and sustainability studies. In addition, the independent authority recommends an annual distribution of 20% of university regular funding on the basis of their performance. The remaining 80% is allocated on objective criteria such as the number of students and the geographical spread of the institution. This is a radical incision. The Minister does not have the funds willingly, while at the same time the universities have an additional incentive to develop and improve their academic activities. The incentives to improve are a central tool for upgrading the quality and competitiveness of higher education, as well as for rehabilitating it from micro-political purposes. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2017 the Government of SYRIZA decided to abolish the two departments of the Ionian Islands Ionian Islands in Lefkada, which was merged with the Ionian University and the Department of Tourism, a section that would be directly related to the labour market of my island, went to Corfu. In fact, the Minister himself, Mr Gavroglou, had first informed us that no university department was planned to operate in Lefkada. As was expected, local society, representatives, institutions, clubs, all rose up with a common demand: not to remove Lefkada from the digital map. Not only because the island of Balaoritis, Sicilyian and Svoronos would remain the only island of the Ionian region without a university department, not only because it has advantages compared to the other islands, such as special access, but mainly because it would be unfair not to leave in Lefkada any of the sections that it has been hosting for so many years. Under the pressure of local society and with the assistance of the Ionian University, SYRIZA Government announced the future operation of a Regional Development Department on my island. Along with this section another thirty-six were announced, some with last-minute amendments, obviously without a plan and never having an institutionalised IPP. The Ionian University was still not ready to support a completely new department. There was no building, personal, curriculum. That is why the Senate decided to operate from the academic period 2021-2022. The Government of New Democracy, which wants to operate with a strategy and vision for the Greek universities, has been found in front of a difficult choice. He had to review the feasibility of setting up these thirty-seven departments. As a representative of Lefkada in the House, I am sorry, but it does not surprise me. Since 2018, when the relevant bill came to the House, we had hampered the curiosity. Why? Because we have the political courage to do what we have to do, not what is a political interest. And we do it consistently. Lefkada has nothing to fear from the Ministry's decision, which is not about abolition but about suspension of operation. The subject of housing is already moving on. The public has granted the plot and there are 2 million euros in the public investment programme to repair the Youth Centre. And very soon, according to the Ionian University, the competition will take place. The university, according to the dean, is supported by teaching staff while a curriculum is being prepared. In addition, the object of the section may be enriched and specified with themes relating, for example, to tourism, shipping and the maritime economy. This specialty can be applied to the real economy of Lefkada, giving impetus to both its department and students as well as to my prefecture. The main, the Senate of the Ionian University recently unanimously confirmed its decision to support the operation of the department. I present to the minutes a statement from the Senate. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Kavadas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, higher education in our country has suffered over time from occasional, often localist and micro-political purposes. This must be over because we must ensure that our students' labors, family sacrifices to study their children, get a place. Training must always look ahead. Seeing the future. And I would like to say that our education in the face of Mrs Keramos has a leader with vision, with principles and with determination, with absolute confidence in the objectives she sets out and the means it uses to achieve them. And of course, next to her, she has two worthy Undersecretaries with whom I have had the pleasure and honour of working with, Mr Digalakis and Mrs Zacharakis. Therefore, as a Member, I welcome the functioning of an essentially independent authority with a decisive role in developing the higher education strategy. And I am sure that rationalization, organized planning and the vision of the government and Prime Minister, Mrs Mitsotakis, will win for Greece the bet of the quality universities that will offer our young academic foundations and professional perspectives. For all of this, I am voting in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u298	Thank you. Mr. Kelles Christos has the floor now. Mr Constantopoulos Dimitris will be followed as Parliamentary Representative. I would ask the other parliamentary representatives who want to speak to agree to speak for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u299	I have asked to speak as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u300	Let Mr. Kegeroglu speak, and then Mr. Kegeroglu have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u301	Mr. Kelles, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our Government is progressing rapidly and unequivocally on the road to reform, improving the efficiency of the state and ensuring the conditions necessary for the strong growth of the country. This is what we are doing today in this draft law which incorporates regulations aimed at strengthening the competitiveness of public education and linking education to the labour market. Starting from the upgrade of the IPP a year ago, when I was the rapporteur for the officer's opposition in the bill on the absorption of the TEI of Thessaly from the University of Thessaly, the EKP and the Agricultural University of Athens, we said that these procedures were carried out without evaluation and without the agreement of the IPP. In addition, we had made it clear that the next day will find us together with the IPB, which we will support in its mission. So this is what we are doing today with its evolution and its new framework of operation as the National Higher Education Authority, which will help to create a modern and pluralistic environment in higher education in order to meet the requirements of our time and especially the expectations of the new generation. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Yes, as the Minister said, we are proud to have a new strategy for the academic development of our country. And yes, this principle and education policy are national. I say this because one of the main arguments put forward by Mr Kyprianos, President of the IPP at the hearing of the bodies, was why the new authority should be called national. It's a funny argument. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the main objectives of our Government is to exploit the skills of the academic community and strengthen its position in the European and international environment. And in order for this to happen, we must introduce evaluation procedures for universities and research centres so that we can become ever better and not leave our children abroad to finally stop Brain Drain. I would particularly like to refer to two areas relating to the future. The first is the State Informatics Degree. It is very important that our state will provide organised examinations in order for citizens to obtain this valuable resource in the information society. The second section is the teaching of the Greek language for citizens of third countries. And it is right to move, Minister, in order to make the country an international training centre. Greek means Greek history and culture. Its teaching becomes an element of influence at regional and international level and, in other words, the framework of establishment in the country is sufficiently regulated by specific conditions. This is therefore also a regulation that is being implemented in the context of our programme. I come to an issue, Minister, which I pointed out during the meetings of the committees, concerning the suspension of the thirty-seven departments for which the evaluation procedure was never carried out. Within the planned actions, the HRC should be in line with and review the issue of the medical laboratories of the former Thessaly TEI. I've stressed it on several occasions in the past. This is a section which has a high base of introduction and a high interconnection with the labour market. This section, unfortunately, has been abolished by Mr Gavroglou. So you must see it again by contributing yourself as a Ministry to the justice of these people. I remind you, respectively, that students at the University of Western Attica will receive a degree in Biomedical Sciences in the direction of Medical Labs. While it had to be the same at the University of Thessaly instead, the students of the Medical Labs joined the Nursing. We must therefore correct this injustice. I would also ask you to consider the issue with the Department of Tourism. In addition, Minister, Article 55 provides for the improvement of legislation on the transfer of multitude teachers. And, of course, I would point out this once again - and I have also said this in committee - that we must also see to it that the children of a large number of families who are in higher education are translated. Finally, I should like to mention something that is not included in this bill but falls within the general framework of the treatment of graduates. These are the procedures for the recognition of diplomas in IATAP. There are too many teachers who cannot use their degree in the current notice, because these are the IOTAP rates. I think, then, finally, that a solution must be found for the particular people who are in hostage. I proposed first that their applications should be accepted and that, when decisions on recognition should be taken, they should be included in their supporting documents. However, I think we should give a more general solution by improving the response of the specified organism to the requirements of the times. Something must be done urgently, Minister, with the IATAP. I think you'll do it. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, the government is taking a decisive step towards shaping tomorrow's education. That is why we are voting in favour of this in order to strengthen higher education and to provide the new generation of the country with an appropriate framework to remain in Greece and contribute to its strong growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for the time. Mr. Kegeroglou has the floor, followed by Mrs. Kafantaris, Mr. Konstantopoulos, Mr. Fotilis, and we are finishing with Mrs. Kasimatis. Then they will be given the floor for their second-guessment by the parliamentary representatives or rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u304	Ladies and gentlemen, the real evaluation of universities is carried out in the field of the economy and society, not only in our country, but throughout Europe and around the world. That is where we need to stand, firstly, that there really is no Greek university graduate or even TEI who wants to find work abroad, where that possibility exists, and not to offer him too much money. That is the main evaluation. Imagine solving the most important of the problems faced by universities! Because, yes, officials come out and move on to society, the economy, but problems remain, and are exacerbated many times. It is different from a university, it is not the same, and of course it is mainly about the will of the university community itself, but also about the political leadership of the Ministry, all of the political world and the graves, I would say, of this place. The public university, as the Prime Minister said, has endured the crisis. He withstand the sewing of the so-called left. He'll be able to withstand anything that we do, or whatever you do. But is that what this is about? Can she stand it? It has strong foundations and despite the problems our educational system operates at all levels. But that's not enough. From the moment we all agree that the future is education, the future is education - and I do not understand, of course, after this agreement, how we have completely divergent policies, how there is no effort at all to have a consultation field - to see how every political power, of course every area, as I said to you by a university community, society, negativeism, and to see how we can finally solve the problems and contribute in the best way. There are also non-truthful politicians, there are also political forces affected by the economic situation and economic interests, there are politicians who are influenced by guilds, there are politicians who are affected by impact groups or others. This is all there is, but we cannot stay in this. We have to move on. Greek education is needed today by a field of fertile composition of proposals and ideas, so that education can make a great leap forward in order to cover damage and lost time, so that it can be synchronised with the fourth industrial revolution. He has no choice. That is what we must all bear in mind. Instead of these, the government with some of the articles in the bill, but also other decisions, confirm our fears that education will continue to be the subject of party confrontation, barbarous confrontation, competition, feasibility and customer relations. And the most serious mistake you make, Minister, is that you do not start with a new consultation on a new basis. You keep what you have created in the previous period, which you have complained about, Mr Gavroglou and others, and you build on these things. You know, monstrosity is coming out. There's no educational system coming in. It's a monstrosity, isn't it? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There is today, directly, a plan for the real convergence of the departments from the TEIs, with the departments of the universities, without saying which or what is better or worse, because this can only be obtained from a serious evaluation. There's no such a plan! We're on our way to luck. They will end in one way or another, they will take a card and see how we use it or give it the opportunity to use it then. We have a bill that doesn't have a report from the State General Accounting Office. It typically does, but it doesn't have the financial cost. It is very serious and I wonder how we are discussing, Mr President, a bill which has a financial cost, but from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education, the General Accounting Office of the State have not calculated it or even assessed it. It's unacceptable. You are also addressing the issue, the establishment, the development, the abolition of sections. Both the government of SYRIZA and you are shown to be far from the needs of the country and education. Thirty-seven sections were created by law, with no assessment of most, without a plan and most of the last-minute amendments. They found out at the cafeteria, I was a witness! They said "I'm running because there are divisions, I'll put the department in." That's never happened before. There have always been pressures, decisions of prefecture councils, regional councils, municipal councils, etc., but what happened with the café on that day has never been done. So what are you guys doing? You are doing exactly the same pattern, of course, from the other political side. You say "lawfully and we dismantle the sections". Why? They were proposed with one or the other some sections. The suspension as you brought it needs to be accompanied by a legal commitment that can be made with the legislative improvement we have proposed. The six departments I know very well in Heraklion, Chania, Crete, Agios Nikolaos have much to do with the infrastructure and the dynamics of becoming good sections, and this will naturally also happen in many cases. Some people are going to be the other way around. There can be no preconditions at all, when there's no building anywhere, there's no other department to be next door. Well, I'll do it. The migrating of decisions from one end to another is negative. We will insist that you commit yourself with legislative improvement, that within a certain period of time there will be an assessment of all the departments, no one will be rejected a priori, but what the institutions of the universities are proposing and what is evaluated in accordance with the procedure to be set up within the time allowed. And attention: the departments that have students, we cannot say 'children, we are now stopping it'. Irrespective of whether the previous government did it roughly, it did. They've moved on. Do we pull the carpet to stay in the air? Oh, no. I think it is a mistake, and I would point out that, not only for the Public Health School, there are too many departments that should be dealt with. We therefore insist on this because this will also make sense and institutional entity the IPTO, either by its old name or by the new name you give it, the ETHC. Another issue that the government is badly dealing with is the issue of IATAP.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u305	Mr. Kegeroglu, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u306	I shall conclude, Mr President. A package needs to be drawn up that will facilitate their procedures and credibility, but the government seems to have decided to do by pas and to go beyond the IATF, rather than strengthen its transparency and credibility. It takes sustainable solutions so that people don't expect two and three years, but there can be no certificate at the stand that gives academic qualifications. There is a procedure provided for in the directive, which we have incorporated, which is from the Ministry. Other business, other academics. So it comes now and makes an anti-constitutional arrangement in this direction. We have submitted to you the proposal for improvement, as I have told you. You're telling us it's covered. Since it is covered and it is the same, make it acceptable, to vote for the provision, since you do not disagree with the arrangement we propose. Of course, it was a good thing that you accepted our other amendment - even with the copying of Mr Bourras, because he is also from the same region - because he really solves a serious social problem which has been presented by a political and legal uncertainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u307	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mrs. Harula Kafantaris from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a very serious bill today, because the question of education, as I think we all agree, is an extremely national issue. That is why the bill we are debating today in plenary I think it is very important. The French historian of July Michele when he was asked what the first chapter of politics was: 'Education'. The second? He answered: 'Training'. What about the third? He answered: 'Training'. Where there is ignorance and lack of knowledge are fear and prejudice. This is another bill of the New Democracy, which actually reflects its ideological perception of education, education for a few, education with a clear class mark. And here I cannot recall the election statements by current Prime Minister Mitsotakis on coolers from Peristeri, where he distinguishes everyone's course in the educational section, as regards origin, economic comfort, residence and thereby tries to incorporate what the New Democracy actually believes. In fact, it happens to be a Member of Parliament and of this region, West Athens. The draft law also reflects the New Democracy's perception and its abstention in what it is public. This is particularly reflected in Article 50 on colleges. I'm going to report on this below. After effectively abolishing the two-year university programs for the graduates of the PESA, since you did not establish the Law of Patras, which was a local request from several bodies, after you abolished thirty-seven new university departments, Mr. Mitsotakis came to his post today to discuss the liberalisation of research and innovation introduced by this draft law. I would like to remind you that the General Secretariat of Research and Technology was transferred from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Development. So far from the universities and the university community? I would also like to put another question here and ask the Minister or the Minister a question: what about the six new environmental education centres that were established by law in the SYRIZA government? And we're talking about the law by which these centres were renamed to Sustainable Education Centres, we're talking about six new ones. Why does the staff of these people not proceed? What will happen in particular to the Sustainable Education Centre set up at the Tritsis Park, which concerns a particularly important area of western Athens, particularly environmentally downgraded? We would like an answer to that too. I now come to this draft law, the Quality Assurance and Certification Authority is repealed in higher education, the IPTO, and the National Higher Education Authority is established. For the participation of NCAs in the European network for quality assurance and higher education, the principle of independence is essential. But how independent is the principle at the moment, which is clear from the provisions of the bill, that it is actually defined and controlled by the Ministry and therefore by the government in question? We therefore read Article 3: "The President shall be chosen by a decision of the Special Committee of Institutions and Transparency of the House taken in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, on a proposal from the Ministerial Council, upon a proposal from the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs. The President shall be appointed by an act of credentials of the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs. At the same time, with a view to this independence, which is not guaranteed, the Ministry will transfer powers, in essence it will not be empowered to take political decisions on the new authority, so that it may in future not assume any responsibilities that it will be responsible for. Second serious matter. With the new system of financing HEIs -80% general criteria, 20% in particular - all that will be achieved will be the further deterioration of the institutions. This is a further deterioration in public education. Funding 80% -20% will widen the disparities between the Greek HEIs, intensify the introvertibility, trigger internal conflicts in the scientific and research community of the country. At the same time, it will weaken regional universities and lead them to a search for resources outside the public purse. In support of this, only Article 7(3) is sufficient. The High Council may recommend to the Minister for Education the total or partial suspension of the grant of an EIT if this does not provide within a reasonable period the necessary information material and documentation necessary for the exercise of the powers of the Authority. It will cut the funding of an EIT when we have constitutionally guaranteed public and free education. I'd call that extortion at least. In addition, the specific criteria refer to a number of graduates to the incoming students. What does that mean? Graduate quickly? How can this be done, if not by making it easier for teachers or even worse by facilitating a more flexible curriculum? Such extortion will certainly not strengthen the EMIs of the country and their prestige. It is noted that the funding of performance-based education has been implemented in many countries of Europe over the past decades and this policy of rewarding or punishing has not produced the expected results. On the other hand, Europeans have turned to other policies, such as mergers of institutions in European university networks. However, these conclusions do not mean that SYRIZA, but the European Commission, the international forum and the major universities in Europe and the world which see the damage to universities and the education of the consequences of this financial policy. Of course, I do not think you are very concerned about this by Article 50. Another inconceivable criterion mentioned in the bill is the professional absorption of graduates. Who and how will control this course at a time when there are hundreds of people who are invaded but lacking professional rehabilitation? While the SYRIZA government had announced appointments of fifteen thousand teachers, you six months later proceed to a notice of only five thousand two hundred fifty. You clearly link the evaluation to funding in one attempt - you say - the upgrading of higher education. What you are doing, however, is the total weakenment of public higher education, which you are ratifying with Article 50, which provides for the equivalence of diplomas and professional rights in public HEIs with those of private colleges. So unconstitutional and completely inviolable you sell public education for college interests and the promotion of the acquisition of qualifications that competes with public institutions. A number of higher education institutions in our country have shown a negative attitude to this. I will only present here the decision of the Quaestors of Philosophy of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Harula (Hara) Kafantaris, presents for the minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Your excellent argument is that this provision is a European directive and is therefore an obligation of the country, but our country has the same obligation and vis-à-vis the assistant teachers under Directive 70/99, which lays down minimum requirements for fixed-term work to ensure equal treatment of workers and prevent abuse caused by the use of successive contracts or working relationships of this type. Education, ladies and gentlemen, Members, is a serious matter and I think we all agree. The Prime Minister said today: "The second sun of man", as Plato said. But two and a half years ago Plato had said: "The one that tends simply to make the young man capable of earning money or some special power or some other knowledge, without his spiritual and moral culture, is cruel and free, so it is not even worth calling education." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantari. Here, Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u310	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a point. The fragmentary logic of regulations in higher education and the lack of an overall proposal for all levels of education is unfortunately continuing. We, the Change Movement once again call for the re-establishment of the National Education Council, the well-known to all of the NSRPs, and this is to get us back to normality. I should like to stress, Minister, that you have abolished the PPP, a renowned and objective authority, and instead you have introduced a new beginning of the so-called EAW. As a movement of change, we supported the ADI - and it is well known to everyone - an independent authority to guarantee quality in higher education with a decisive and binding role for the Ministry, so we do not understand the reasons for its abolition. You propose instead of the IPPC, Quality Assurance Authority, NSAE, the National Higher Education Authority, as you called it, an instrument without substantial and decisive competence. And I ask: How independent is it when it is an audit mechanism appointed by the Ministry? We, as a Change Movement, believe in the evaluation process of HEIs, in order to address weaknesses and shortcomings. This assessment contributes to its qualitative improvement, is feedback and must be linked to resources and funding. Madam Minister, we have a substantial difference. We consider education to be a public asset, and we call for it to be strengthened, for public free education to be strengthened at all levels. As regards the provisions for the EPPs, the proposed arrangements are much lower than expected. I would remind you that - the bodies said so during the hearing procedure - there is an urgent need to release from the time-consuming bureaucratic procedures that operate to date. You have not taken into account the possibilities offered by Law 4009/11 to resolve bureaucracy issues at all. Ladies and gentlemen, we disagree with Article 50, which I would point out had not been consulted. We have an equalisation of diplomas, which do not have academic recognition with the diplomas of Greek or foreign HEIs and, indeed, as a qualification for appointment to the public and especially to education. With the reintroduction of Law 4065/2019 and the provisions of d.d. 38/2010 that were abolished and with Law 4610/19 you extended the provisions for recognition of professional equivalence to titles and not only to another Member State of the European Union, but also to every third country, even without reciprocity. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where we owe a small retreat to the history of colleges' operation. We are starting with the 2005/36 European Directive and the adoption of the d.d. Date of birth: 38, 2010. Directive 2005/36 concerns the recognition of professional qualifications and under no circumstances academic recognition of qualifications, this being retained. Academic recognition of qualifications falls exclusively within the competence of the Member States and adds that, as far as colleges are concerned, they cannot provide any qualifications but only what? Just studies attestations. The S.T.E. Reminds 2011 that he is in favour of the legality of the B.C.E. The EAFRD shall be implemented in accordance with the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Remind SYRIZA's colleagues of Law 4610/19, Article 98, Mr Gavroglou is setting up an independent body for the implementation of European legislation. Indeed, I remember from this point of view the Step by Mr Kourakis to say that if this provision is voted, it will not make sense for someone to go to medicine or to law at the public university, that is, to have open access to this profession by a college. The conclusions, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, are yours. Finally, Article 168 of Law 4635/19 recognizing the equivalence of qualifications and colleges. Madam Minister, you have invoked our position by parliamentary means under the laws of 1912 and 4635 of 19. With our responsibility, we say 'yes' in our position on vocational equivalence, and this with the statutory evaluation procedures. We were saying 'no' but in the academic simulation of colleges with the universities. For us it is a red line, for us in education, only graduates of educational departments and teachers are appointed. Let me remind you that the production of teachers from Skopje did not assess how many problems it caused and how much education was swept away in the 1990s. Finally, Minister, investment in education cannot strengthen the free market, major economic interests and class discrimination. Investment in education is a national case, supports equal opportunities in education, mitigates social inequalities and gives everyone the right to make their dream reality. That is what we are doing, and that is why we will continue to defend ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u311	Mr Iason Fotillas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill proposed today by the government through the Minister of Education is crucial not because it solves all the problems relating to our country's education, and it could not do so on its own. It is crucial, however, because the Government of New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, has been attempting to deal with a problem that is arousing hundreds of thousands of families in our country and a total of Greek society over the last four decades of post-multipleism, a problem that is summarised in a simple phrase: 'What will our children do when they finish the university in terms of work'. That is the question we are having to answer today and we are being asked to answer not only as parliamentarians but also as parents who are struggling for the future of our children, who are seeing the nightmare of unemployment knocking at their door, while at the same time another door opens that of the outside, intensifying a phenomenon that took place in the years of the crisis in our country huge proportions. I invite you to consider not only your narrow party interest, but see what is going on around us. All the countries of the developed world at the time of the fourth industrial revolution that we are living in have found certain ways of dealing with the issue I raised, that is, those changes in their universities that are related to the labour market while investing in research in the areas that have a comparative advantage. They have thus succeeded in dramatically reducing their main structural unemployment. This is obviously not the case in our country. Attention! I'm not saying we don't have good teachers or good students. On the contrary, yes. I say something different, that the strategic orientation of our country's university studies, whether at the TEI or at the TEI, has become distorted, with customer anti-developmental logic. SYRIZA's previous government just understood. How could he, anyway? Sticked in her obsessions, against all forms of evaluation and excellence and against the opening up of higher education with the revision of Article 16. I only give one example of the negative consequences of this logic. The Minister, Mr Dygalakis, said so at the last meeting of the committee. We all know about the fourth industrial revolution that changes the way we work and also the way we think about it. Artificial intelligence and data science are its main priorities. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, how many of the sixty study programmes established in the last year of SYRIZA governance are they dealing with the subject of data science? Zero! None! Unbelievable and true, at the moment, in fact, that all over the world, programs of study in data science are constantly being established. So we could not continue with this strategic planning, colleagues of the Major Representation. With this bill we are attempting to put higher education in the orbit of modern times. We upgrade for this purpose the IPP to a National Higher Education Authority. We are creating objective criteria for checking the quality of the sections, schools or universities being established. This national authority for the first time will recommend a national education strategy, related to a more general national development strategy in our country and in our economy. It will create objective criteria for evaluating all departments, schools and universities, of which 80% will in fact depend on their funding. It also puts the innovative logic of the incentive into the remaining 20%, with criteria for growth and harmonisation with the European environment. What are these criteria? Firstly, absorption in the labour market. Secondly, the quality of the educational staff and the services that this offers students. Thirdly, the safeguarding of professional rights. Fourthly, the institution's extroversion, i.e. its cooperation with relevant universities in other European countries or major universities in non-European Union countries. In Chapter 2, also important, the bill simplifies the procedures of the EPPC and lays rules for transparency and efficiency of the ongoing research in Greece, trying to help universities recover the lost space on the research and technology market. It is not enough, of course, to reply from the heavy public accounting system, as the majority of the university community has been calling for for so many years. Because the funds managed by the PPE are public. And it is, in my opinion, another reason why universities should seek additional resources from the market. This is what would make them more competitive on the basis of healthy competition between them, therefore with those of other countries, which is also one of the objectives of the bill. Because I see, Minister, that you are also making arrangements for the PPE of the Open University, I would like to say to you that the payroll of the partner training staff is dramatically delaying and I would like you to make sure that there are no many months' delays as they existed in the past. With regard to the remaining provisions, the Ministry makes areas such as the State Certificate of Informatics in our schools, which is more than necessary at the time of the information we live. I shall conclude by returning to major opposition. Think of your vote again today. Stop giving back fights to the country's education, especially to the highest. The debate on colleges has already proved to be a pretext. You know very well where higher education and research are going in the advanced countries of Europe and the rest of the world. You have shown a person of consensus on the issue of the election of the President of the Republic. Show real consensus and substantial discussion with proposals on an issue that really is the key to the armoring of the country's economy, the upgrading of higher education and research in our country. We are all voting for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, too. The last speaker, Mrs Kasimatis Irene, from SYRIZA, will continue with Mr Bouba, Mrs Jufi, and we will close with Mr Stylianides. Mrs Cassimatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u314	Mr President, before my time began, I would like to tell you that just now the Parliamentary channel had stopped the show...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u315	We've been through this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u316	What did you say? Because we weren't here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u317	That he interrupted the Parliament's channel.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u318	And we say it again and we denounce that it was interrupted and that Mr Velopoulos' speech was heard in recording for those who do not know it. In the bill to be voted on, there are two competitive directions - world-classifications - in relation to the social issue. The proposed guidelines are clearly illustrated, on the one hand, by the social forces represented by the New Democracy and, on the other, by its plan for society, for the future, for young people. The question confusing the competitive directions, which defines our confrontation and differences, is specific, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy: Education is a public good or a commodity? And from the answer that will be given, it will arise if it is a democratic right, as we believe and fight, or a privilege, as you on the right, and you are trying to legislate today poorly. Your insistence on the revision of Article 16 of the Constitution, against the exclusive public character of higher education, in which current organic legislation has linked professional rights to academic qualifications, as is perfectly reasonable in terms of a correct reason, which inspires you both as terminology - but always made in your organic language - has acquired fetish dimensions. Since the middle of the last decade, at least, initially with the famous Hatzidakis amendment to European Directive 36/2005 on professional rights by means of a fairness system - franchise. Subsequently, with your failed, vaunted and defeated society attempt to revise Article 16, both through the 2008 and 2019 review process, which you politically lost here by SYRIZA - because in 2008 you lost socially, and through the reactions that had then been made within the PASOK - you continue through the backdrop, since the central "attack" failed, to pursue your strategic goal, which is to downgrade the public character of education, public school and university, education as a public good, which is a structural element of the democratic culture and, at the same time, as a mechanism of social reproduction in a direction that is potentially equitable in the sense of equality, freedom and social justice. A hub in your effort is Article 50 of the proposed bill. Article 50 amends Law 4589/2019 on appointments to education. This provision provides for admission by the AACC to primary and secondary education, and qualifications awarded by private colleges. This is a regulation that has reasonably caused the reaction of the educational community. It is obvious that your attempt to circumvent Article 16 of the Constitution, which does not allow private universities to be set up. Since you have not succeeded in revising it by parliamentary means, now you are trying in every way to bypass it and create a definite place in the field of education. You are trying to introduce private universities into Greek reality. This is essentially a reintroduction of a provision introduced by Mr Arvanitopoulos in 2012, which SYRIZA had abolished. The provision of Article 50 follows the provision of Article 168 of Law No.4365/2019 entitled "Investing in Greece", your law providing for the possibility of recognition of professional equivalence of higher education qualifications by Member States – Member States of the European Union and third countries, including diplomas awarded by colleges operating under the rule of law. Following the removal from the memoranda and in view of the possibility of permanent appointments, SYRIZA abolished by Law 4589 of 2019 previous provisions and specifically provided that only the holders of the IATCs of the external, recognised by the IATC, may participate in the selection process of the IACC. The degrees of private colleges will now be regarded as a formal qualification for the appointment of teachers and the recruitment of assistants. This choice especially in the field of the appointment of teachers is purely political, and you are allegedly announcing excellence. With this bill you are attempting to institutionalize the breakthrough between professional rights and academic qualifications, by closing the eye on the trade of hope that you are allowing against the new generations and their need to study and, at the same time, by setting the mechanisms for the consolidation of the class barriers, not permeating through the educational mechanism until now, which traditionally worked in our country and through the struggles of educational, student and popular movement, as well as the struggle, the effort of every young man - citizen of this country. Because it is a basic mechanism of social mobility, it is a partial expression of the tendency of social, democratic equilibrium to a national social formation, such as the Greek, whose structures and history pushed towards this, that is to say, the consolidation of class barriers. In summary, in Greece, we did not have the phenomenon of classicity in our education, for example, in England. Our collective experience as a society was different, and this has expelled into individual institutions, which you have repeatedly been trying to dismantle for many years and now continue. In particular, this objective, because you do not manage it despite your systematic pursuit - that is what we recognise you the consistency - you are trying to impose it now on primary and secondary education. How? In the process, as we have said, the appointment of teachers by the proposal - as is written in the report by the Scientific Office of the Parliament -'removal' of the words 'high academic qualifications' by the provision setting out the qualifications of candidate teachers. In other words, with this expulsion, your will does not have high academic qualifications for teachers and teachers, who teach letters to our children in public schools, that is to say to the children of the great majority of Greeks, to the children of the Greek people. Conversely, these high academic qualifications will be maintained only in the high-level private schools, since of course with high-teaching fees they receive they will recruit teachers of their choice, who will have high academic qualifications, not by staff but necessarily. What you today do away with as a prerequisite from public schools. So you are rejecting - I repeat the word of the Scientific Service of the Parliament - the scientific adequacy and the multi-faceted knowledge necessary for the education of young people. Excellency for you, another post-conscious flag of communication, cognitive opportunity, proves to be synonymous with the excellence of money, whose privileges in the foundations of society - that is, from the school - you want to safeguard and ensure for the few. The unskilled academic teacher, who is enacted by your current legislation as a model of education, will lead to a deterioration of the educational process provided, so that the public school, the knowledge provided and the spiritual facilities of the children of the people and of the middle classes will be reduced, so that these children as citizens tomorrow will have less opportunities in the labour market. Their access to higher education and then their studies will be reduced, undermining their future firstly, not only in the sense of professional or occupational rights and prospects, but also in the sense of reducing, not cultivating their criticism of competence in a school that does not offer it. You want, in other words, for the interests of social aristocracy you represent, people with low education, low expectations, who will be a cheap and flexible workforce tomorrow in poorly paid and insecure jobs, ultimately citizens of heterones and manipulated by those who have high knowledge, power and thus also the means of production. This is your plan, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, for the Greek society, the continuation of our country's dependence by other means. Besides, this is the story of your life, it is the footprint of the right-wing party and the legacy of the right in Greece: a country dependent, with citizens dependent. Neither SYRIZA nor the Greek people will allow that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u319	Mr. Boobas has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would not like to see the image of Parliament's channel falling, but I feel the need, because I do 30 years of television, to say that it is not my fault. It could happen. It's live, so don't accuse us of being deliberately. This can be done for too many technical reasons. I wouldn't like it, but it happens on live broadcasts, because I've lived it through TV for a long time. The university is neutral as a genus and must remain neutral outside of political purposes, strangles and labels. But research and science are a genus of females. They must have ideas. People, he says, are divided into two categories, into those who are looking and finding, and those who are not happy. It is a proverb that comes from Romania or is what the poet, Paul Valerie, once said, that people are unreasonable about what they are looking for and great about what they find. That's what you know. It's the magic of research. This is the dream trip. I want to ask the following question. We want to legislate today. The shareholders in investing in education on the education market that is the stock exchange of life, the students themselves, and not the shareholders, have we asked them? They're staying unowned? Because, you know, we were also talking party orders. They want to go to party parties to feel that as entities and as personalities they will be heard, to take jobs from some parts, known, because as entities and as personalities, as stadiums and cells we do not actively listen to them. So we have to give them the supplies. How? There is a solution, a proposal which the Ministry of Education will have time to process. The Troika of the Ministry of Education - the shape of speech - has a heavy curriculum. Good for you! It's a big arrow. In America, Mrs. Kerameau as a lawyer, France, too, with a Postgraduate degree in Commercial Law, has lived in the university. Mr. Dillakis himself. I carefully read his CV, he was a researcher in Boston. So their curriculum is rich, as is Mrs Zacharakis's in London, as an English teacher. So, gentlemen, you have a great responsibility. You were a dean, Mr. Digalakis! Will you put 2% of the budget - you want from 80%, do you want 20%? - there's a platform where students, according to American standards, who have lived in Harvard, Mrs. Kerameos, apply - to evaluate the teachers, but don't seem, at just one chance. Be a system like TAXIS. He's going in and he's going to assess his teacher. And that's where you give a 2% funding bonus to the teacher. It's in America, and the teachers have the guarantees to be good. How will they be good? They have knowledge, they're convinced, they're contagious? Students, too, to judge as personalities and as active cells the teachers themselves. This is true at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. There's an evaluation platform, but it's optional. Make it compulsory. There's no better thing than that. Here is magic, so that students, too, do not need to go to the hug of party orders to be heard as a team, but to have a say, an opinion. He's eighteen years old, they're adults, they have opinions and judgment. In Cyprus, Mr Georgiou, the president of the law will bring law to be candidates for the new Members of Parliament twenty-one years. So let's give them a say, give them the guarantees. Do this and immediately the education will get wings. Why, what have we said? Head may be the Minister. The conclusion needs to be made through a committee that's working on it. It's the deposit, the future. The sitter recognizes it. Make this system possible for students and their families, who pay a heavy tax on education, to evaluate teachers. I don't know if the name Nikos Madias tells you something. There was a Greek, an amazing investigator in Boston. But his students didn't appreciate him properly. Do you know why? He lost the interpersonal relationship with the students, lost the humanitarian factor. We don't want a scientist, we want a human being. It's like a family we get the best toys for a kid, but we don't deal with the kid. So Mr Madias was not properly evaluated in Boston and changed Rota. He's been more involved with his students. So give it to the deaf, like education, because education cannot be a straight line, just like life itself. The cardiogram is despicable. If it becomes a straight line, it dies - so give the students a percentage. Process it, I know you can't vote this right now. Process it and enable them, through a platform, to be mandatory to assess from students to teachers - this is the stock exchange of the university of life itself - to sit on lit coals and not to be tampered, not to create a state of affairs towards students. You know, there are very nice programs. The head of the Hippocrates Hospital in Cardiology, when it was in America, was rated every two months. Don't do it every two months. Do it every six months. But do it compulsory. There are, you know, programs - I remember a friend, Stavros Argyriou, with the arxia.gr - where children can learn Ancient Greek gospels. We make their lives difficult. Evaluation, my Minister, and my Minister, the students to the teachers in order to be inclined to enable these children to go out tomorrow and say 'we had the joy of creating the university'. Don't cut their dreams! Look, education is about us all, and we'll be accountable. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u321	Mrs. Merope Jufi has the floor from SYRIZA for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after a brutal procedure we are finally coming to an end. I would like to say two words on this question of evaluation, to tell my dear colleague that this process which he describes is a typical process which higher education institutions do. And the students evaluate and there are training committees, which have a procedure for this assessment to be a worthwhile one and indeed to the development criteria of the LAG members is the evaluation by their students. Therefore, those of us who have been involved in universities and have been through such procedures and I must say that they have carried out such procedures, which have many issues and problems and, above all, have too much cost, very personal time and has been one of the issues that I have not had time for the Minister responsible. You know that in Great Britain, the cost of evaluation is important, and that is why internal and external evaluation cannot be carried out every year and the annual budget cannot be associated with it. They are therefore serious and critical procedures. There are - and it is registered, you have also been written in your comments, Mr Demetropoulos - certain amounts that the evaluation costs and not just the rating agency. There is no GCC report in yours. You say that the costs to be incurred for this system have not been foreseen and have not been submitted by the Ministry of Education. I would also expect to hear a specific answer from him. It is therefore a difficult, painful process, it has an important piece of bureaucracy and it also has various elements which some colleagues, namely Mr Varoufakis, have raised some of what can create problems in what we are looking for, better quality in our universities. The second point, which I would like to raise, is that you said that we are an area that says 'no' unfoundedly - the Prime Minister said so - and we are turning them all into a barracks of party competition. Here I should like to say that in our main theme, which is the evaluation to be linked to 20% of funding, we have proposed very specific: Give regular funding to the amount that is and beyond if you want to reward the higher education institutions, give it as a bonus this 20%. This is not an opinion of the SYRIZA, it is a view of the Overseas Council, which makes you very critical of this issue and calls for you not to go into this way of legislating. Therefore, it is not unfounded ‘no’. The same applies to members of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, to EKT Philosophy, to the University of Thessaly, to the dean of Ioannina, the Panteion University, to various trade unions of important importance, such as KPAN of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, to the Settlement, to university teachers, and lastly to the Aristotle University. So there is a university world that is even called upon to implement what you call reforms, which is across the street. This, as you can see, will create major difficulties in implementing it, because today's provision will be passed, as has been done with other legislation in the past, which in practice has proved to be impossible to implement. The third point, to which I wish to address myself, is the famous article 50. And here we all share the educational community across the street and you will allow me to say, with the exception of the Greek Solution that I do not understand what position it will take on the subject, that even your trade unions think it is wrong to insist that you legislate in this direction. You are abrogating, Mrs. Kerameau, what's the matter. He's going down right now. The special education and training notice, which provided as the only possibility for foreign graduates or colleges to have been academic equivalence through the IATAP and restore the old Arvanitopoulos system, has been completed. As far as the argument that the letter is concerned is concerned, I therefore strongly asked you to tell me whether it is classified and to give us the opportunity to look at it in detail. So it says there that the Ministry should take a stand on this problem that the European Commission puts it. This does not mean that the Ministry, you, on such matters as serious national issues and high academic qualifications, were obliged to go ahead with this type of regulation. It is your choice, therefore, to equal the degrees for permanent appointments to education and - I repeat - and the special education and training notice has already been closed in the previous way. And I'm ending up sweet with the education finances. I won't come back to say numbers. To say here to our favourite Minister that the percentage currently allocated as a percentage of GDP for education is very low, still remains. It's at 2.8%. With the medium-term Samara - Venizelos, following severe reductions in the years of the memoranda, which was about 34%, while GDP was down to 25%, it was projected to fall to 1.87%. It's hard to find it there. In fact, there is only 0.8% of higher education within it. In neighbouring Italy, the Minister of Education, a member of the Democratic Party, resigned because his request was for the Italian budget to rise to 3.6%, which was one of the lowest average conditions for the European Union, and even proposed taxes on air tickets, plastics and sugars, so that those funds which education needs can be found. As Mr Digalakis and Mr Stefanidis and those who come from higher education have said, the part of sub-financing of higher education along with sub-station is one of the most critical factors when one wants to talk about qualities, and it is crucial for the part of the development of the country, because without the restoration of spiritual capital, higher education and research can play this role and have started to play it, we cannot go any further.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, Mrs. Jufi. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that the Ministers for Health, Economic and Education and Religious Affairs tabled a draft law on 21-1-2020: "Following its individual donation contracts from 6.9.2018 Donation Convention between the Foundation "Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation" and the Greek State in order to strengthen and upgrade the infrastructure in the field of health ratified by Law 4564/2018 (A to 170). It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr. Stylianides from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u324	I could start vice versa with what you said, but I will insist on what I had planned. Four, Mr President, I shall conclude by pointing out that, after a long debate, I think it is a fruitful debate. First label. The opposition raised arguments about a, in my opinion, an outdated dilemma that conflicts the public with the private educational service provider. In my opinion, this is both outdated and ideological nowadays. Today we should discuss two other goods or rights. One is the quality of education and the second is accessibility. If the poor child has accessibility, it does not matter whether the provider of a service is public or private, provided that the service is of quality. One hundred and eighty five to one hundred ninety days a year works the public university. The rest could have been used for lifelong learning, for attracting foreign students, for research programs, for educational programs for companies or public bodies, for the benefit of the university. It's not like that. Let's think about why we can't. Second point. Many Members have wondered why we cannot reach national agreement on education. I, after quite a long journey in the field of education and politics, intend to give you the answer. Because education is about the most sacred one with a family, her child. The Ministry of Education is currently talking about a million six hundred thousand children, i.e. one million six hundred thousand families, five and a half million voters. So when the parties are in here trying to make political unwritten votes, there is no way that they will be held responsible for the future of this country and, of course, of the younger generation. My view is that this bill just answers this point. It entrusts the development of a national strategy for higher education to an independent authority, which, if staffed with quality persons, and whether it has a lasting and systematic status in its work, can give us results that will be signed by all parties, since it is a quality production of a work that has been preceded by a system and commitment. The third point concerns financing. Turn around, turn around, turn around, criticize the minister, criticize both the ministry and the government for funding. So I return the question. How much money do these universities get from the market? Why have the market and society so far not trusted higher education institutions? That's never gonna bother us? At the time when I was the Minister of Education, which was a blossom period for the country, we had the fifth best government funding for higher education institutions in the Eurozone and our foundations were last in turnover. Because the market didn't trust to go to invest up there research, educational or other programmes, because it didn't know who to talk about. Who would he talk to with the trade unionist? Who would he talk to? With him who was placed on the basis of his party interest or private, personal interest rather than the institution's interest? We therefore have to give the answer there. The funding when it mobilizes, if the institution produces results to get this 20%, 20% will have a queue of much more money for the institution. Fourth point. We are talking about absorption in the labour market and I see that opposition in her mind only has civil servants. In other words, it considers employment rights to be professional rights only those which lead to the status of a civil servant. Absorption is not measured either at national or international level with this criterion alone. In other universities that distinguish internationally, absorption is measured by how society and the market demand the operators you produce to enter into production and give a reward. This criterion, when will you finally set it as an evaluation criterion? And one example at the end, Mr President, and that is what I am closing down. I served and continue to serve two important universities. I'm a public child, first of all, so there won't be any prejudice. I'm not finished college. Public school I'm done with the 1st Komotini High School. State University I'm done with, the Democritus University of Thrace. It was a public university that I did my doctorate in Hamburg. I would like to tell you that the universities I believe and serve and serve are the Democritus, the public university and the European University of Cyprus, which is a PPP. It is, on the one hand, American private capital and, on the other, the French State, with management Greek. Would you like me to give you a comparison, so that we can end with this conversation tonight, so that the final taste of the Greek people can stay? The Democritus University has twenty-eight thousand students, Greeks only, few foreigners, occasionally, four operating seats and budget in 2019 at 5.6 million, if I remember well. This must work and produce results for these children. The European University of Cyprus, which is newly established, has six and a half thousand students, seventy different nationalities, with a turnover of 45 million a year and a net profit for the institution and for the Republic of Cyprus of over 10 million and a thousand employees, a thousand families eating bread from there. I want to say with this that we must finally understand that the world has changed, that we have to deal with the area of education differently. If we ensure quality and at the same time accessibility for a social group, which may not have the financial potential, in modern ways, it is certain that our institutions will have wings. Because our foundations have distinguished scientific potential. They have not been effective, because the institutional framework that has prevailed over so many years, combined with the idealism imposed by the Left on this place, has not allowed them to fly. I am sure and trusted in the scientific potential of the country that under the proper political choices, with the support of society first and then the market, it will record results uniquely, which will bring Greece back to the leading roles, to those who really deserve our country to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u325	The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: "National Authority of Higher Education, Special Accounts for Higher Education Research Institutions, Research and Technology Bodies and other provisions" is closed. A request for a roll-call vote has been submitted on Articles 16, 33 and 50 of the draft law by Members of the SYRIZA, which will be held on Thursday 23 January 2020, following the debate on the current questions. We are entering the vote on the principle and on the other articles, and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, sixty articles and three amendments. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. After you have registered your vote, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. For any question, please contact the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u326	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I inform you that Mrs Hara Kefalidou, a special speaker of the Change Movement, after consultation with the President of Parliament, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, said that she had a problem in the process of electronic voting on the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs of 21-1-2020 and called for her vote to be registered on the principle of "NAI" rather than "OTH", as was mistakenly included in the system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u327	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u328	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and will appear on the screens of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u329	After the conclusion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: "National Authority of Higher Education, Special Accounts for Higher Education Institutions, Research and Technology and other provisions", was accepted in principle, articles and amendments by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-21-S1-commons.u330	With the agreement of the House at 23.46' the sitting is closed for Wednesday, Wednesday, 22 January 2020, at 10.30', on the subject of the proceedings of the House, the election of President of the Republic, by roll-call vote, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House.
