ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 244-2020 authorisation, PKZ's PKZ minutes were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau on Friday, April 24, 2020, as regards the vote on the entire draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Structuring it from 30.3.20 BC. "Confronting the CIVID-19 pandemic and other emergency provisions" (A'75) and other provisions"]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 4 May 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Constantine Marcos, Member of the Radical Left, to the Minister of Finance, on 'Removal of the main residence protection and deduction of debtors from its protective framework'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Kilkis of the Change Movement Mr Georgios Frangidis to the Minister of Tourism on the subject: "The need for a comprehensive support and rebooting plan for tourism". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Euklidis Tsakalotou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Measures to support the middle class" 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 642/27-4-2020 by the Member of the Ilias of Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrin, to the Minister of Finance, on "The protection of the first residence is a matter for the banks and institutions?" 3. The question under number 643/27-4-2020 is a topical question by MP B2' West Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "The reopening of the courts, mortgages and property offices, without any protection, leaves a large proportion of our citizens exposed."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that the topical and urgent questions that have been tabled and will be discussed today are as follows: Question No 634/24/2020 is to be answered by the Minister for Migration and Asylum, Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis, by Question No 640/27-4-2020 to be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food, Mr Mavroudi Voridis, Question No 637/24-2020 to be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs Mr Domna Michailidou and Question No 633-24-20 and Question No 641/27-4-20 to be answered by Mr Kolozamanis. We are now entering the third with number 640/27-4-2020 a top-level question from the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Vassiliou Vassiliou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "The financial tools of the EEA (Agricultural Development Guarantee Fund) have not yet been implemented. The current question will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Mavroudis Voridis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. First I would like to wish many years, Christ Anestis! Minister, the coronary pandemic found the farmer and the farmer at a particularly difficult time. He found him at a particularly increased cost of production, found him waiting for compensation from 2019 from ELGA and PESA since 2017. However, he also found the farmer to have suffered a severe blow to his income, as well as to the fisherman, but also to the beekeeper. The need for the growing period for access to liquidity is undeniable. On 6 September 2019, Minister, as you know, you signed a financial instrument contract with the European Investment Fund, a contract prepared by the previous government. On the same day, you announced that at the beginning of 2020 these financial instruments will be ready to provide access to farmers for loans with low interest rates and with guarantees from the Greek State. Then, in the Agrotica report you said that within the first quarter farmers will now have access to these financial instruments. As you can see, the need for access to funding in the run-up to funding and non-existence - let me say - an overall plan for agricultural production in the face of the pandemic becomes imperative. I ask you: First, what went wrong - if something went wrong - and these financial instruments have not been launched? Secondly, can you say today exactly when farmers will have access to the high production costs and the growing needs that are now arising this month, and especially the other month? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, as you know, this is a case - which you rightly pointed out in the way you described it - which is not controlled by the Ministry of Rural Development. You understand that. We have signed the Convention, we have transferred the sums that we have had to carry, these 80 million from the Rural Development Programme, in order to provide the guarantee basis for leverage, which would allow these amounts to exist and from that point on it has left us. Obviously, we're watching it because we're of vital interest. That is why we are in constant and permanent contact with the institutions, but with the institutions which are now discussing the development of this instrument. I'll submit for your information the last communication we've had. It's the last after a series of communications, because we're constantly in touch. And what I am transporting you from time to time is actually what I am being transferred from the European Fund, which is running the issue. So, as regards what has happened, I would like to tell you that what has been done is that the first stage has ended. The first stage concerned the pre-selection of financial institutions. In short, since we transferred these amounts, a call came out and called on the financial institutions to take part in this tool. There was a great deal of interest. I do not hide you - and I have said it publicly - that I was anxious about the bank interest in this tool. There was, therefore, a great deal of interest and much more response. All four systemic and all three other banks have shown interest in participating in this. Finished this pre-selection stage and they've been in the second stage. The second stage includes the so-called due diligence, due diligence, control and analysis of financial institutions with a detailed examination of the proposed portfolios and a detailed analysis of the eligibility and other obligations with which financial institutions must comply. This is now delaying. I stress that there is no delay in our hands. This is a delay in the European Investment Fund. Why? Because, firstly, the number of proposals was higher. This was a good thing. On the other hand, this created an additional burden on work and a particularly severe burden on the fund's headquarters, imposed on the grounds of the pandemic. In other words, the pandemic, here, influenced the evolution and flow that was to exist and is expected to be completed in May. The third stage includes the adoption of the final results of the preceding stages by the Board of Directors of the European Investment Fund and the opening of negotiations between the Fund and financial institutions for the signing of operational agreements, which are expected to be signed in July. So we're in constant communication. I give you the last letter - unfortunately it is in English, we have not been able to translate it, but I think you have access to it and translation - which the fund sends to the Ministry, following another letter from our own prior letter and which we are asking to know how this case is going and where, back, there is an annex in which the stages and timetable that the fund gives us for the development of this tool are detailed. I am presenting it for use by the House, but also by colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u8	Minister, I note that you are now much more glamorous in terms of your predictions than in January 2020, but also in September 2019. Certainly the Ministry of Rural Development is not just one of the parties involved, but it is only about people who are related to the Ministry of Rural Development. In other words, it concerns farmers, farmers, beekeepers, fishermen. So on the basis of yours - let me speak - you have a lot more tactic. As far as I am concerned - I will also see the document after this year's document will hardly have any financial tools for this growing season. I repeat, from what I understood in your reply. Minister, despite the fact that it is not on the timely question, let me ask you - I know that you can answer - the overall plan for agricultural production. We hear you say that we are seeing and doing, that farmers have not suffered damage, some have suffered, some have not. We also hear you say about the 10 million of flowers - you did well, but you have announced them, you have not given them - and some millions of coastal fishing for which you have also done well, but you have not yet given them. When will you be ready for a comprehensive plan, for example, for livestock farming? Before Sunday in the Baion, we heard you say that soon we will see what damage the farmers have suffered and move on. Yesterday - I think the Undersecretary - said that after the Mayoy we will see the damage suffered by farmers. Anyway, when will you be ready? This year or next year? When? And until you decide, don't you pay the compensation for the ELGA unfinished? With what tactic? What criteria do you choose certain products, which - I do not oppose - have they been damaged? Has the almond not been damaged? Has the wine sector not suffered damage, wine and winegrowers? What is the plan at the moment of the Ministry of Rural Development to see the damage? Have you set up any committees? Have you said 'Come here, guys, see what damage has been done by the coronary, directly or indirectly or later'? What's that plan? From Mr Stakora's 150 million you said that only the 10 million would go to flowering and the 15 million to coastal fishing. Correct me if I'm wrong. In any case, farmers are waiting today to hear from you a comprehensive plan and short-term response to the consequences of the coronary, Minister, but more importantly, they expect from you, the Minister for Rural Development, the long-term plan of Greek agriculture, in view of the violent change in working conditions in the farmer and the farmer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. Come on, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u10	First of all, I am pleased, Mr Colleague, that we have agreed on this important financial instrument, and that control is in the European Fund and, of course, in the contracting parties, credit institutions. Indeed, it is something that we are very interested in. Indeed, it is something that we are watching. Indeed, it is something that we are doing all we can to speed up the process, but it is clear that we are no longer the parties involved. We agreed on that, and I think that's why you came to the next. The next one is our overall plan. I am happy to answer you for our overall plan. I'm not sure that two and a half minutes are enough, but let me put some telegraphs in. A basic option that is in the contrast of various things, which I have heard from time to time defend, is this: firstly, we will not do - I stress, we will not - horizontal intervention and support in the primary sector. Why don't we? Very simply because there is no symmetrical impact on the primary sector from the coronary. There are products which go exceptionally and would be absolutely stupid to go and give them support. Oranges went and go amazingly, in a historical high. We've made a record of exporting, demand record, price record. The rice went exceptionally, with export record, demand record, price record, as well as hard stalks, kiwi and wider fruit and vegetable sector. I imagine that you do not support these products which, precisely because of the coronary, have a very important positive route to go along with. So we are doing the opposite - and this is the plan - of what we have heard from many of you. So what do we say? We say that we see what impact there and that is where we are intervening in order to support the problem. Where have there been direct consequences? There have been direct effects on blooming. Why? Because, obviously, the blooms closed, the blooms closed, they have no possibility of channelling anything, and at that time they made 70% of their total turnover annually. There was a need to support them. So what did we do? We have studied the impact, we have seen the total turnover, we have seen what is lost, we have determined the amount, we have negotiated with the stakeholders, the collective representatives of the people concerned, and we have reached an amount, we have reached area aid and we have gone and given it. We have done the same with regard to fisheries. Why does fishing have an impact? Because the catering shops have been closed and the loss of demand from domestic demand is not replaced. Why? Because our consumption habits are not that we eat the fish in the house so much, we actually eat it in catering areas. So there was a significant impact of demand now. The assessment of the bodies is that this impact will be mitigated by the end of the year, i.e. what appears to be a significant impact, there is an estimate that by the end of the year it will have been somewhat mitigated. And what did we do? We have identified the impact and we are actually using tools - these 15 million which you have heard - to support fishermen is a strengthening of small coastal fishing - and they still remain to be identified for the largest fishermen - medium-sized and large now - with another instrument for the money that will be given and which, of course, will be in a different order of aid than for small coastal fishing. So we have a very clear plan. What's the plan? The plan is that we see the impact and we enter with the money we have and support with the appropriate financial instrument the impact that exists there. The same will be true of sheep and goats. We're in conversation. But, look out, when? Now look at why you say things that you are exposing and you are telling yourself and you are creating an extremely unfavourable impression. Well, let me tell you when. The Easter's over. When did Easter end, where did we have to see the impact? It's actually been seven to eight days. Question: Will there be consumption on the Day Day? You'll know. There will be. The consultation with their institutions is to expect to see the overall impact and the Mayor's Day. So then we'll see what the impact will be. Having identified the impact in terms of money, that is, the amount that it wants accounts. We have to look at the massacres made last year, the massacres that took place this year, the productions, how prices were shaped - prices were not the same in the previous period, others were prices during the Great Week, others were prices last week before the Great Week and before, others were prices today. Since we see this overall impact, then, we have to determine the amounts and choose the way. We're in negotiation, it's going to happen. But be careful. I want to say something as it is now an opportunity. I don't know, Madam President, if I have thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u11	Yes, you do, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u12	I would therefore like to say the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u13	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Polakis, I'm sure you're going to ask a question to discuss it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u15	The result is that consumers bought with 15 euros on the Great Sabbath the lamb and down they sold it 3,20!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u16	Mr Colleague, please very much. You're not the merciful MP.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u17	You're right, Madam President. We just missed the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u18	Watch out now. The tools that we have used in a different way and, on a case-by-case basis, I will also tell you our policy on this. When something is widened, massive and at the same time, individualised, the sums are smaller, if we have the possibility, we prefer to go to a minor compensation procedure, de minimis. Why? Because this is a process which has a limited impact, but which at that time does not touch, it is a state budget, but it is only notified to the European Commission. When we have larger sums, we actually prefer to go to the 150 million committed, but these are controlled by the Community aid regulation. They therefore want notification - they have a stronger procedure - and they are preparing for approval and observance of the regulation. I would be very pleased to inform you in detail of the conditions required to provide this money. This will be the case where the sheep and goat farmers will go in order to strengthen them. When we have the possibility of even greater amounts of incorporating them into measures either in the Fisheries Programme or the Rural Development Programme - this will be the case of wine, which has a specific regulation and which will be amended and there will be specific measures to strengthen the wine - then we are going there, but this is a process that is currently under way because the changes to the provisional regulations have just been adopted. As far as the Rural Development Programme is not concerned, this is still under way. However, our first option - and I think you will be right about this - is at a time when the budget is objectively pressed and, if we have European money, we can make use of European money to strengthen our producers and keep the amounts of the budget for the future. And I want to stress it to everyone to get in touch with. The pandemic is not over, the financial consequences of the pandemic are not over, so we must be focused, careful, pitiful, measured, with the targeted use of taxpayers' money and budgets, so that we can be effective in supporting them. I fully explained our plan. I think it is the only sustainable project to support our producers effectively. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the following to this House: The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics shall submit its report to the Prosecutor's request for authorisation to prosecute a criminal prosecution against a Member. The Ministers for the Environment and Energy, Economic, Development and Investment, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religion, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism and State tabled a draft law on 24-2020: ‘Modernisation of environmental legislation, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directives 2018/844 and 2019/692 of the European Parliament and of the Council and other provisions’. I would also like to inform you that the third under number 639-27-2020 topical question by MP B3' South Athens Section of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The workers in tourism" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the honourable Member. The first question will now be discussed under number 634/24-2020 in the second cycle of MP B3' South Athens, the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Mousala, to the Minister for Migration and Asylum, on the subject: 'Koronoise impacts on housing structures for asylum seekers and refugees'. In the timely question will be answered by the Minister of Immigration and Asylum Mr. Panagiotis Mitarakis. Mr. Muzala, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u20	Madam President, thank you very much. Mr. Metarakis, thank you so much for coming in these difficult circumstances. It is a good thing that dialogue is taking place. Let me say that we are coming out of the first stage and unanimously all opposition parties supported the government in the phase that adopted the guidelines of the World Health Organisation and the Committee on Infectious Substances. Unfortunately, we do not go out with the same consensus as we did. There are now too many disagreements from all parties in opposition. Watch out for the schools. They don't have to open schools except high school 3. Let us not lead our people to 'Waterloo' after this attempt. Let me say that I am very pleased that we have received an imperial prosperity from the government through the Prime Minister, who has honoured us with her confidence in the Greek people and we have not betrayed that confidence. These are strange things, but they happen. Minister, while throughout the Greek territory it was applied by our people, with the inducement of the Committee of Infections and the adoption by the Government, "We stay Home - We keep social distances", there was a large proportion of people on Greek territory who were left to the "immunition of the pack" in a barbaric way, a brutal way. They were not left with barbarically intent or mood, but that was the objective. I am referring to refugees and immigrants, asylum seekers, who are in jungles on the islands forty-five thousand and another thirty thousand are in camps and hotels. As you can see, the "Home in" in Moria's "Jungle", "Home In" in Ritson's Camp, "Home In" in the Hotel in Kranidi is something that cannot have power. There were no measures over there, although on the side of SYRIZA we had informed both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Immigration. Even the projects made by the Ministry of Immigration - and I refer to the 'Agnocrates' project - are plans to deal with the crisis after it broke out and not to deal with the problem before the crisis broke out. So this in itself is a sliding point and shows an oblivion. We're in danger. Refugees and immigrants at risk, who were found to have no cases until they manifested themselves. I mean, it wasn't one of those viruses in our country, but they started to get sick. We had the cases in Kranidia, Ritchona, Malakasa and somewhere else that we had to count and were too big and too high. There is no right to deal with the problem. And it's not a opposition mood. Obviously, the opposition will do that, too. Instead, it is an attempt to see how we can limit the risk between refugees and immigrants and how afterward refugees and immigrants, once we have passed the disease, they will not become bodies that will relay and rejuvenate the disease. The "jungles" in Moria, the way camps work and the overpopulation that has started to form are incubators of the disease. The fact that refugees and immigrants are mostly young people makes them at large without a risk of illness, even though a 10% of this number of seventy thousand are people vulnerable and therefore, with increased chances of illness. No measures have been taken, Minister. A doctor went to Chios, a further doctor went to Mytilini. "Jungle" is twenty thousand in Mytilini, as the population of Elefsina within two hundred acres. You put Richona in quarantine. Ritchon and any Ritchon can't enter quarantine. Any Richon to enter quarantine needs two hundred policemen on a daily basis to watch the quarantine. Therefore, you say things that on television make a good impression, but in practice, those involved in immigration and refugee know that they cannot be implemented. There is, therefore, a risk and the "Agnocrates" project is not enough. It's not even enough now that the crisis has erupted and emerged...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u21	Mr Colleague, I would ask you very much to put your question. You've had two minutes, and you've been in five.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u22	Yes, Madam President. I'm done. I'm doing it because you said there would be more power. Excuse me. I'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u23	There will be, Mr. Comrade. Print your question and in your dentistry you can develop what you now say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u24	I shall now conclude, Madam President. We would therefore like to know what the measures need to be taken. We are making very specific proposals to you. There can be no measures without the rapid - not immediately anymore, because on your own responsibility it would be wise to call for the immediate decongestion of the islands - decongestion of the islands so as to restore the confidence of the islands in the government. Build quarantine centres on the islands for future entrances, where residents there should also forgive the barbarity of MATs and regain their trust and build new quarantine camps or rent quarantine hotels for refugees and immigrants. In other words, small spaces in quarantine rather than huge camps of the three thousand people. Secondly, there should be massive diagnostic tests for refugees and immigrants to obtain a clear picture. I'm not talking about seventy thousand tests. There are the mathematical models that with a few thousand tests we can have a full picture. Also, to share instantly kinds of hygiene and protection - antiseptics, masks, gloves - to refugees and immigrants, instead of saying they have no handles - after they have cleaned them up. They haven't been given. In addition, the recruitment of health workers - and doctors and nurses - must be carried out in each structure. To have an automatic possibility of refugees and immigrants, regardless of their status, in the public health system, which is what you have practically abolished. Even after you voted to have this done again, as the practical procedure has not been completed. Take advantage of the communities of immigrants and refugees legally living in Greece, Mr. Minister. It is different for them to go, by your guidance, the state guidance, to explain the situation. We did this in Idomeni and it was extremely effective. They listen to their compatriots very carefully. Of course, this will be under the Ministry's guidance. I don't claim they will do it autonomously, solidarity or anything else. Finally, strengthen the public health system in general, which you neglected in relation to its needs, but much closer to the camps. I would like to conclude, Madam President, by saying this: it is irrelevant to you, but I would like to see you - you have no involvement in this, except that you are a member of this government - to make an appeal for the detainee, whose life is again in danger. This thing can't be happening. We had dead, hunger strikers at Erdogan. We'll have health losses. This thing has to be solved. It started a mistake, don't let it become a crime. Finally, let me remind you of Article 5(2) of the Constitution. The Constitution, the government at this stage, guarantees the lives of all those on Greek territory. Having a good health for refugees and immigrants is one of the main ways of guaranteeing the health of the people who receive them, namely the Greeks. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u25	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. I'd just like to make a comment. You made a placement. You didn't ask a question. You know the Rules of Procedure very well. We're almost ten minutes away. I think this is unfair to other colleagues. So I would ask at least the question of going beyond time, but being on the limit, and then in your dentistry, you can make your position. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall reply to the honourable Member strictly in time, as I always do. First of all, Mr. Colleague, it is my duty to be at the National Representation to answer you. You, as Minister for Migration Policy, did exactly the same thing and answered the questions of the Members of the then opposition officer. Ladies and gentlemen, the government was called upon to face a double crisis, a crisis of particularly increased migratory flows, which between 1 July and the end of February, increased flows were 86%, and after 1 March, we faced the asymmetric threat to our borders in the middle of a coronary and at the same time had to deal with the public health crisis. Since February, the Government has predicted, as it must do, the adverse effects on the structures of the coronary and the act of legislative content of 10 February which the National Representation recently ratified, we tried to move directly to the creation of appropriate structures on the islands, which your own MPs and you as a party of the Officerial Response not only supported but were at the forefront of the reactions, with the result that Moria remains the BIAI remains the background. Of course in Vathy, after yesterday's visit to Samos, there is now the general view of Samos society that we should definitely close down in the year and go to a new structure. We started this crisis with very poor predictions. I remember also the questions of Officer Opposition, newspaper news of the potential effects on public health on the structures of refugees and migrants. I would justly say - and we are concerned about the situation, when there are no more forty-five thousand, Mr Muszala, but thirty-eight thousand, because the government every month is now dismantling the islands. Since January 2020, we have fewer residents in the islands every month. Our aim is to have much less in the year. We're making a transition with a normality. All in all, then, I want to tell you that since the beginning of the crisis, we have had zero human life losses in the refugee structures from the coronary to a hundred thousands of structures and systematic checks. The cases are at 0,2%. There is no confirmed case on the islands, although in both Moria and VIAL and in Vathi almost daily there are checks by people who show any symptoms and every day - I do not hide it - we have an agony, waiting for the EGE to produce the results. So far the islands remain 'clean' and this is particularly important. This shows that the government's plan has brought results. It is not just the Agnodiki programme. The Agnodiki programme is indeed about dealing with the crisis in which it was created and brought results. We have a total of ninety-three structures in our country. We've got three cases. We have no cases in ninety structures in our country. The government's plan had four pillars. First, the separation of new arrivals so as not to introduce the coronary into the structures. Secondly, a restriction on the circulation of CIFs in force until 10 May. We could not impose restrictions within structures. It was not our goal that you said, the immunity of the herd, but you realise that if we put staff into structures to create separation within structures, we would probably increase the risk of getting the virus from officials inside the structures. So we protected the perimeter. Once you protect the perimeter correctly, the virus is not created in the structures. The virus is only introduced into the structures. Thirdly, we created special sanitary facilities, created quarantine structures in both Lesvos and Chios. Again, your Members have not supported us, Mr Muzala. The SYRIZA MPs have not made statements in favour of the government and municipal councils that have created quarantine structures. On the one hand, you talk about decongestion, quarantine structures, but in practice you do not rely on us in the field. So we have created health structures. Fourthly, we are constantly informing the residents of the measures to be taken. Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Muzala, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u28	Mr Minister, let me tell you that from your speech I see a complacency that you did well. You haven't done well. It is a dangerous thing when one has the responsibility of immigration, standing in 'we did it well'. The flow was not particularly increased. There was an increase in the flow within the ten months to which you were government. In relation to last ten months, we had three and a half thousand more arrivals. They are three camps or three hotels that you did not do, because your own MPs asked the government not to do so and you also suffer. That's what happened, and now that you've been trying to bring people from Mytilini. You postponed her. You promised a thousand five hundred. You were blocked in Karpenissi, blocked in Agrinio. And we say that they must be done and we will support you. For the structures on the islands that you say that our Members have not supported you, I think you are starting to reverse the issue as it exists now. There is no confidence in the islands, and after this intervention, the barbarity of MATs, in relation to your mood to dismantle the islands. If there is no movement of possible decongestion, so that the islanders can be persuaded to do so, with the first, unfortunately, your own MPs and your mayors on the islands, there will be no consent. SYRIZA, therefore, proposes a decongestion initially so that there can also be social consent to create the quarantine infirmary for new incoming people. Now look at what you say: 'Controls are being carried out'. No checks, Mr. Metarakis. There'll be checks after someone gets sick. In the camps, mass tests must be carried out. There's no point in quarantine the Skunk after some get sick and then the tests are done and a hundred and fifty positive ones are found. Think of what can be done in other cities. I don't want to raise automation. I understand that we are stranded between reassuring refugees, but above all our people and creating a social automation that is at the expense of our people. There's got to be a test. This is prevention in places where there are three thousand people trapped and forced to live aspiringly. I am not saying whether it is your responsibility or not and at this stage it is not our responsibility. So you don't know if you have cases. You only know after you have hospitals, and it has to be the opposite. Finally, you said you were protecting the perimeter. You're not protecting the perimeter and you know it. It's not protected. Tell me, which forces are you protecting Richard? What forces are you protecting the jungle in Moria? Which forces are you protecting under the police protocols? You don't make infirmary. In Chios, for example, the district put a doctorate outside of another room for two people as sick, but not like quarantines. You do the same to Moria. Personnel didn't hire. I shall end with this: you must prevent. I wish for this speech here, for this position - question, tomorrow, they would say: "Look at what nonsense Muzalas was saying." That's good for the country. Bad for the country and the government's responsibility will be if what I tell you today is not nonsense, but they are real fears, real concerns, which we must prevent and reassure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u29	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I do not disagree with your anxiety, and at the very first time I said to you - and I said it in my prototype - that it was justified and any unpleasant predictions and I did not speak with any complacentness. I have just described what has happened in recent months in practice on the issue of coronary and structural issues. You referred to the Skull. There was a case in the Skunk. We went directly with Mr Chiorda and Mr Hardalia, there was a general check on the residences. Three-quarters of all of the country's cases are in this structure. The structure has been limited since the first time that there was suspicion of a case and before the checks, i.e. since the Great Thursday it has been restricted and it is particularly good that several residents of the region have been controlled and there is no transmission of the virus from structures to local society. So that is the results so far. As for the fact that there are risks, there are, of course, risks. On the subject of mass controls you are proposing, we are following the same protocol that we are pursuing to the general public. We'll follow any instructions the experts give us. The government has been facing the crisis at the very first moment on the basis of the directives we have. Whether it is indicative or not that multiple tests have been carried out on the structures by those who have symptoms and appear to have no cases, for us it is an element that gives us the right to say the statistics that I have told you before. We hired a hundred and fifty people on the structures, so they've been recruited, we've taken extra staff to contribute to the measures to be imposed. There are active illnesses, there are spaces outside structures, both in Lesvos and in Chios and Samos. You may not have been informed, but there are structures in place in case they are going to be needed, because at the moment I want to tell you that the flows in April are zero. We therefore do not have the need to activate at this time, but the spaces are there and there are. The government has been serious about a crisis since the first moment. I told you that the flows were plus 86%, so we had a topic of flows, which caused congestion on the islands. Why were they congested in the islands? I think we've talked about it before. The 2016 European Union-Turkey Joint Declaration on SYRIZA Days provides that asylum should be considered exclusively on the islands so that our country has a right to return. You, as a government, did not care about the matter of refunds, so you transferred them to the mainland, so there were no refunds in the SYRIZA administration. We have a different policy. We want those who are not entitled to international protection to be deported. That is what we did in the first two months of 2020, tripling the returns to Turkey with twelve missions in two months. Twice a week she was leaving Lesvos for Turkey. We've announced the evidence. It's all in the newsletter we've published every month. It was three times more than you did from a low base. So this created congestion on the islands. I would also like to say that it is good that the UN High Commissioner for Refugees in his speech yesterday with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis expressed his support for the Greek Government for the measures we have taken. We carry the vulnerable. We've announced two thousand three hundred eighty-eighty moves. There's already been a 1/3 of these movements, and we're going on. No plan has been blocked. The number one thousand, five hundred you mentioned, I haven't said it. There was an estimate that they might leave a certain date specific individuals. They leave on more breaking dates, because ETA asked us not to leave all so many with a ship. Let me tell you one last thing. In the first quarter of 2020, according to official figures from both the Ministry of Immigration and the Ministry of Civil Protection, ten thousand seven hundred refugees and immigrants left the islands. We absorbed all the flows that the first quarter was nine thousand and we already have quite fewer. I told you before that it's not forty-five thousand you said, it's thirty-eight thousand on the islands. So the decongestion started and done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u31	I too, Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u32	We told you and we wash our hands, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u33	We continue with the first with the number 633-24-2020 top-level question of the first cycle of the MP Iraklio of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The permanent and non-opportunistic upgrading of the role of primary health care". The timely question by my fellow Member will be answered by the State Secretary for Health Mr Kontozamanis. Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I believe that an important given given that we must keep from the suffering that the Greek people have been experiencing in recent years is the recognition of the public health system. I think that the assessment and attitude of Greek society towards the public health system and its employees is such that it has attracted the political positions of the whole country. All the political forces today, even those who have so far undermined it, are talking today about the value of the public health system and the need to strengthen it. In this respect, and I think that lately, I believe - and I would like an answer from you, Minister - that there are delays in strengthening health units with the necessary subsidiary staff and that there is a refusal by the government to carry out permanent recruitments. As far as this public health system is concerned, we in this public health system consider primary health care to be its basic foundation, an organic part, a basic component of it, its foundation. It is the primary health care that will provide the necessary clinical work, which will provide preventive medicine - I am referring to organised vaccinations - which will provide recovery by reducing the required intra-Holy hospital treatment, which will provide higher prevention - I am referring to the monitoring of the patient - which will provide all the social policy structures of the municipalities today. Especially for pandemics. Primary health care can help to monitor patients with mild symptoms that you know, Minister, is about 80% of people taking a directive to stay at home. Also, primary health care can help with the necessary process of controlling the prevalence of the disease, i.e. it can help to manage the pandemic abroad. That is why we have asked for organised, planned and planned to integrate primary health care into the treatment of pandemic. Instead, not in words, but in practice we have seen from your government, on the one hand, getting staff from primary health care to the hospitals, and that is why I would like an answer, because in my opinion neither the hospitals nor the hospitals are making it easier for the hospitals to get relief and, more so, this very health front in the community. A second point which I would like you to raise, Mr Minister, is that your own communications on the payment of services to hospitals, namely the question of the remuneration of staff working in the national health system and a clear political commitment from the government is needed. The question - and I close with this - is, will we have an opportunity for as long as it keeps bad, pandemic, strengthening primary health care, or will we have a long-term planned, planned strengthening of it and in a prospect - which is its role - be an integral organic part of the National Health Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Igoumenides, once again, I would stress the fact that the government is committed to the public health system. Of course, there is a different concept of how you perceive the public health system and how we do. However, we have never been against the public health system, and we have always said - and we will say so - that the National Health System will be strengthened, not only because of the pandemic but also after the pandemic. I would remind you that within a minimum period of two months now of the pandemic crisis, the National Health System has made huge leaps in its shortcomings and distortions of the past. We have acquired not only the experience but also the appropriate tools so that after the crisis of the coronary pandemic we can still make it stronger, more modern, more effective, which will meet the needs of all citizens in the country. It must be fully understood, as far as pandemic is concerned, that we are at the end of the day. That is why, as I said, we will continue to be fully prepared. Primary health care has played an important role, - I would say - in recent months. Some moves were made targeted at hospitals. Anyway, that's not forbidden. You're allowed. In any case, however, primary health care was on hand and responded to both the cases of the coronary and the suspected cases. In any case, we have also established health centres exclusively for coronary. Furthermore, primary health care also responded to the provision of health services to all citizens, whether they were either suspected cases or our chronic patients or our fellow citizens who were in need of primary health care services. The more than two hundred health centres across the territory worked properly - and operate - during the pandemic period. Several structures of what we have created exclusively for case management will continue to manage any cases. We have seen what we are saying all the years when there was no integrated primary health care system in the country, that primary health care will be able, if there is an integrated system, to dismantle hospitals, secondary and tertiary health care, in order to provide health services more efficiently for citizens and especially for large urban centres. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Madam President, I will take some time from my denology. In this context, we have also created health services which will remain after the coronary. These are electronic services, intangible prescribing, repetition of prescriptions. They are services which improve the daily lives of citizens and do not trouble them in their daily contact with the health system. And they are services which, fortunately, have been implemented in a short time because of the horn pandemic and our fellow citizens enjoy these services. And this will continue and be extended. Also, as regards carrying out the tests for the control of the population, we can - and at primary level - meet the needs. As you referred to subsidiary staff, I would remind you that it was your own government's arrest and implementation. We have stressed many times that we will meet standing and constant needs in the national health system. We have made more than four thousand additional recruitments because of the coronary pandemic. Our original programming was two thousand recruitments. Of course, there are also permanent recruitments scheduled for the National Health System. I would also remind you that in 2014 the New Democracy Government set the foundations for an integrated primary health care system. You just came after and changed names and procedures in the law that we voted on. In conclusion, primary health care structures will play their very important and essential role. There is a specific plan, which we of course have it ready but is also evolving because of the pandemic. However, some legislative interventions are also needed, which we will bring in the next few months, because because of the coronary crisis we were not able to legislate. I have to make it clear once again that it is not opportune to strengthen the national health system. The National Health System, at all its levels, primary, secondary and tertiary, has been strengthened, strengthened and strengthened. Our aim is to create a strong, flexible and efficient primary health care network. I repeat that the coronary crisis has shown that it can operate such a health system. And we didn't stop here. We're at the end of the beginning, as I said. Primary health care will contribute to the National Health System, this Coronary Battle, with more services such as home visits, teleconsultation and all these electronic services that have enabled our country to achieve this digital leap in the area of digital health services. Therefore, after the crisis, we will have an extensive health services network both at primary and secondary level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u37	Me, too. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, as Mr Mitsotakis said, this thing that happened in the last two months has never happened again. That's what he says. So if he thinks so, because maybe until yesterday he wasn't looking at the public health system. What I mean to say is that in memorial and budgetary conditions and without the threat of the coronary, the period of governance by SYRIZA became twenty-three thousand recruitments. It was half-a-half. It was ten thousand for permanent staff and ten thousand for subsidiary staff. Don't forget that we had the supervision of lenders and troika. In the period of governance by SYRIZA we covered all the empty organic positions of intensive care units - these were three hundred doctors - in these circumstances we worked on. At this time we had a hundred new beds in the intensive care units. We launched five hundred new hirings for the hospital's LAGs, which you haven't made. In any case, I am standing on some very specific questions: first, how many recruits have you made? The answer is easy. It's close to zero. The hard answer is not the number. The difficult task of the answer is why permanent recruitment has not progressed. Every day, so that you do not cut off from the moods of society, thank the doctors and officials of the public health system. Yesterday, all of them were in mobilizations. I'll testify in the minutes from the statement of Heraklion's hospital doctors. At the same wavelength, everyone moves. "On the occasion of the pandemic, the deadlock of covering gaps with contractors is on the surface instead of permanent staff." I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, as far as subsidiary staff are concerned, you say that you have made four thousand recruitments. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I ask for your tolerance. But I want evidence. And I have to ask the Minister the questions. The question that has been asked repeatedly - and I shall return - is this: How many hires were made per specialty? How many of the four thousand are doctors? How many of the four thousand are per hospital and per health structure? Why am I coming back - and we all come back - to this question? Because in my opinion, when you give this information, it will appear that you do not cover those recruitments with real needs of health structures nor do you cover the actual shortages of the system in specialities. So, to provoke you at the moment, I say with all responsibility for my statement, that these recruitments are a means of building a client state and in no case is a means of strengthening the public health system. I challenge you to disprove me by presenting the facts and not the reports of ideas. Display data for recruitment per hospital, for recruitment per health structure, for recruitment per specialty. What comes to the conclusion is that basically recruitment is without planning to strengthen the public health system. Mobile health units. We designed mobile health units as an operational arm of primary health care, which will effectively help people who have difficulty in accessing the system and, in particular, the elderly in the countryside. You are organizing recruitment of a thousand people, a driver and a nurse for sampling, essentially on the basis of the absorption of some European funds. What are the criteria for recruiting these thousands of recruits? The order of priority for filing the application? Are we serious? We have called for a cross-party committee to strengthen transparency and accountability of the system in relation to the management of the pandemic. Why do you reject it? And you reject it in practice. A driver and a nurse? Why not a doctor? Why not the other health professionals? And you hire them for sampling? Well, I'll come to the sampleboards, too. What are the criteria for patient selection? What are the tests to be carried out? What is the epidemiological strategy for the operation of these units? And finally what you're implementing, which you call mobile health units, what does it have to do with the mobile health units organized by SYRIZA during his ruling? Answer. In my opinion, it's a mere synonym and only a synonym. This is a move without inspiration, without design, behind the requirements, behind and what you can. You say: Strengthen primary care units. Apart from not changing the character of the health unit a sign - we decide that this health centre should be a reference unit for the coronary - it needs personnel, it needs equipment, it needs personnel protection. I also referred to staff remuneration in my first speech. I have here - and I will also present it in the Minutes -...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u39	You're short, Mr. Comrade. Time's doubled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u40	...Published on 9 April 2020, "Tradition of a house for the needs of the port of Hersonissos". And he says the mayor who donates him to the health system: "We responded immediately to the request by the TOMY officials to strengthen them with the necessary equipment, etc., at the request of the TMY officials." TOMY's officers have asked for a container. A few hundred meters away - and I will table it in the Minutes, too, Mr Minister, - there is a building that, to an extent, is about as far as the hospital building of Ierapetra is closed, it is one of the buildings closed by the New Democracy Government on a night when it disorganised all primary health care in the country's urban fabric. It's not the mayor's fault. That's what they asked him to do, that's what he responded to. And I'm asking. What are TOMY operators organizing? What is the Ministry of Health organising primary health care? Why will the building stay closed and ask for and will you also host for the treatment of pandemic services in a container? Bearing in mind that this building is obviously not able to accommodate the health unit alone. Alongside a few hundred meters it is an EKAB station.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Colleague, please. We said to make you an extension of time, but here is almost triple your time. Please! It's not right what's going on. You know that. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u42	Thank you for your tolerance, and I'll close. I think it's not just a failure. In other words, it is not the inability of certain executives who are called upon to deal with the crisis. There's probably one such element. However, I believe - and I close with this, Madam President, and thank you for your tolerance - that the New Democracy Government is insisting on its ideas, is following a policy consistent with its ideology, a policy that has a clear social footprint, a clear classprint, which is clearly against the public health system and, in this confrontation, its position is, in fact, an increase in the vital area of the private sector. This is our different understanding, Minister. You have referred to the fact that we have a different perception. So the New Democracy does not want to strengthen primary health care because it does not want public structures to have a dominant role, but the private sector. The New Democracy does not want to strengthen the public health system, because it is all sold and purchased. Health is not a public good, but a merchandise and anyone who has the money buys it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, too. Mr President, I will repeat that we have said that there is always tolerability, but by trilling the time, I think we are not just in breach of the Rules of Procedure, but that is not right. There's a tolerance due to the special circumstances. But please respect both the next speakers and the main ministers who want to leave. Okay? Thank you very much. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Igoumenides, in your dentistry you asked another question. You have not answered what I said in my prototype or in your protology, because you are referring to a matter that is completely irrelevant to the question you have tabled and which we have come here to answer. But in any case you can ask a timely question through parliamentary control and answer it. But I can tell you two things. You have referred to ancillary staff and to distribution throughout the territory. We have submitted to Parliament a long time ago the breakdown by health region. Of course, these numbers are growing day after day. There are, of course, decisions of both hospitals and health regions in DIAGIA, which everyone has gone to, at which hospital. Therefore, the data are all available. I'll remind you that while our original design was for two thousand ancillary staff hired, we've exceeded four thousand recruits and said by the Prime Minister's mouth...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u45	But you say more than the Minister said, Mr Contozamani.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u46	They change every day, Mr. Polakis. I don't answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u47	It's because they change, that's why. Let me remind you that, through the Prime Minister's mouth, the nursing staff will remain in the health system and be permanentized in order to meet the needs. And of course, I have said it again and I say it again that for assistant doctors we will gradually turn positions into positions of curator 2, so that after crises we can fill gaps in medical staff in the National Health System. Let me say one last thing. Because you probably don't like the fact that we're strengthening with recruitment, with human resources, the health system, and you're attacking us that we make ruffles, the platform we use your own procedures. It is therefore not a question of rhetoric. We meet needs in the National Health System.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u48	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Comrade, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u50	I just ask, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u51	But you're not asking. You're not the merciful MP. There's another MP. Please, just watch.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u52	Crisis doctors' appointments for emergencies have been completed. I've been at the Department of Health since July and twenty thousand recruits I haven't found anywhere you've ever been. It's probably in the sphere of fantasy or you sum up the permanent positions that were in the cabinet and any kind of contract and not permanent positions you made in the National Health System, for example fixed-term contracts in hospitals for care, feeding and cleaning. There's no that number, and I think you're being exposed by saying those numbers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, too, Minister. We move on to the second question with number 641/27-4-2020 on the second question of F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health, on "The need for urgent measures to control and integrate into a single state plan for private clinics and welfare institutions, homes and nursing homes in the midst of a pandemic". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Both the unacceptable cases in private clinics and the tragic ending of four nephropaths, and the shocking images of the mass deaths in the nursing homes in Spain, Italy, the United States, and the tragic historical experience of such situations in the natural disasters and tragic accidents, show, in our view, the need to take urgent measures and to ensure a concrete plan and safety protocol to prevent such a dangerous development, even in the specific structures for which the question is made, Madam President. It is known that these spaces treat and host people belonging to the high-risk categories and at the same time many of them fail to serve themselves. They are structures that operate with a minimum staff and limited resources due to chronic underfunding and, at the same time, the privatisation of health and welfare as a whole and especially of these institutions. Such places, apart from private clinics, are institutions of chronic suffering, heavy disabilities and children, boarding houses and hostels for severe disabled and mentally disabled, shelters of supported living, institutions for the child without family, as well as nursing homes and nursing homes, either in the public or in the private sector. On this basis, therefore, we are asking the Minister what measures the government and the Ministry are prepared to take - on the basis of the tragic experiences of recent years - and in what directions. Questions are about whether it will go through the requisition - with what this means - to make use of the entire private health and welfare sector, so that pandemic can be dealt with effectively to the end, with a single plan and with full use of all the available infrastructure and health services in the country. Secondly, we are asking whether the government will proceed with staffing with all the necessary staff and the permanentisation of all the workers already in these structures, so that both the caretakers themselves and the workers themselves can be dealt with in terms of safety and dignity, especially during the period of pandemic. Thirdly, we call for the immediate opening of closed wings and buildings of the welfare institutions that have been closed in recent years, and also for hotels to be transported to some of the caretakers so that there is no such dangerous co-existence that is observed and, at the same time, for heavy disabled people to be accommodated, long-term suffering and elderly people who are currently alone in their homes and who are unable to serve themselves or their families are unable to support them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lambroulis, when the pandemic began, the planning of the government was primarily aimed at protecting the health of all citizens and with a view to protecting health, we have moved and taken the necessary measures. The measures for the economy and other sectors of activity of the country were then followed. This undeniable fact is due to the fact that our country has remained standing and that Greek citizens are safe. The National Health System and the social structures of the country have been fully adapted to the pandemic conditions and have worked, and since Monday it has been a fact that a gradual and controlled return to normality. I am sorry to say it, but comparing situations like Italy and Spain with that of Greece shows ignorance and total lack of contact with reality. Shocking images of mass deaths and other similar incidents were avoided, and not by accident, because we moved quickly. We did not leave any of our fellow citizens behind any age or social structures in the country, or hospitals in the country, or anywhere else, where there was a need. I'm sure it wasn't all perfect, but we did it. We have gained experience and we have the tools to move forward the next day and to be ready in case we have an unfavourable development in the course of the new coronary. But under no circumstances can we accept zeroing and levelling. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] The Greek health system, which is unfortunately not a Soviet type, is based on two pillars, the public and the private. In the management of the coronary pandemic, the private sector has been soldiered at the side of the public sector and has, in fact, been provided for by legislative acts, if necessary - it has not, fortunately, been necessary - for all structures - and the private sector - in order to deal with this crisis and thus to sum up forces to strengthen the tolerances of the National Health System. You also referred to the clinic in Peristeri. That, let me say, is an exception to the rule. Similar incidents have not been observed and this is no accidental event since all health structures in the country, including private structures, have complied with and complied with the protection rules and instructions of both the Ministry of Health and the National Public Health Organisation. Finally, I would like to point out to you that the positive development in the course of the pandemic, which results from the reduction of imports into intensive care beds, the reduction in the number of new cases, the increase in hospital facilities, makes it inappropriate for the time being to take additional measures, not to mean that we stop being vigilant and prepared. We're in full readiness. We are keeping all the infrastructure we have created to deal with the pandemic. You referred to privileged structures. Already five hundred fellow citizens with five hundred recruitments to welfare centres throughout the country are in their seats at long-distance centres. In fact, an EAW test has been carried out to shield the safety of the most vulnerable groups in the population. Also, because you referred to closed structures, many welfare centres such as Attica, for example, in the annex to Agia Barbara, closed wings have already been transformed following orders from competent ministries into emergency rooms, if necessary. Therefore, it is clear and it is demonstrated every day that we moved quickly with a plan and faced any outbursts or local epidemics of the new coronary with determination, efficiency and design. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u57	Me too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u58	Minister, the theme of the question was specific. You try to make a mini - let me take the word - account. It is your right to answer as you wish. Ignoring this, however, I do not accept that, Minister and Madam President, and I ask the Minister in his denial to withdraw it, to be removed from at least the Minutes. It is not ignorant, Minister, to come here with concrete proposals, but through the questions we ask the government. Ignorance says that? Not at all, I believe. So I would ask, Madam President, that the words mentioned by the Minister be taken back. It's challenging. We are coming here to parliamentary scrutiny with a specific procedure known, with specific questions and not as you have said to previous Members who have opened up this issue and discussed it at all times. We are discussing a particular issue and you are now opening the whole public health system and what you have done so far. These are political issues, if you like, and in the public debate each party has its positions and highlights them. In this Chamber with legislative acts, with bills, etc., we are placed. It is unacceptable, Madam President. We, Minister, say that throughout the past period we have heard a lot about these vulnerable groups and individual responsibility, but we have heard nothing - these examples that you have said are dropping in the ocean - about what measures have been taken and what plans there is to cover all of them, because it is not just this two-month period. We have a very long time before us to deal with this pandemic, with the extremities and revolts it may have. Also, the question, our attitude, our position is about what instruments have been provided to prevent unpleasant, tragic developments. We're not liking anything. And if we are talking about these tragic events, we are not talking about creating a climate. It's a reality. What we are proposing, what we are proposing, is to prevent any such type of tragic, unfavourable and unfavourable situations and it is not in the direction that you are counting on us. We specifically say to the question, and we suggest to you... [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Madam President, a little tolerance, please. We believe that all the structures should be deployed in the form of emergency. The problems are huge and the positions you have said are not enough. The responsibility is, of course, not only for the current government but also for all the previous governments, who have denounced the prosperous structures in our country which have closed down structures and said, with all that means for the respective services that our people, the vulnerable groups, need. Therefore, there is a need for staffing with all the necessary health and other staff, which is necessary, so that these institutions and structures, both in terms of security and dignity, can deal with both the caretakers and the patients. Secondly, funding and supply to ensure all necessary materials relating to protective, self-protection measures, etc. which they need in these cases, but also all the other necessary measures and the necessary interventions in infrastructures in order to meet the needs of the pandemic. Thirdly, the immediate opening of closed wings and buildings of these institutions which have been closed, as I am referring to the question, in order to be able to dismantle these spaces, and also to transfer part of the caring to these institutions, so that there is no such dangerous confrontation, and at the same time, the heavy disabled and the elderly can also be accommodated, who either cannot help themselves at home or have the corresponding support from their family, because co-concentration and the isolation of these people with these problems can evolve into a health bomb for both the carers and the workers, especially at this time. At the same time, what we are saying is that the State must assume responsibility for the functioning of the private sector structures with what this implies and be fully integrated into state planning and control of the pandemic. Fourthly, the permanentisation of all auxiliary staff and contract workers directly in health and welfare structures - particularly in welfare, since we are discussing them - because they cannot, of course, be heroes in this war, as everyone says or as you say, where you stand and where you stand, and the next day after the pandemic with this offer and the sacrifices are fired. And fifthly, whether or not - and I close, Madam President - the necessary checks on structures, which must also be carried out under normal conditions, and, of course, much more so, now that the situation imposes more intensive and detailed controls and not promote incitement practices for self-control either in the structures or in the clinical structures, which in fact lead to the degradation and preventive controls, but also to the bureaucraticisation of the whole necessary and important public health of course. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u59	Me too, Mr. Comrade. I think your questions are clear and it is certain that the Minister in his denial will answer. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Madam President. I'm sorry if Mr. Lambroulis was bothered by my phrase. I have no reason to accept his proposal to remove the word ignorance from the Minutes and to replace it with misinformation and misinformation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u61	No misinformation or misinformation. That's not our target. Is that the target, Mr. Undersecretary? Should we be misinformed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u62	You've been misinformed by misinformation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u63	That's unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Lambroulis, you're asking us if we have a plan, what we've done, what we're going to do. We have also referred to other questions, and we are talking about the plan that we have implemented during the pandemic, with which we have managed and in a few days the gradual return to rhythms before the pandemic begins. I don't think every time I have to say the same thing. If I have to, let me say it. And because you said that I referred to the nature of the public health system, to the public, to the private sector, I would like to say your question refers to the private sector's mandate. That is why I reiterated that all this has been planned, that it is in practice legislative, that we have not had to use the private sector so far, and we hope that it will not be necessary in the future. We have anticipated everything, planned it, planned it and said it too many times that in a public health system there is both the state sector and the private sector and in a critical battle for the country, as is a pandemic, it is very logical in your planning to integrate all the workers, all the structures you have, all the tools, all the weapons. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] You closed your dentistry by asking whether any checks are carried out and that they should be carried out. Clearly there are checks everywhere and they will be carried out as necessary. We intervene both preventive and repressive. You mentioned - and you are always referring to - simulations. I have said this to the previous question, and we have said it many times before, that personnel who have been hired to the health system under the subsidiary procedure - especially nurses - will remain in the system and after the pandemic crisis and after their contracts have ended. From there on, we certainly want to provide permanent solutions not only to health but everywhere. And because your question refers to the country's pro-active structures, I should like to tell you that the five hundred recruitments that have been made are yes, although they are not permanent, but we had to deal with an urgent situation and we had to take these people. They are fifty structures throughout the country in which they work in them almost three thousand - perhaps more - individuals. So what did we do? Nearly 1/3 of the already working people, the existing human resources, we have been working on these structures for this time. So we want to improve the services provided and services generally provided and social services to all Greek citizens. We came here not to break down but to build and provide the health services, all the services that each citizen needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. We are going to the second debate under number 637-24-2020 in the first cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Boeotian Movement of Change Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "Additional measures to support and integrate those that the government is ignoring." The current question will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Domna Michailidou. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. You will allow me to wish you, the main ministers and the Minister and the officials of this House many years. Health, strength and patience. Madam Minister, the question refers to specific issues relating to pandemic, this which goes on and we do not know what progress will be made. I wish everything would go positive, as it is so far. We all wish that. I shall say, however, from the outset, that there are too many problems in terms of industrial relations and in the affected groups. Unfortunately, I'm going to start with pandemic fires. While there are no redundancies in the private sector, Minister, unfortunately TRAINOSE and ELTA have denounced contracts of work in the middle of a pandemic. I shall also refer to the fact that there are still pensioners who have not been retired. Information reports for a hundred and sixty thousand pensioners who have not been retired. And not only that, he hasn't even taken the temporary large number of them. I shall refer to those who have been on long-term job. Although the Minister at a radio interview at the "Athens - Macedonian News Agency" said specifically that immediately after Easter will enter, among other things, under the umbrella of protection and workers working on a job, there was indeed satisfaction with the demand and suggestions and the bodies - with the FEK 1547/22-24-20, the workers who are in long-term work prevalence were out. I will say, of course, that so far there has been no integration into the heavy and unhealthy professions of health, as has been requested and all those at the forefront today. And, of course, these health workers, not even the uniforms and security officers who are in the Security and Civil Protection bodies, either. Minister, the unemployed up to 12 months do not receive any allowance as vulnerable groups. Long-term unemployed more than twenty-four months receive no allowance. Workers in a series of enterprises such as miners and shipwreckers, as mentioned in the question, do not receive an allowance. The disabled who have not renewed the payment of their disability pension do not receive an allowance. Also, those who, for the first time, will pass through the CSR to receive a pension do not receive any benefits at this critical period. Moreover, who don't get an allowance? Entrepreneurs who have closed down their activities and who pay for e-Venezia as self-employed. Farm mothers of minors and professional mothers of minors, as well as mothers of children with disabilities, do not belong to any special measures. Businesses that the CARs have not joined the tourist regions affected, such as the minimarkets, are flying, get nothing. No meter. Farmers of the affected SARs likewise. They were also included in the Decision in CVT 26-3-2020 and were unduly removed to the next CVT on 16-4-2020, for example, 7022, referring to business advice and other management advice activities. The vulnerable groups, when the month is over, receive no allowance and no welfare. They're not getting anything. They'll be vulnerable groups, they'll stay home, because they're on the extras and they won't get anything. Finally, I refer to the collective agreements that have expired. We asked for a timely question and for the Ministry to take it into account last time. He didn't get it. The collective agreements have ended and nothing has been done and the workers at this difficult stage are ballast. To conclude by saying that we have also tabled two very specific proposals, which deal with the activation of jobs and the strengthening of employment, with employment subsidies and 40% of workers' wages in general and, of course, in the tourism sector. And I conclude, Madam Secretary, by saying that we have tabled a proposal to upgrade and unify social tourism programmes by extending the beneficiaries and subsidising their movements. For the redundancies that took place in the middle of a pandemic, we ask for immediate intervention from the Ministry. It's a trick for all of us. In the midst of a pandemic, the private sector has not made redundancies and there have been redundancies where? Helta and TRAINOSE.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Come on, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u68	Madam President, my dear colleague, many years. Happy birthday to everyone, health and strength, I wish in turn. I would like to say that my colleague asked more questions than he had already tabled. I have to be honest and say that there were already enough questions that were tabled, so I will ask for your flexibility and try to answer what I can. As you already know, the government has moved fast, decisive, serious and responsible from the very beginning. Our aim is to prevent the consequences of the pandemic and to protect both workers and the labour market. The course of the pandemic in Greece to date, I think, is justified by the actions and initiatives taken by our government. We intervene overall - and always within the framework of our budgetary possibilities - on the question of workers in a genuine and effective way. I now come to the essence of the questions you have put to me, which are too much in contrast to the time that I have. And here I say again that the President-in-Office must admit that he is serious and responsible, but also, when needed, flexible. I begin with your first question with some of the sub-projects that it contains, while holding back for the rest and the second question in my second question. So you ask whether a number of categories of professionals will be included in the support measures. I can tell you that we are constantly adding the list of beneficiaries of EUR 800 and, by extension, of all the benefits provided for by the relevant legislative acts and the implementing decisions. To give a recent example, on April 21st, sixty thousand new beneficiaries were added. These include actors, musicians, but also employees of the tourist and food industry. We are now going to the next category of professionals, namely those who have shut down their activities by a government decision. You ask what care we have taken on the obligation to pay their own insurance contributions to e - ECA non-employed persons. According to the CSR of 26 March, as in the case of enterprises or employers, the current insurance contributions for a period of February and March 2020 are to be suspended. In particular, for the period up to the prohibition of operating undertakings or until the suspension of contracts of employment under the MSF of 20/3, insurance contributions may be paid up to 30/9 or 31 October, depending on when they were due. These measures relate to enterprises or employers employing employees in relation to private employment, regardless of how they pay, their contract of employment or their type of employment, which are paid wages or wages. A prerequisite for this arrangement is the SMR of the undertaking. In other words, Mr CAR must be in the so-called affected, or the secondary CAR must have payments greater than those of the first. With regard to the free professions, self-employed persons and to those engaged in an occupation which, on the basis of population income criteria, falls under the former GAAP, provision is made for an extension of the payment of current insurance contributions and payments of active arrangements. In particular, for the months of February and March 2020, the payment and repayment of these contributions shall be extended to four equal monthly instalments, with the deadline for payment of the first instalment up to 30/9 of the current year. Protective is also the framework applicable to workers belonging to vulnerable groups, as these are specified by the EGE each time. And I want to stand on this. Already 12/3 of this year was issued by our Ministry. According to that circular, for workers belonging to vulnerable groups whose health status may be jeopardised by the pandemic, the employer must accept abstention from his work as soon as he is aware that the worker belongs to a vulnerable group. In this case, all provisions on distance work and special purpose leave shall apply. In any case - and I am closing here - the employer pays normal wages to the worker and cannot oblige him to receive his normal leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u69	Me too, Mrs. Undersecretary. Come on, Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u70	Madam Minister, as you know, the Change Movement does not close the measures. After all, many of the measures you have taken have also been proposals from the Change Movement. As far as you say, we do want you to continue to enrich. That was the question, so we suggest it. We don't say ours. We are telling what the groups say to us, the citizens who need to join because they are indeed in the vulnerable groups. That's what I'm talking about. They're not ours. That is the message that the government needs to obtain as a whole. They're not ours. And we wish that you continue to enrich the whole process. However, we are talking about three hundred thousand unemployed, Minister, who have not joined to date. They are the unemployed who have not received unemployment benefit for up to 12 months or if they have received, did not receive the months of December 2019 until March 2020 and cannot, like those who are made redundant from OAS programmes, benefiting from work, as well as the long-term over and twenty-four months. They don't, unfortunately. That's why we're asking to join. It is also these operations that I have told you, the miners and the shipowners who are in a difficult position, that are nowhere to join. We insist on the question of pensioners without a pension. One hundred and sixty thousand people are. It's a big problem. We cannot accept that it remains so and the government cannot see a question of these pensioners without a pension. In fact, too many of them have not even taken temporary. We refer, Minister, to the disabled who have not been retired. The government says nothing about them. Why doesn't he say anything? We are also talking about those who are waiting for the CEECs to be reopened, so that they can be examined and retired for the first time. You said, in fact, parole. There's a parole, it's a fact. But we're not talking about parole. The issue we are talking about here is for professionals who have closed up their activities by a government decision and are obliged to pay at the same time. They don't join vulnerable groups to get a compensation. They're staying out. There is a suspension of the obligation on e-Venezia self-employed persons, but at the same time they are in groups that the government has failed to comply with. Rural women and professional minor mothers are a major issue, which does not appear in any NSA until today. We have repeated this, nothing has happened to date. We're asking you to see this too. Also, we talked about the mini-markets in the tourist areas. What are they doing? Nothing, they stay that way. We've got a lot of others all right and not them. In what sense? It's specific. In tourist areas there are minimarkets or similar activities. I would like to refer to the businesses and free professionals, which, while they were included - I said this earlier in my prototype - to join the FEK 1043 on 26 March 2020, on 16 April 2020 with the FEK 1457, have responded. I'm going to testify the EKPs in the minutes of the House. Why should they be disfellowshipped? While they had joined the joint ministerial decision by Mr Brutsi, they replied to the next FEK. They stay out of these people and badly stay out. I would also like to refer, Minister, to those who were fired from 1 to 20 March. What about them? A lot has been said. To date, nothing has happened. And you know what? They have not collected anything because this category in the ERGAN system has not been foreseen until now. It is an issue that the Ministry needs to see and join. We are also talking about workers in social enterprises and workers' cooperatives, COMES, KOSIP and women's cooperatives. And they stay out. I'm talking to these people. Madam Minister, I do not know if the Ministry has taken note of this. Workers recruited by ‘CREWLINK’ who are engaged in the same duties and on the same aircraft as workers who have concluded contracts directly with ‘RYANAIR’, are included under the CAR in 0300. He's out. Why would these people be out? As to the vulnerable groups you mentioned, you are right. That's right. But in accordance with the Civil Code and the provisions you mentioned earlier - there is also a specific circular of the Ministry, and I am referring to Articles 657 and 658 of the Civil Code - when the month passes and these people do nothing at home, they do nothing and the employer is rightly and legitimately not giving them anything, while they were paid a salary for the month beforehand. What about them now? How will they join us? From now on, how will they be covered? Minister, it is very important and essential to see that these accusations are out of the question and there is a big problem. Finally, I am going to refer to the two categories, in addition to those which we ask you to include. I want to talk about collective agreements. There is a specific document from GFCM to the Ministry, there is also the amendment to how it can be done, because there are many non-processed workers who can no longer be the slaves of employers, both in wages and in everything. Legislation must be in place in order to suspend and extend the collective labour agreements which have expired in order to bring about legality and regularity. Finally, we are also denounced here today the redundancies made by both TRAINOSE and ELTA. The ELTAs were five hundred twenty workers under contract. The contract of four hundred and fifty of them was renewed and seventy workers were left out, in the midst of a pandemic! The employment contract for seventy-five employees was terminated in TRAINOSE. It is a company that obviously provides public service. The private sector is forbidden to make complaints of employment contracts. Why did they denounce their contracts of employment? In these cases, both for the collective labour contract and for TRAINOSE and for RYANAIR, I will submit to the minutes the relevant documents from both the GSEE and the Panhellenic Rail Federation. Madam Minister, I repeat that we have tabled concrete proposals because we are calling for subsidisation of work and not for unemployment to be subsidised. This is the major one and the government's policy must be reformed. We cannot continue to say that we are subsidising unemployment. We have to subsidise the work. And the concrete proposals that the Change Movement, targeted, very justified and costly, tabled and made public, must be taken into account immediately in order to keep society and the economy up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u71	Me too, Mr. Comrade. I will have the same tolerance as the Minister, so that he has the same time to answer. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is the last time that we have been so much over our time. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much. A lot of questions again. I will try to respond to as many as I can and thankfully Parliament is here to testify more and to be here again to respond. Some issues I would like to raise, because I think it is important that they be said not only at the National Representation, but also at those of our fellow citizens at the moment or in retrospectively. With regard to the award of outstanding pensions, I would like to say the following. It is an absolute priority of the Ministry of Labour to award outstanding pensions, because we understand that this is a problem which is a time-lag and must be dealt with immediately, even within the pandemic. The Minister, Mr. Brutsis, made a big announcement that June 1st, the award of one third of all pensions automatically through e-ECA, begins. Who are they? They are mostly widowing pensions and many of the OGA pensions. What does that mean? That 1/3 which will be given automatically from now on will release the hands of the workers of the ECA so that they can finally process the outstanding pensions. So, as of June 1st, the ECA staff will be developed and will be able to work much better on outstanding pensions and start dynamically to solve the problem of many years. On the list of firms affected, as the Minister said before, the situation is not static. I hear and listen with good intention, and I understand your point about workers in a mini-market in tourist areas. There are tourist areas especially on islands, for example, in the Ionian Sea, in the southern Aegean, where most of their economic activity is from tourism. So we hear it. This list is a list that is expanded almost daily. I carry it, too, and we look at how we go. The issue with regard to the CSDP committees and the award of pensions - either pensions or allowances - to our people with disabilities, will be taken if you want my part of social policy in particular. There are two things there. The first is the automatic extension that we made of those who needed to go through CSR committees so that they can continue to receive disability pensions and allowances. What were we doing there? We have legislated by legislative act that, for those who had to pass, their allowance or pension is automatically extended, because we understand that the conditions are different and we do not need to force them. The second part, which you have raised and which is equally important, is what is going to happen with those who would now go through, namely those who do not receive an invalidity allowance or a disability pension, but who have or have a disability in them and have to take it. Because health conditions do not allow a CSR committee to become and there is any co-ordination of the world, what is being done is to operate an electronic protocol on their applications, so they do not lose their turn and they will take the money - the allowance or pension - retroactively. We recognize that they need this money, but on the other hand we do what we can. I tried and answered the disability section. I'll come to the second question you've tabled. As regards the first part, I would remind you of Law No. 1876 of 1990, as is the case, that collective agreements are binding on workers and employers who are members of the trade unions or trade unions in their local, professional and time fields. If a contract is generally declared compulsory, by decision of the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, then it also applies to employers and employees who are not members of the contracting organisations, but fall within the scope of force. Finally, since the employer is bound by an operational collective agreement, its regulatory conditions apply also to the employment relations of all workers employed by that employer. What is the situation today? I'm going to submit the relevant data. Currently, thirty-one collective labour agreements are in force for national or local purposes, of which a general collective labour agreement, sixteen sectoral, thirteen homogeneous. Four of them have been extended for three months and six have been declared compulsory. In addition, four hundred collective bargaining contracts are in force, of which forty-three are in prolongation. To facilitate access to the analytical table with the collective arrangements currently in force on 28/4. It is self-evident, but I would like to stress again that the conditions of the current collective arrangements are being applied outright. Finally, with regard to the social tourism programme for the period 2019 and 2020, by decision of the OAED Commander on 6 April, the number of thirteen thousand rightholders and beneficiaries who had not been used was extended. That extension is valid for a period of equal duration with the duration of the restrictive measures. At the same time, it has already been issued with relevant CRLs and the 2020-2021 programme specifying the beneficiaries and beneficiaries of the grant as well as the cost of the subsidy, and soon the issue and the relevant public invitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u73	If I may, Madam President, for a moment I would like to say something to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u74	If the Minister allows you, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u75	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u76	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, I am talking about the collective agreements which have resolved their strength but ended in the quarter. So there's nothing. There's no protection. There's no collective agreement. That's what I'm talking about, Minister. The Ministry knows them. The GSC has sent a memorandum on this. I filed it in the Minutes. That's the point. The other things, indeed, are what you say. But for those who have expired and the quarter of the extension there is nothing. They're ballast. I would ask the Ministry to see this even retrospectively. That was the point of the question. They're losing rights. You all understand that. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-29-S1-commons.u79	With the consent of the House at 12.07 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 30 April 2020 at 10: 00, on the subject of Parliament's work: debate, at the request of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in accordance with Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
