ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with Parliament's 24-9-2020 authorisation, the Minutes of Thursday 24 September 2020 were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau of the Senate with regard to the adoption of all draft laws: 1) ‘Definition of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Commercial Shipping of 6 December 2001’, 2) ‘Decision of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Israel on Maritime Transport’ and 3) ‘Strengthening the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction and Energy of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and Water Management of the Republic of Albania on cooperation in agriculture’.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 28 September 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 1043/16-9-2020 is a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Ragossis to the Minister of State, on the subject: "Reimbursement of responsibilities now for the new case of government incompetence and the destruction of public money for the useless masks" in schools. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 1050/21-9-2020 by MEP Larisi of the Change Movement Mr. Evangelias Ligoulis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: 'Direct aid for the Municipality of Thessaly affected by 'January''. 3. The Question No 1063/21-9-2020 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Emergent need to staff the General Hospital of Rhodes". 4. Under number 1044/17-9-2020, a topical question by MP I East Attica of Mera25 Mrs Maria Apatzidis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Direct rehabilitation of the unjusted/invasive teachers". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "The need for immediate assistance from the Municipal Waste Water Corporation (JHA) in Heraklion with permanent staff". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 1064/21-9-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The serious subsidization of the General Hospital of Rethymno Crete". 3. Question No 1054/21-9-2020 by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arseni, Minister for Health, on the subject: "Attica: Stop converting the reference hospitals to the virus's dispersion centers!" 4. The question asked by MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Syria Malama to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: "People in Sithonia and Olympiads feel impeccable after the last floods." 5. The question by No 1065/21-9-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The tragic situation created during the third year of application of the two-year compulsory school at nursery school." 6. Under number 1055/21-9-2020, a topical question by MP B2' West Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Essay to the Garden of Dimodus means exclusion from the inhabitants of Western Athens in green, recreation and clean air". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question raised by Mr Georgios Psychogios, Member of Parliament of the Radical Left, Mr Georgios Psychogios, Minister for the Interior, on the subject: ‘Extremely urgently, the anti-military shield in the areas of Athinia, Alamanos and Agios Ioannis affected by the fire of 22 July 2020’. 8. Under number 1058/21-9-2020, a topical question by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Koronoise impact in the 2nd Petroupoli High School: The government oligopoly leads to social unrest". 9. The question under number 1062/21-9-2020 by MP B3' South Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Moussala, Minister for Migration and Asylum, on the subject: 'Misalflorous proposals for the creation of closed structures for immigrants, refugees and asylum seekers on landslides'. 10. Under number 1057/21-9-2020, a topical question by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Prohibition of concerts, continuation of the theatrical performances: Repression of the new government's choices for krone". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Magnesia of the Radical Left Coalition Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Health, entitled "The need for a direct supply of molecular analyst for SARS - COV2 at Achilolio Volos Hospital". 3. - The question by Mr Kegeroglou, Member of the Commission. — (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Kegeroglou, on his excellent report. Before entering the debate on the topical and urgent questions, I have the honour of making two announcements. The first announcement is from the ESDC and civil protection unit. It concerns the exercise of the TEC "ALEXANDROS 20", with reference to number F. 371/45/175312S.2020/23-9-2020 document of the Ministry of National Defence. ‘Honourable Mr General, We inform you that, in the context of the exercise of the TAF, ‘ALEXANDROS 20’, on Tuesday 29 September 2020, a test will be carried out for all the civil defence sirens throughout the territory as follows: Local time 11.00 air strike alarm signal for a period of sixty (60) seconds (auducible sound of a different intensity). Local time 11: 05 alarm termination marking, duration (60) seconds (continuous sound constant intensity). Please let the President of Parliament be informed and the Greek Parliament will then be consulted." We read this so no one will be afraid on Tuesday that we will have the sirens. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers of National Defence, Finance, Foreign Affairs and Justice tabled a draft law on 24-9-2020: "Following the Agreement on Acquisition and Mutual Service (Application) between the Ministry of Defence of the United States, represented by the Department of Defence of the Administrative Care and Energy and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic represented by the Hellenic Air Force on Reciprocal Fuel Supply". The Ministers of National Defence, Finance, Foreign Affairs, Justice and Maritime Affairs and Island Policy submitted on 24-9-2020 a draft law on "Standarding the Agreement on Acquisition and Mutual Service (Application) between the United States Department of Defence represented by the Department of Defence Management - Energy and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic represented by the Hellenic Navy on Fuel Conservation." They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. These will be discussed in committee and in plenary, if I remember well, next week. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House in writing: ‘We hereby inform you of the topical and urgent questions under parliamentary scrutiny on Friday 25 September 2020 that the current questions to be debated are as follows: No. No. Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy under Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The numbers. 1049/20-9-2020 and 1069/21-9-2020 topical questions will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection Mr Nikolaos Chardalia. The numbers. 1052/21-9-2020, 1053/21-9-2020, 1067/21-9-2020 and 1061/21-9-2020 No. No. 2226/10-7-2020 question (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Please, as you take the appropriate steps to inform both the President-in-Office and the honourable Members of the proceedings.' The procedure we are going to follow today is as follows. We will discuss the first of the eight scheduled questions, stop to hold the question and come back shortly after the debate of the last two topical questions by Mr Ioannis Ragosi and Mr Giorgos Kaminis to the Minister for Civil Protection, to which the Deputy Minister will reply. The third question, then, under number 1053/21-9-2020, will be discussed in the first cycle of the Piraeus II-Piraeus, Mr. Fotinis Bakadam to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Reports on medieval working conditions at the Yava Fitness Centers'. The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Mrs Bakadama, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, after we welcome you, I would like to thank you for being here today to discuss the serious complaints that have come to our knowledge and not only to us, they have also seen the light of publicity. Unfortunately, the coronary pandemic has become an opportunity for many employers to exploit the new conditions to gain even more. So, we have seen the last period lighting up many cases of occupational immunity. One of these is the case of Yava, the Yava Fitness Centers, a multi-advertised and large group which, according to employees, has imposed medieval working conditions. But let us look at the prevailing situation, the situation that exists and exists behind advertising and all the successful marketing. Employee complaints concern mainly unpaid work, racist behaviours and threats. Many workers denounce that unpaid work with several months' paid wages is now a status, such as blocking workers with employers, extortion threats of exclusion by banning work in any gym in the chain, if a worker says he will even move legally to claim his rights. The delay in the payment of accrued earnings has increased even further in recent years. Late that in the event of dismissal or resignation it will step up economic strangulation and the insecurity of the person who decides to leave, since the most likely is to lose the money that he has to pay, because it is highly unlikely that the status of employment contracts will be completely unknown - I will need three seconds, Mr President - and if they indeed reflect the agreed wages that will ultimately remain part of an oral agreement. At the top of the group's work arbitrariness, it is the conclusion of an agreement with private IEK for a practical exercise, resulting in potential coaches and trainers working without being paid. At the same time, there is a common secret about the extermination of working rates and the ruthless working conditions accompanied by pitiful, hard work and working time, wages and wages, while there is no shortage of the phenomenon - it is extremely common - trying to create a kind of internal competition between workers, giving poor and minimal bonuses to anyone who manages to sell more packages and more contracts. Many times racist comments are made on non-Greek workers. The questions I ask you on this subject, Mr Minister, are as follows: Firstly, if they have come to your knowledge, if you are aware of all these complaints that reflect the ruthless working conditions and the volatile ergonomie of the group. Secondly, what initiatives directly to monitor the conditions and contracts of work, but also to combat the unpaid work you intend to take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, knowing the conditions prevailing in the labour market, which have even deteriorated because of the pandemic, is taking action to ensure the rights of workers in every sector of the economy. Practicals and phenomena such as those described in Mrs Bakadima's question are absolutely condemnable and their fight is a priority of the Ministry. The Ministry has an overall picture of the case mentioned both at the level of labour legislation and at the level of liabilities to the insurance funds. According to the information from the Labour Inspectorate, the APRC, with regard to the company being discussed, this year, and until a month ago, a total of twenty complaints and applications have been filed for a discussion of labour disputes with the following subjects: the debt of monthly remuneration, the debt of work on Sunday or holidays, the debt of overtime work, a complaint of a contract without notification and without compensation, a gift of holidays and a licence allowance, compensation of unpaid leave, no dismissal of the company's business. A total of eight on-the-spot checks have been carried out, following complaints of accrued earnings. Four of them followed the payment of the sums due to employees. A check is still under way. In one case an administrative fine of EUR 3,000 was imposed for not presenting the company's data. In addition, no infringements were detected, while another company was found to be closed because of the restrictions imposed on the fight against the dispersion of COVID -19. It is also noted that two instances of complaints were simply dealt with by telephone intervention of the labour inspectors, in which a direct payment of the sums due was made, totalling EUR 2.160. At the same time, in 2020, I mentioned earlier, the labour relations inspections carried out eleven audits, mainly involving the payment of accrued earnings, while one more was cancelled as a result of the non-participation of the two parties. From the discussions held, the three were resolved by the payment of the sums due totalling EUR 16,309,081. Four work differences remain in progress, while in four cases a reference was filed to the prosecutor. Moreover, it is scheduled for the end of September, that is, this month, the debate on two additional labour disputes. In any case, the presence of Labour Relations Inspectors in the workplaces of workers, including in the gym service sector, remains noticeable. In particular, in the context of dealing with exceptional labour market conditions due to COVID -19, the APRC adapts its actions and intensifys its interventions, focusing particular attention on control and treatment of undeclared work, namely exactly what you refer to in your question, with a view to maintaining healthy working relations. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] My time's up. In my dentistry, I shall also deal in detail with insurance issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u5	Thank you. Mrs Bakadima has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, thank you for the clarifications. First of all, I would like to make a very brief comment: today's question does not involve any sense of opposition. You understand that. I think it's understandable. It was just something I wanted to put in your knowledge. Thank you for all the information and clarifications. You will allow me to reintroduce a few aspects of this issue, just because perhaps the Ministry does not even know it, and it would be good to know about aspects that have not yet come to the surface. You mentioned the black paper already. You know that. Of course, all the contracts that are done in this way are agreements under the table. The worker under pressure of unemployment agrees to agree. It seems that he legally gets a very small amount and the rest are given under the table. So when someone leaves or leaves because they are not paid - we have cases of people who have been unpaid since last January, long before the pandemic begins - he cannot claim the legal money they owe him, because in his contract he seems to get one third of what he has agreed to take. Secondly, much of the workers, especially trainers in the group, are currently alleged to be on parole. However, they normally work with the firm to pay the employee only the difference between EUR 534 and the agreed remuneration. So, no doubt the Greek state is also leaving because it is called upon to pay support benefits in the midst of a pandemic to practical workers. Thirdly, blackmail is continuous and the threat of a ban on labour in the group remains always on the table. I shall mention a simple example: let us say that a gymnast refuses to accept and give him a few hours of group programs in two, three different gymnasiums in the group and does not accept, because he is far from home, because he has no way to go. Then, most likely, they'll say to him: "Thank you. We won't use you at all. You won't work for us for quite a long time." Of course, the same ban goes into the table and in the context of the debate if anyone says they will claim the dues. Fourthly, it is often the racist and degrading remarks made to workers, mainly cleaners who are not Greeks, and we had complaints that several gymnastics of the group do some kind - let me - 'face control', so that their customers can only be Greek. Minister, I think we can agree that we should not give any room for business, especially during the pandemic period, to deceive the state by declaring a fake picture, but also to exploit workers. In conclusion, I would like to note that today is only the beginning. In the next few days I will continue to ask with updated information to you and the Treasury, while submitting to you and making written complaints of workers who have left the group. They haven't applied to the APRC yet. But I will have the papers at my disposal and I will submit them for your information and to see how we can now break a time-consuming abscess. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Chacloglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Bakandima, because in your question you are referring to insurance, which is the part I am leading the Ministry of Labour, I would like to say that as far as the debts to the insurance funds are concerned the Ministry of Labour is aware that gyms under the name 'Yava' have been operating in the last few years under different company shapes. However, in whatever shape they have worked, they seem to have created huge dues from non-payment of insurance contributions. Although it has done several times - the latter was based on Law 4611/2019 for the hundred and twenty instalments in August 2019 - they have not paid the scheduled instalments for several months. According to CRL data, there are forty-three companies operating from 2015 to 2017 under the ‘Yava’ brand name with a total debt of EUR 3,6 million to EVA. The necessary recovery measures taken, i.e. seizures of bank accounts and real estate for these companies, did not, on the one hand, depend on the fact that legal persons did not have any assets and transactions with customers appear to be under the table, which you also insinuated in your question. In addition, natural persons responsible for the debts had no economic surface. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Labour respects and applies the legal framework governing labour disputes in an absolute and unequivocal manner. The grid of the devices shall be complete and specify accurately the possibilities of protecting and safeguarding the workers of any form. A unilateral change in the terms of contracts which harm the staff member shall be regarded as a complaint. That's automatic. So that covers the cases that you mentioned before. And according to the caselaw of the highest courts, the delay in payment of remuneration constitutes a unilaterally harmful change in the terms of a contract of employment when it comes from an employer's mistrust or is made by a fraudulent option to force the worker to withdraw so that he does not receive the compensation which he normally is entitled to. In the event of a harmful unilateral change in working conditions by the employer, the worker has potential. What are these possibilities? The first is to accept the unilateral contract, so the story ends there. The two others, however, are: The first to demand that the employer continue to comply with the same conditions and continue to offer his work in accordance with them, so if the employer fails to accept it in the way he is being offered, he is automatically in pride and owes his agreed employee's wages not having the obligation to provide him with work at another time. The third is to consider the change as a complaint of the employment contract on the part of the employer and to withdraw from his employment, while claiming his legal allowance. I would also like to point out that forcing the worker on voluntary leave is tantamount to dismissal - it is well known in labour legislation - which is void if it was not made in writing and legal compensation has not been paid. The employer's behaviour insults the worker's personality and, moreover, in this case also has the right to compensation for moral harm. In conclusion, I would like to assure you that the Greek state is a European rule of law, it shows due responsibility and through the control mechanisms and justice it is trying to break down any phenomenon of circumvention of the labour and insurance legislation which insults the workers' labour and insurance rights and deprives resources of the insurance system. I would also like to stress another point to which you have not mentioned and which is very important for all cases of infringement. We are not only doing this for reasons of social justice. We are doing so for the sake of economic efficiency. If, in any industry, we have both infringing and non-infringing undertakings, the infringements will soon gain a cost advantage and bring the healthy business out of competition. That is the last thing we do not want and we certainly won't let that happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u9	Thank you. We move on to the first under number 1052/21-9-2020 on a topical question by the Member of Parliament for Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "An unanswered questions about the outstanding pensions of EFKA". Mr Mulkiotis, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, according to a statement - a complaint I would say - of the State Budget Office in Parliament on 15-9-2020, the 2020 Second Quarter Report contains no elements of outstanding applications for retirement and their estimated expenditure as it had to give to the Office. This was for the first time under the responsibility of the administration of the EPC, which, despite repeated requests from the Parliament's Budget Office to the relevant departments, but also from the commander of the EPC himself, refused to send the particulars, as they had been created by the end of June 2020, but did not provide any explanation. Following the announcement issued by Parliament's Budget Office and due to the publication of this issue, the EPC gave an answer on 15 September to justify what? In our view, Minister, the unjustified. The behaviour of the FBI administration in this matter is an institutional handicap. It is a serious predicament and it is absolutely impossible not to know the political leadership of the Ministry and the Minister personally. The same elements of the outstanding and late retirements, Mr Minister, demonstrate the inability today of the administration of the EPC to deal with the problems that are present and certainly exacerbate the insecurity of the insured, the pensioners and, more generally, the insecurity that is being distributed to society. At the same time, there is an issue on the available resources of the EMRP, which seems to have been drastically reduced, and there are negative consequences for the insurance system as well as the measures that are rather fragmentary and not specific and certainly stable and create issues both by deregulation of the labour market and by reducing working time and pay and insurance contributions. Both questions, Mr President, to the Minister are: This refusal by the administration of the ECA was, in fact, in the knowledge of the government's political leadership and was adopted by the Ministry's political leadership, or was it an arbitrary action by the administration of the ECA and the services of the ECA toward an institution and to the Parliament of the Greeks? What happened to you, how do you judge it and what measures did you take if you have taken it? Secondly, what are they today, Minister, why has it never been known - the outstanding pension applications for the main and supplementary pensions? And how many of them are due? And finally, what is the course of ECA’s reserves and cash? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Here, Mr Tsakloglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. Mulkiotis. On the request of the Parliamentary Budget Office for the provision of pending pension data, the commander of the EPC has replied with his letter of 15 September, to which you referred and which I would like to present. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr Mulkiotis, I do not think it was something that either proves to the House or anything like that. Do not forget, after the letter of the commander of EKKA, the President of the Scientific Council of Parliament, Mr Kotedakis, sent a letter stating that he had good cooperation all these years here and I think it was something that was transient. Now, let me get to the bottom of your question. According to the EPC services data, overdue main pension applications at 30-6-2020 were a hundred seventeen thousand eight hundred seventy-seven six, while overdue supplementary pension applications were fifty-seven thousand one. I am referring to applications that are made after the main pension decision has been made. In fact, however, this should take into account the remark in the letter from the commander of the ETUC that many of them have been submitted both by post and by electronic means. There is no complete record of both so that the set-off can take place, so the figures I have told you are probably the highest. By the end of this month there will be the exact numbers. The launch of the pilot implementation of the ‘ATLAS’ system, namely the one I referred to earlier, and the simultaneous electronic submission of applications for retirement in the second quarter of 2020, was a very positive development and should, in theory, facilitate and accelerate the process of registering and processing pension applications. At the same time we had COVID -19 and so on, so there were many people who feared and made the application electronically and sent it to the post office and that is what we need to clear up now, so that there is a need for a cross-border procedure to identify the applications that have been submitted twice. With regard to the perimeter of outstanding pensions, the figures mentioned relate to overdue pensions, as we agree with them - for example - with the troika, the institutions, with the exception of inflexibility and international pensions, as measured and reported in all official reports. Of course, what I said in the rest is things that are not the responsibility of the EPCA, that is, there are some facts missing or anything like that. With regard to the financial situation of the ECA, to which you referred, it remains strong despite the turbulence caused by the health crisis due to the sound and adequate budget assistance through economic, employees and insured persons, in particular the contribution payments programmes on behalf of the state-insurance holders. I'll be more specific. According to the social budget figures, the amount of the EKKA reserves was set at EUR 9,52 billion in August 2020 from 10,64 billion at the beginning of the year, i.e. January before the pandemic. Since April 2020, when the economic support measures have been put in place, the ECA reserves have remained almost stable. In fact, 23 million euros have been reduced, i.e. less than 0.25% of the reserves, and this is much less than a normal fluctuation in the ECA reserves. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u13	Here, Mr Mulkiotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am going to be sad at you in this sense: I believe that this is an attitude of the EPC to the Budget Office of the State in Parliament. And you know why? Unfortunately, the answer was given when the information was made public. So why didn't they get so many contacts from the Budget Office to the agencies and to the governor himself and for so long? And why, in any case, did it not give a simple explanation, which it has actually given - we have seen, why has it been published - retrospectively and there have been these reports? Minister, I think that it was at least unmanageable. And I do not want to continue this debate because it is inconsistent with a proper and rational procedure and management in the Greek Parliament. I will, however, submit the press release of the State Budget Office in Parliament dated 15-9-20, which gives clear answers and which has provided the data. They say, Minister, 'After our repeated demands...' - not one! - "...to the competent authorities and then to the commander of EKKA, we did not receive the particulars, as they formed at the end of June 2020. Following the publication of the report, we received a reply from the EMCDDA invoking technical problems in the provision of the data and committed to restoring their flow.’ ‘The State Budget Office in Parliament wishes to continue its cooperation with the EPC beforehand and to provide information directly linked to the monitoring of the budgetary figures of the General Government. We have never met a similar problem in the past from the public services and institutions that we are working together and provide us with the information we need without delay. The State Budget Office in Parliament will defend the institutional role and the absolute observance of Article 28 of Law 4270/2014, which states explicitly that “all General Government bodies are required to provide the State Budget Office with any information it deems necessary to carry out its work”. The State Budget Office in Parliament invokes this article. And to invoke it, Minister, you understand, with your political and academic capacity, that it means too much. I'm filing it in the Minutes of the House. [[At this point, the Member, George Mulkiotis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Furthermore, we reserve the right to hear and to find out the facts that the ECA will actually give, after having settled all the process that it says is still pending, because of the well-known pandemic. But, Minister, I will refer to the Executive Director of the ESM, Klaus Regling, who, as mentioned and made public on the CNN's electronic page, says: 'We are particularly concerned about the steady increase in outstanding pensions. If the trend continues, the commitment to the full liquidation of the outstanding pensions until mid-2021 may not be achieved’. And the comment says that with this phrase, the executive director, Klaus Regling, warned about the budget bomb of unfinished pensions that have not been paid by the FBI. This is in CNN Greece, online version. Is it of such importance and nature that it was not considered necessary for the ECA or the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to give an answer? Finally, Minister, it seems that insurance reform was not an insurance reform. The law applicable to the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government, the Katorugalou law, is still intact. This is also mentioned in the European Commission's report in September 2020, which I will also present to the House, and which specifically refers to it. I am saying this, and I would point out that, in order to give this dimension, which has not been made public and specifically mentioned on pages 49 and 50. It has been carefully translated and I think it is, that is, that the data of the insurance system remain intact to date. So we're not talking about insurance reform. We are talking about the continuation of a situation which is given that it has caused problems, but which continues to be at the expense of pensioners, who have suffered multiple issues and issues. Mr President, I am tabling the document I have before me. [[At this point, the Member, George Mulkiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u15	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Mulkiotis, there was obviously no intention of the EPC's budget office being paid back, and I do not think that is something that will not be repeated. I would like to refer a little to the substance of your question, because your question was a matter of outstanding pensions and about what we are doing to solve this problem, which is a problem that has been arousing the pensions area for many years now. Obviously, the picture of the accumulation of outstanding pensions that prolong the suffering of pensioners and insured persons is not at all pleasant for us, neither for EVA nor for the citizens. But that is what we are determined to deal with in a radical way and to eliminate this vulnerability of our insurance system. In fact, I would like to thank you for your question, because you are giving me the opportunity to inform Parliament of the great progress that has been made in this area over the last few months, progress which unfortunately has not yet been recorded in figures, but we believe that in the next few months it will be absolutely visible. In this country we can count, remeasure, correct, recalculate economic sizes and ultimately treat their measurements with suspicion. But, to be honest, what eventually counts is the reforms that are being promoted to solve the problems that are going on and not the skeletons in the wardrobes or the lost bags with outstanding pensions. In this area, the present Government has taken very important steps to promote the digital award of pensions through the ‘ATLAS’ system. This is a fully automated process at all stages, both in the application phase and in the processing, publication phases and, finally, in the notification of the pension decision to the beneficiary. In the context of the reform of the digital pension “ATLAS”, we are moving towards the final resolution of the problem of outstanding pensions, using the new technologies of the “ATLAS” Platform that transforms the process of awarding pensions into a simple electronic process, and we are, firstly, achieving the exemption of the insured person from the role of an informal judge who goes to collect the multitude of documents, as these are now electronically derived through the interconnection of the EKA with the bodies issuing these certificates and, secondly, the conversion of a multi-month procedure into a trade of a few minutes for the insured. In spite of adverse conditions of the health crisis, the operating schedules of the ‘ATLAS’ system are normally implemented. Last April, the pilot implementation of the scheme for two categories of pensions began. It is first of all a question of awarding the pensions of the former OGA, provided that there is no parallel or successive insurance to another fund and, secondly, for widow's pensions from death. These are about 30% of pensions. That is now about automatically awarding. As of 15 April, the EFCA's electronic service also began to accept the first electronic applications of the insured. On 23 July, following exhaustive checks, the digital pension system has been put into operation - I am referring to these two categories that I have said before - and they will gradually be incorporated into the 'ATLAS' system and new categories of pension decisions. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] By the end of 2020, all disability pensions that are a very big problem - and you know that - will have been included in this - with the aim of producing the corresponding awards from March 2021, while what we hope is that the rest of the old age pension categories will have been included at the end of next year. In other words, we hope that at the end of 2021, about 80% to 85% of pensions will be awarded electronically, what I said before. Mr Mulkiotis, what I would like to say is that we are moving forward, we are solving years of problems, we are innovative, we are modernising and we are digitising public administration for the benefit of citizens, productivity and the economy not only in my Ministry, but in all the ministries. In particular, however, for the EMCDDA, to which your question obviously refers, we are moving carefully in the same way as in the entire range of public administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too. Now, the two following questions, namely Questions Nos 1067/21-9-2020 and 1068/21/9/2020 of the Herculus Movement of Change Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, which are relevant, will be discussed at the same time, without affecting the rights of speakers in terms of their speaking time in application of the provision in paragraph 4 of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure. We move on to the second debate under No 1067/21-9-2020 on the second question of the second question of the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "The need to improve the legislative framework of the single wage earners (formerly IKA - ETAM), in order to protect the insurance and labour rights of those paid with it. At the same time, the third question will be discussed under number 1068/21-9-2020 in the second cycle of the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr.Kosos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The need to improve the legislative framework of the single farmer of land former GAAP, in order to protect and strengthen their insurance and labour rights". Mr Tsakloglu, the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, will answer. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, from the outset, I've been presenting my thoughts and the purpose of the questions. My aim is to create a process which will enhance the institution of the bachelor as a tool for simplified taking up work and for the production and, more generally, for the work provided for by the law, while at the same time guaranteeing workers' working, insurance and pension rights. That's my purpose. The mistress, as you know, was established by Law 3863/2010 and since then it has worked effectively in many cases. At the same time, however, his problems also emerged. Direct use tool, but with a lot of gaps. Following the reform - within or outside of the import - of the Katorugalo Law 4387, new problems have arisen and the legislative intervention of the current government has unfortunately not solved them. Ministerial decisions to be adopted are pending. And I come to the heart of the problems. As far as IKA is concerned, there is a problem with the safe attestation, with the certain date and time of taking up and ending work. And this has to do with any accidents that may occur, if this is not guaranteed in advance. The second point is that the rights to the Christmas gift and the Easter gift are not guaranteed in the private sector - when we use a bachelor, that is not guaranteed - and there are, of course, issues relating to their calculation and integration into the system, that is to say, the insurance and pension rights within the worker's insurance life. With regard to the OGA mistress, the problems are more, because there is no need to adjust procedure, so that today, following the legislative intervention of yours, which included the calculation based on the years 2017, 2018 and 2019 that changes the system and establishes six insurance categories for the insured of the agricultural sector, the mistress is synchronised with the six new classes. So there is a need for regulation on one and the other and for the other and for the upgrading of the bachelor, his association, so that, at the time of the issue, a herald automatically is automatically issued, the system and the "ERGANI" and the work insurance system are updated, how much the percentages that go for the benefit of the EFCA are, how much are they going in favour of EFCA, what is the gift, what is the licence. That can be done. But you must initiate the procedure, which I can surely say has not been initiated for many years since at least 2016. We have issues and I mention them, so that we then have the opportunity to discuss them. For the OGA's insured professional farmer, but also for a professional who is a plumber or who has another capacity, who will want to make a cut in the agricultural sector, there is unfortunately no possibility that the amount corresponding to the insurance of the bachelor who will make it a farm worker will be offset by the fixed contribution as an insured of the OGA. If he has chosen, for example, the second category, the EUR 124, whatever he does as a farmer, who has an insurance contribution, they will be offset by the amount that he is obliged to make as a monthly contribution. Same for the professional as I told you. Same as a IKA insurer who wants to work as a farmer. This is coupled with the problem of the period. We have a problem with the workers' hands. You know that there is a great need mainly during the harvest period, because the issue of the growing season one way or another is regulated. There was a proper government regulation which applied until June, 30 June, and solved the problem for certain products. It has certainly not been combined - and we must take care of that - with measures to tackle the pandemic. The right health checks were not carried out and there was an outbreak in northern Greece. However, there seems to be a need to extend the possibility and not to apply the upper ceiling declared by the regions. Under other circumstances, the Region of Crete, for example, stated that they need fifty farmers for all of Crete. That does not exist, it does not now. Now this needs to be released for, for example, the oil collection which will start in October to January. There is therefore a need to upgrade and upgrade the overall intervention for herding and measures to facilitate farmers from relocation safely and in compliance with the rules on COVID -19, so that we can have - for olive cultivation - the necessary workforce for olive oil collection. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Chacloglu, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Indeed, many of the findings are as Mr Kegeroglu said and we are working in this direction. I'll be detailed below. I shall, however, start with a few comments on the more general issues of the building, before going on to the more specific ones. Bachelor is a form of quasi-project contract, not work. Let's be clear about this. So he was in his arrest from the beginning, and that's how it has to be. It was established in order to provide a way out of the cases where we had almost universal undeclared work, i.e. essentially black work. We are talking about cases with particular employment features, such as periodicity, unstable working hours, the fact that the employer is usually, almost exclusively natural. So, to cover all these cases, there had to be an easy-to-use tool that created strong incentives for its use and was very well created in 2010, as mentioned earlier. However, since its introduction the legal framework for the construction was built to take different and specific forms of work. As Mr Kegeroglu has said, he is neither a purely paid employee nor a free profession, which is why he has fundamentally different characteristics. I refer to the main differences in the amount and type of contributions, the rights resulting from them, the obligation to register workers and employers. On the other hand, you are well aware, Mr Kegeroglu, both from your term of office in the Ministry of Labour and from your term of office in Parliament, that although it was a very important change in the construction of the works, it was neither perfect nor complete. We cannot, for example, talk about the insurance of casual workers, such as the relevant Article 22 of Law 3863/2010, to which you referred, without a specific delimitation of what it means to casual workers. This caused significant problems. The most important was the pressure for continuous inclusion of new categories in the remuneration and insurance via a charter. What does that mean? In practice, there is pressure to replace the normal wage earner with work paid by a bachelor. However, our main concern as a Ministry is to strengthen permanent and full-time employment rather than those forms of employment by limiting the use of these alternative forms of employment only for categories of workers who really need to be integrated into them for specific and specific reasons. About the same is true of the bacheloring of land workers. First of all, this is a category of workers with too many particular features - you have also referred to them - and also to the monitoring and recording of employment, but also to the fact that we often have to do with foreign workers who are mainly interested in the necessary skills for their health coverage. Our response to the issues of the ergonomie, both to the former workers of IKA and to the workers of land, is essentially the implementation of 'ERGANI II', with which we are now moving towards the complete digital display of working time and the full monitoring of all forms of employment. In fact this is an answer to Mr Kegeroglou's second question. And I would say that this Ministerial Decision will be adopted after the completion and resolution of 'ERGANI II' - it makes no sense - which I am going to mention in detail in my denunciation and, in fact, is the answer to the problems you have rightly raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Change Movement and I personally exercise institutional opposition, creative and in this direction we want you to respond. It is good that there is thought and perhaps initiatives to work in this direction to upgrade the bachelor, but we must define the rules. In 2010, the landscape was different in terms of insurers. There were still a hundred and fifty insurers in our country. Now we have an insurance body. We support the fact that the major mistake made with the FBI was that there was no unification of systems in the first place. Already with our previous question, which we discussed here, we agreed that there would be no difference in the ECA's benefit table depending on the colour or the football team. It's unacceptable. And I mean by different criteria, apart from insurance, because today he's an FBI insured person. So the mistress today should be upgraded and not be a different form of work. We're not looking for any other type of worker. No, we don't suggest that. The worker either in a classic service which, until now, was considered to be an insurer in IKA, or in a service, at work, at work, in agricultural production, should have the same insurance rights in general. So, in the private sector, I'm sorry, has the Easter gift and the licence allowance been paid? Oh, no. So what are we going to say 'you are another category of workers and you are not entitled'? Oh, no. You'll find a way to incorporate it into the bachelor as an extra percentage. If their agreement is to get 30 euros, 40 euros, that is where the insurance contribution is added, and automatically and automatically, what it has to do with the licence allowance. Is it 20 minutes? Then, 20 minutes. Is it 50 minutes? Then 50 minutes. There's a way. Why didn't it happen all along? I explained that the complexity of the system was obviously not left. But in the first place, it was introduced to be evaluated. So, after three, four, five, six, seven, ten years today, what does it show? Does it indicate that we need to create another category of workers? Oh, no. The ergonomic tool differentiates the process rather than the worker's characteristics. The work itself will be provided, regardless of whether it is insured in the classic way or in an insured manner. In other words, I would like to agree that we are not seeking to differentiate the form of work according to the insurance tool we are using. The insurance tool will be simplified to serve the temporary work of this employer. For example, I need to do a job - at home, not in the field - to take care of the environment. I need a man for three hours. Apparently, getting started by an employer there makes it easier. Making a "ERGANIS" classic doesn't work. The bachelor serves. What upgrade must just be made? When I go to cut off the mistress from the bank, from the ELTAs or anywhere else, it should be connected to the EFCA platform and automatically pass these data. That's how the problem is solved. The Ministry of Digital Policy is not to gather responsibility from the other ministries, as we said the other day at the time of the draft law, and to become a very self-evident ministry that will do well, but the other ministries will leave it to their fate. That's what he did with the Ministry of Rural Development, which has an unsafe connection. The entrance to gov.gr has not been certified. It is obliged to support the e-government of all actors. That's the alpha. It's not the beta or the omega, obviously. It is the alpha alpha, so let Mr. Pierracakis do it, to support you digitally, to solve these bureaucratic problems with a single platform for the bachelor, which will incorporate all the work rights and laws that apply to insurance and pension. That's the one. The second is the following: we agree that if a farmer, who is insured in the second category - to say exactly - who has to pay up until this year EUR 104, if he makes a divestment to another farmer, who has to make it easier for him to fill out his income because we have problems - and the other farmer, who has a job to offer him, does not seek revocation or other things - he can, in the EUR 104 he is obliged to pay fixed insurance, offset the amount that he has collected from the ergonomie, or is going to be in pro-faith and patronage to the general Korean anonymity? Here's the question. He will have to pay extra 104 euros. It's a specific question. This will make it easier for the borrowers, as we used to call it. This is a traditional institution. Go ahead, work on each other, etc. Only now, with the tax and insurance systems in place, this has to be reflected on paper. So this possibility should be given, that he has his insurance rights and that the other farmer can spend the amount of the bachelor’s issued for this work. I say it as an example. I can say more. It needs a flexibility. Is the problem we now have with the farmers is if the OGA insured can work on another farmer as farmers, the IKA insured without the restriction of the seventy units, not lose their jobs any disadvantages they might make as land workers, regardless of the number seventy - the Holy Spirit graduation came and put seventy there? - a professional can work and at the same time see the necessary adjustment for workers by relocation, always under the COVID rules. But for the IKA bachelor, I would like to add something very important, to see that we have to look at it on another basis rather than as a separate category of work, something between work and work as you said. We must call it clean work that is secured by a different procedure. Today, the person paid with a bachelor’s pension to have full insurance for twenty-five days, which is related to pensions, must have a earnings of about 1,200 euros in total for the twenty-five instalments. One who is insured through the classic process, the recruitment, with a salary of EUR 650 per month, is enough to have twenty-five marks. This is a huge injustice. One wants 650 euros, the other 1,200 euros. If he does, like, a thousand, he won't have twenty-five days? Will he have less insurance? In other words, he's going to work for forty years, but he's going to be taken into account for thirty. This is an arrhythmia, which needs to be corrected. I mentioned the others in my prototype. Don't repeat them. I think that we need immediate measures to facilitate this period and a medium-term job, which I am sure you will do with the setting-up of a team, but also with consultation, because, believe me, the experts and experts of the Ministry are not enough. We also need to talk to ordinary people who know the problem at their source. You're going to make a good result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u23	Minister, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President, and Mr Kegeroglu. With regard to unification of the ECA rules, it is obviously something that is particularly important. We agreed last time. We are already working in this direction, and we already have the first results. And I hope in the next few months we'll see a lot more. I would like to stay on Mr Kegeroglu's question, as it has been tabled. You have raised a number of really interesting questions, which, if I am not mistaken, do not result directly from the question put. We can talk about this in the context of other questions. I would like to refer in particular to 'ERGANI II'. As I said in my prototype, with 'ERGANI II', we now have full monitoring of all forms of work, whether it is wage-related work, whether it is work-related or whether the employer is a natural person, whether he is a legal person or work is provided at home, at the factory, in the field. Everything will now be registered on the new platform and monitored by there. In fact, there will be a link between working time and individual employment card, with even working hour, not just monthly. We thus give employers and workers flexibility and, for the first time, we will be able to record even the smallest unit of employment. The Ministry of Labour is already in the preparation phase of the tendering documents for the creation of the "ERGANI II" platform. By the end of this year, the new regulatory framework will be completed, but also the electronic specifications. You can understand, obviously, that we are talking about an integrated process, namely a combination of legislation and the creation of a platform, with actions that are "current" at the same time in different parts of the Ministry. With regard to the individual issues you raised about the mistress of land workers, I would like to state that the previous framework that was actually in place was inappropriate and that is why we have reached the point where it had not been cleared for three consecutive years - what you mentioned -2017, 2018, 2019. The arrangement for the clearance of the bachelor was passed. The relevant Circular has also been issued and the relevant application by the Circular is in integration. We are also in the process of amending the legislative framework to bring it into line with the changes in the insurance contributions made by Law 4670/2020. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] To conclude, I would like to point out that we recognise that each system which is set up and started is effectively tested, its advantages and disadvantages are identified and in the course of the process it is amended - this is not only the case for the mistress, it applies to any other innovation - and, of course, it is adapted to the reality and the conditions of the market. We experienced this in the most intense and emphatic way during the pandemic period, during which the needs for new ways of recording and imaging work emerged. Same goes for the bachelor. Every change to be made will be to reason that it is a hybrid form of employment, a peculiar form of a project contract, not a job, which you mentioned earlier. Our main concern is not to introduce it as a competitor of permanent, stable and full-time. And that is what we consider to be in the interests of the workers, but also in the interests of the labour market in the country as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u25	Me too, Minister. The first report on the cycle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will now be discussed, on the subject: "The letter from the National Federation of Blinds and Union - a member of the Pan-Hellenic Blind Association, expressing their strong protest at the cutback by the OPECA of the blind scientists". In this report the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglu will again respond. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Madam President. He's been judged, Minister. It's work. You know that there are many judicial decisions that say that what was presented as a work was undercover. This is another case. However, because they are institutional, I think you should see from the outset how it should be determined. The question about the scientific allowance for the disabled could be an opportunity for a more general debate on benefits. This is a debate which I personally had the luck of having dialogue with both the social partners in the country and outside. In short, what I believe and what I have always substantiated and convinced of even the toughest of the troika and the Germans - which in this case had taken the initiative to abolish them - is that the disability allowance is given to our fellow citizen who, due to the particular disadvantage of the disability, needs support to be equal, in accordance with the Constitution, to other citizens in the exercise of their rights either of work or of life in general. Here we have a particular case, because we have the disabled person who can receive a life benefit or a disability pension, but at the same time, with the existing institutional framework, the state tells him that he can practice the profession of lawyer, doctor or any freelance professional. He's giving it to him. The scientific allowance was not established for the general equation of the disabled, so that in life it is equal to the others and has the same conditions in any case, if we can say that an allowance can make it equal. It's a counterbalance. Unfortunately, all with money and benefits are not restored in life. On the subject of scientific allowance, we have the support of the scientist to carry out the activity for which he is given the right to exercise it. In this regard, the lawyer may receive a disability allowance for life and home, but he may also receive a pension. The state tells him that he can practice the law profession, but that as a blind man he doesn't need any attendance or additional support to exercise it while recognizing it before. There's an anti-corruption. Members who have any form of disability are also being facilitated here in the House. And in cases where we were deaf, we had more individual interpretation or attendance when we had blindness, etc. So there's no surplus of scientific allowance since you give him the right to practice the profession. If you don't give him the right, surely it's cut off. However, both cannot be applied and say to him: "Yes, work, but I do not give you the prerequisite to support so that you can do it well." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Madam President, and you and Mr Kegeroglu. You will allow me to begin by pointing out that your question has been asked first of all by the Ministry of Labour in the form of a timely question and by another colleague of your party a few months ago. The data available to the Ministry's Services have not substantially changed since then and define the answer I will give further. Before going on, however, I would very much like to raise a few points of the government's policy, which demonstrate the care it takes to protect our fellow citizens with disabilities, precisely within the framework mentioned by Mr Kegeroglu. Specific measures were taken in the context of the pandemic: structures hosting our people with disabilities with five hundred additional workers in critical qualifications were shielded. There have been strict operating protocols - probably the strictest throughout Europe - with the EAFRD directives, of course. Workers with disabilities benefited from open care structures, regardless of their age, were included in the beneficiaries. The payment of disability pensions and allowances has been extended for three months as a result of the suspension of meetings of the CEDEFOP health committees. Finally, a few days ago the National Action Plan on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was put into public consultation. This is, in fact, the first integrated and coherent effort of the Greek state to establish a full and functional framework of respect for and promotion of the rights of our fellow peoples with disabilities in any manifestation of their lives. The coordination of ministries associated with this long-term policy was undertaken by Mr.Gerapitris and it is practical what Mr Kegeroglu mentioned earlier in his position as desirable when he referred to all types of disability. I now come to the essence of Mr Kegeroglu's question, which concerns, first of all, the visionary allowance. The reduction in the amount of the allowance to which you refer is due to the application of the principle of legality, i.e. the rules of law in force concerning specific cases identified in the context of administrative control and cross-checking. As you know, the body responsible for granting the vision allowance is OPECA. In particular, KYA 5855/2018 stated that from 1-1-2019, OPEK granted a total of 10 promotional cash benefits to disabled persons, as defined in an earlier law of 2018, to Law 4250. Neither the conditions for granting nor the amount of the benefit were amended by the above GPS. What has changed - and is important for our debate - is that the process of submission and processing of requests and, ultimately, the procedure for granting and re-allocating was simply digitised. Also, in January 2020 - and for the first time - such a check was carried out on the legality of the payment of allowances by means of electronic cross-checks with other digital databases in the public sector. We believe this is a very important step for two reasons: the first is to make more efficient use of the resources allocated to the financing of benefits and the second is to ensure transparency, good administration and equal treatment of people who are in charge. In any event, during that audit, OPEKA, as a competent body, is bound by the legislative framework, judicial decisions and interpretative circulars and instructions of the supervisory authority. This is exactly how OPEKA did in February 2020, when two registries, the electronic register of beneficiaries of the OPEKA and the electronic register of pensioners with the details of the social security institutions, namely the single system of control and pension payments, were in contact with HDR. The findings of this junction were extremely interesting in terms of visual benefits. Since I have exceeded my time, I will deal with these results in detail in my secondaryity, to which I shall refer as well to what Mr Kegeroglu said, namely what resources are available to every category of beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we had advanced a reform of the CEECs and the cross-border and control of all allowances, which showed that thirty-six thousand allowances should not be received. We streamlined the system on the basis of the rules of law that we have created or which were in place and correcting the problems that exist. The establishment of the OPEKA, which, despite the problems, was also assessed by us as being able to contribute to the overall objective. We voted for a law. The New Democracy has not voted. He denounced him. And it comes as a government that the New Democracy implements horizontally and without taking into account the current forms of electronic crossings, to cut benefits. You've cut allowances to fifteen people. Bravo! In the midst of a pandemic, you cut the scientific allowance to fifteen blind ones. Again, not to you, Mrs Michaelidou, who, when instructed to cross-check the data, did not say: "Children, it is not the general category of retired people who are forbidden to have an activity. It shall be the category of retired disabled persons, which may also pursue the scientific activity by the profession of lawyer or other.’; I've explained them to you. So when it is allowed by the law as a pensioner at the same time as exercising the right of the lawyer, you cannot say that I am giving you the right to practice the profession, but I do not give you the scientific allowance that has been deemed necessary to support this scientific work. That's why it's also called a scientific allowance. So don't tell me about crossings, Minister. Do not tell me about the application of electronic procedures when the necessary data, the legality and the rules have not been introduced in the electronic procedures. I would like you, instead of answering this question again. To end and cut the possibility - I say clearly, clearly and simply - to engage in a profession as soon as he is a retired person. However, if you do not end it and give it the right, you cannot cut off the scientific allowance that is to support it. I am that principle. Or one or the other, demi, half, things, a little bit from here and a little there, can't be done. Clean words, clean procedures. And I do not want an answer today about whether this is something that can help. I want you to see the matter again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u31	Me too, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Madam President. While on many points I previously agreed with Mr Kegeroglu, here I shall disagree with him. Since the electronic cross-check in February 2020, the following is found: A total vision allowance is granted to approximately 16 000 beneficiaries. Of these, the two hundred and seventy-eight beneficiaries receive the allowance of EUR 697 a month as lawyers who have proved to be law-abiding, while they were also beneficiaries of a pension from a social security institution. For these cases, the audit was carried out on the basis of this 2008 FCH, what existed before. What's the result of this? Firstly, for blind lawyers working before retirement, the amount of the vision allowance is EUR 697, what Mr Kegeroglu said earlier. These beneficiaries therefore receive remuneration plus allowance. Secondly, for blind pension lawyers the amount of the allowance is EUR 362. They receive this allowance plus pension. Blind pensioners who are still working as lawyers receive their reward, pension, and the allowance itself, i.e. EUR 362. In other words, the Staff Regulations provide for a level playing field for the retired person who works and who does not work. We're saying here that we have a pension, plus the blindness allowance they receive. For this reason, in other words, the Staff Regulations provide for a level playing field for the pensioner who works with the non-working person. Here I would like to remind you that, following the recent arrangement of the Minister of Labour, the pensioner's lawyer who continues to lawfully receives 100% of his pension for the first time. For all of the two hundred and seventy-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-ei-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-eo-e, the total of all of seven-eco-eco-eco-eco-eco-e-e-eco-e-e-e-e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.g.g.g.e.e.e.e.g.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.e. does not not not At the same time, OPEKA asked the supervisory authority a question, namely the General Secretariat of Social Solidarity and Poverty Fighting, calling on it to interpret the CSCE I mentioned earlier. OPEK's question related to the specific case of eighty-nine beneficiaries from the total of seven hundred seventy-eight who received a grievance-factor allowance from the social security institution. For this allowance, there was a doubt as to whether it should be considered as a pension benefit. In the Secretary-General's reply on 22-24-20, the following were accepted: The grievance and quadruple allowance granted by social security institutions is not a pension, so the eighty-nine beneficiaries are not part of the prerogatives of financial aid as pensioners and therefore are entitled to the entire amount of EUR 697. On the contrary, for the remaining ones, eighty-nine beneficiaries of the allowance who were found to receive - they are the ones who had no quadruple - grievance - at the same time pension, the OPEK rightly reduced the amount of the allowance to EUR 362, i.e. the amount laid down by the CSR. As I have already said, this also applies to beneficiaries who are both lawyers and pensioners. Then - let us clarify this - the OPECA sent to the hundreds of eighty-nine beneficiaries an act amending the amount of the allowance from EUR 697 to EUR 362, starting in February 2020, i.e. from the month when the electronic crossing took place. At the same time, OPEK proceeded with the resuming of the vision allowance at the initial amount of EUR 697 to the eighty-nine deceased benefit beneficiaries - four-fold retrospectively from the date of its temporary reduction, namely March 2020. This is the illusion of the situation in terms of your question. And, as is clear from the processing of numerical data and on the basis of the existing legal framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u33	The second question under number 8772/410-6-8-2020 will now be discussed and an application for the submission of documents of the circle of petitions and questions by MP B2' West Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject of "Possible pollution of the marine environment in the port of Syros". The Minister for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr Constantine Hatzidakis. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes for your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing this question because you refused to answer it. We are here to discuss an unanswered written question. So, first, I would like to ask you why this question has been left unanswered. We are discussing an issue that is very important to Syros. It is an important place of employment and activity, an important company for the island. In parallel with jobs, we must also protect public health. That is why the questions I am asking are, in order not to become a bad start from the new company, as has unfortunately been done from all the previous ones. We've got the transport of the sandstorm. Finally, did this sandstorm that were there illegally and which makes us impression that from 2011 until today, where GDP is present, never noticed that the conditions are being violated and that the sandstorm that was abandoned in outdoors and that the wind was running all the poisons it contains in the Ermoupoli air? No one noticed he was there illegally? At last, however, it was transported a month ago, a month after your own governance, but we do not know how this transport was processed and where it went. What's next? Is there going to be a sandstorm or a water explosion, as the company has announced? GLOBAL prevents water pollution. How can this announcement come out of the company? Also, what about the risk of this sanding? Do we have the waste report, do we have the risk certificates for these materials? Because if it is dangerous, as would normally be, on the basis of the fact that it is material derived from reefs, which are full of heavy metals, it should be part of the obligations of the SEVESO Directive, with very specific authorisation. So I would like you to answer the substance of the matter, what will happen with these dangerous materials, as well as with all the documents you have not presented - and the answers you have not given - and which I will not repeat, unless necessary, in my second language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u35	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Arsenis, the reason why your question has not been answered within the deadline is that you submitted it on 6 August and obviously fell on the leave of summer. It has also been combined with the collection of various documents and it has not been possible because of staff's permission to reply, but the written reply with all the necessary documents has already been sent to you. Obviously, environmental protection issues concern one of our main activities at the Ministry. Of course, this is also about the marine environment. The Ministry of Shipping therefore also has a co-responsibility. I don't know if you've been there. Since your question was not only addressed to the Ministry of the Environment, but also to the Ministry of Labour, the answer will, in fact, be limited to the responsibilities of the Ministry of the Environment. I note that all the documents you request will be taken in the written answer. You ask for different documents. All the documents will be at your disposal. In relation to the first question, what amount of hazardous sanding waste, etc. it has been removed recently and which company has taken over the shipment, where the waste has been transported, and how it will be managed, I would like to tell you the following. The Ministry's Waste Management Directorate informs us that in 2018 and 2019 the Syros Shipyards carried out ammunition shipments as follows: In 1918 a quantity of ten thousand hundreds of twenty-five tons of waste was removed through the “DIAMANTOPOULOS” and “REWASTE” companies. This quantity was delivered to the factory of ‘AGET HERAKLIS’ in Milaki Evia for recovery of mineral materials. In 19 19, a quantity of fifteen thousand eight hundred thirty tons of waste was removed through the company REWASTE delivered to the "GATT" in Milaki. This year, up until now, a quantity of twelve thousand two hundred and fifty tonnes were removed through the company REWASTE, which was again delivered to the "AGET" in Milaki. In your reply, the waste reports for the years '18 and 2019 submitted by the Syrian Shipyards to the Electronic Waste Register are communicated. For 2020, no data have been entered in the register, as the persons responsible within 2021 and in particular until 30 March 2021 have to be made available. Regarding the audits by the Inspection Body of South Greece, we received information that checks have been carried out at the premises of the Syros yard on December 18, 2018 and April 22, 2019, following an order from the Provincial Council of Syros. However, since the procedure for the prosecution investigation is under way, it is not possible to provide the inspectors’ reports as they are elements of the case-file, as it is not appropriate to refer to further information under investigation. With regard to environmental licensing, I mention concisely - because we do not have time - that the decision to renew environmental conditions was adopted in October 2011 and has ten years in principle, that is to say, until October 2021. This decision, which is also notified to you by the reply, specifies the procedure to be followed for the management and transport of the waste produced by the yard. These wastes obviously include sanding waste. I'm stopping here, so we can continue in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Minister. Come on, Mr. Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Minister. Minister, you see now that summer is sometimes difficult to examine documents. I tell you, because you defended the state's right to bring the new National Waste Management Plan for consultation on August 6 for 15 days during the summer holidays - and it is not just the Ministry's officials who find it difficult to carry out documents - and without bringing it to Parliament. So, I understand you, but I don't understand you on other matters centrally, like the National Waste Management Plan. Now, I'm amazed at the numbers you mentioned. In 2018 ten thousand tonnes, in 2019 15 thousand tonnes and so on. I am surprised that from the GDP you mentioned, which was actually authorised in 2011, a maximum amount of sanding waste is foreseen for a thousand five hundred tonnes. So, really, I'm surprised where all the other tons were found. I'd like an answer. As it seems to me that while this GDP says that both the sanding material included in the plant and the used material to be stored on a waterproof floor, to protect itself against rain, floods, fires, winds, etc., I have lived in Syros and so many years we have seen these mountains of sanding in Neorio. Workers, obviously, have nothing to do with this, because there is one attempt in Syros - from the administration, I fear, at any time - to confront the society that reacts to the environment, with the workers who rightly work and must continue and protect these jobs. But here we have a matter of how we manage. The choices are made by companies. That is why I would like to ask you to be clear in your answers as to whether there will be a hydrophase announced by the company. Water scarcity is something that is forbidden by GDP. And you said it was in force. From now on, sands will be observing the terms and conditions of GDP and, of course, when will the risk certificates of this material be available? Because otherwise I'm afraid we're exploring society to a risk. There has never been an epidemiological study, although there have been many requests, for many decades from local society. There is an immunizer, which must finally be broken and must be broken centrally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u39	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u40	With regard to your comment on the search for many and different documents from the services, by participating in an electronic consultation, you are obviously comparing things that are not the subject of this debate. The object has to do with the Syrian shipyards. I would like to say to you that we obviously have to respect all the GDP forecasts. Nobody said otherwise. The fact that these thousands of tonnes have been carried, to which you have referred, is that there was a special situation. They were abandoned in the port and should be transported. What do you propose? Stay there? As far as water pollution and sandslides are concerned, I am once again referring to environmental legislation. No one says that things should be done outside environmental legislation. Finally, with regard to the further investigation of possible pollution at the port of Syros, as we had informed the House during the debate last February, a proposal was drawn up by the PPE Group for a study of the polluting load of sediment at the bottom of the port of Ermoupolis and the assessment of possible sources of pollution. The project proposal has been notified to the Municipality of Syros and the South Aegean Region. At this stage the necessary consultations are made to finalise the content and methodology of the study. The proposal from the PPE Group is in line with what we proposed, and it was mentioned by this at the time by the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Economou. That is to say, an overall study, by collecting and treating samples, of sediment from all over the port, in order to create a more complete picture of the potential and sources of pollution. Because then we told you that there are some methodological issues about the size of the sample and whether this allows conclusions to be drawn for the whole port. That is why we support the need to carry out a more extensive study, which will help us in the Ministry of the Environment and Energy to know the real situation of the bottom and whether there are activities that pollute the marine environment. That's all I have to say. And we're here. You will examine the documents we send you. We are at your disposal to see if legislation, the result of the study, is violated and how we can deal with all the possible issues that arise. I would like, however, to ask, since we are talking about the port of this particular shipyard, not to forget that for years we have been talking about a problem for both the island and the workers. We now have a new situation ahead of us. This does not mean that any positive developments in the level of investment and work must be made on the environment's behalf. However, we must not underestimate any developments at the workplace.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we are interrupting the debate on the topical and urgent questions here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Mr Socrates Famelou, Minister for the Environment and Energy, will be discussed under Rule 134(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, by MP II Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Public Business Plan". I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to keep your time tight, because there are other time-consuming questions coming. So the honourable Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the question under Rule 134(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure is due to the fact that the Minister for the Environment and Energy did not fulfil the obligations of parliamentary control and did not submit a reply on a question which was submitted six months ago by Members of the SYRIZA Parliament and by me, even when there was a procedure that had been followed in the past by the previous administration to enable Members to be informed of PPC's operational plan, even by visiting the Ministry or the offices of the company. Mr Hatzidakis, however, systematically despises the institution of parliamentary control. This also shows a devaluation of democratic dialogue and transparency. Of course, this is a attitude that is not personal, its own. It concerns the entire parliamentary group, and in particular the Prime Minister, who wants to photograph and talk only to those who want to applaud him, obviously to keep and maintain an image that they have created and the government-friendly within the 20 million million-dollar of Mr Petsa. You probably need a new campaign, as it seems that you are preparing a new arrangement to fund and confuse the media and maintain an image, but it does not suit you, but it is not the same in society. The real dead ends and agony are born in society and you cannot cover them with propaganda. But even Mr Hatzidakis' position on the greenest Prime Minister seems strange, since they seem to be self-sufficient. Because how is it done on the one hand that we have the greenest Prime Minister and on the other hand all the environmental organisations blame Mr Hatzidakis for environmental crime in a process that also offended dialogue, since it is an insult to call interlocutors, to listen and to talk with them and to do exactly the opposite to what they suggest? And that was not only in the anti-environmental bill, which - if you remember - brought it into Easter, with reduced Members' participation, but also in the national planning of the waste, which was passed in August by a decision of the Ministerial Council, bypassing and firing the House. There are other incidents that we could say, as Mr Economou has come to reply to a question from Mr Hatzidakis recently about waste, such as that they did not even read the provisions of the Ministry of Tourism, which amended forestry legislation and, if we did not read it in the House, they would not be angry and would not understand exactly what they signed and withdrew, but also the basic one, that from forty-five written questions only 22%, only the ten responded late and 33% came to time. With regard to PPC's business plan, however, this fantastic plan was presented on 16 December. We asked for a document on 6 March. Many would assume that in the House you didn't come, because you don't have it. No, it's not like that. You have a plan and you want to hide it. Of course you have no plan for how PPC will be a pillar of the energy system. You have no plan for the energy costs of businesses currently being pressed, since the other government measures are missing to support them. You have no plan for our fellow citizens who really have no power to pay today. But your plan is clear. You want to sell out the public property of the country and all the gold of the energy infrastructure. You want to settle the interests of a small business group, an elite, as Mr Mitsotakis admitted in the BILD interview. And you want to carry all the costs to citizens and businesses. And that's practically what you make of all choices. You choose to run counter to the public interest, against the social interest, against the real economy. You drive without a plan in a critical energy transition, when the most important thing would be to resolve the issue of energy costs and the security of energy supply. You don't have a plan and you're cheating on PPC. From the first moment you chose to start with an assignment of public property. In a way, you chose to sell and sell everything that all the Greeks and Greeks survived during the period of the memorandum. You started first of all with the issues of IPTO, the DEDEE, the natural gas. You sell a percentage of IPTO's public control while it's profitable and it's the most powerful tool in the transition. You are preparing to privatise the TEN, when there is no debt and there is no commitment from the creditors. You assign all the percentage of the public to DEPA OF THE INFRASTRUCTURE, i.e. the natural gas network, which will be a private company, a monopoly for all of Greece, while we have managed to keep the networks and international projects in public control. And all of your options are combined with many arrangements, because in the same bill you chose to sell IPTO, in the same bill you chose to sell DETAILS, at the same time you abolished the APA to PPC, you abolished the collective labour contracts and "blue" to the "blue" children with superb wages, which has now begun and is done to all companies and bodies that are under your Ministry. At the same time, you also took the initiative of the Prime Minister in a false announcement of liberation, in order to hide the real plan, which was to deliver electricity to private individuals, and even to an imported fossil fuel, which is gas, that is to say, to bind Greece to greenhouse gas production by 2050, reducing energy security issues due to dependency and linking all electricity production to some private individuals and indeed to a small proportion of private individuals, because at the same time you are stopping the energy communities and stopping the rest of the social economy, as well as the municipalities, to develop energy initiatives. You are practically replacing lignite with natural gas and not renewable energy, as it should be. You don't do carbonisation of electricity generation, you do gasification. The fact that you have no plan for PPC proves that, even today, more than a year from the Prime Minister's announcement, you have not yet announced what will happen with Ptolemais V. In other words, you are investing in a EUR 1.5 billion unit without knowing what fuel it will be operating and, in fact, a unit for which your governments have committed the next with high guarantees to contracts so that they cannot be broken and modified. You have absolutely no plan for a fair transition to these regions, namely western Macedonia and Megalopolis, of regions that supported the electricity and modernisation of our country. You reserve for the lignite regions a high unemployment score, which Mr Mitsotakis admitted when he said: "We will welcome the German companies in western Macedonia and the residents must find something to do." Unemployment and poverty are your plan for western Macedonia and Megalopolis, with a deepening of inequalities. It turned out that Mr. Mitsotakis' announcement to the UN was a hollow, empty communication effort without a plan. A week after the interview you have made on the plan communication for consultation, you have not yet posted to OpenGov the plan for a fair transition to lignite areas. And I ask, Mr. Hatzidakis: will you do that in secret too? Aren't you going to post it on OpenGov? Because we've only seen slides of presentation. We will not see what Western Macedonians are writing on the public consultation platform? Clearly, winners and losers seem very easy in your plan. The winners are very few, not even the business community of Greece, because your first project, your first option was to impose 20% increases, i.e. 500 million, to the detriment of all the consumers and all the companies in the country, of course, consistent with the memorial tomb of your governments 2010-2014, when you increased the cost of energy 60%, while the period of governance of SYRIZA - and we are proud of it - did not increase the price of electricity at all and we had a discount of 8%, as the European Energy Agency has informed us. But who benefit from Mr Hatzidakis' increases? Does the national interest and Greek production benefit? Oh, no. PPC’s competitors are benefiting because consistent customers are leaving. And there is this recorded, until "KATHMERINI" wrote it on 19-7-2020, that in September 2019, when the Hatzidakis measure was announced for the increases, it left 2.5% of consumers and from September to May we had a loss of 8% of the market share. So you reap PPC with these increases. And don't lie and shed various crocodile tears, that I've had with competition will lower prices, because with your own choice - and the personal choice of Hatzidakis - you have a personal responsibility for the expensive current and the household consumers and the professionals and businesses of the country. You are responsible for the loss of public property and you are responsible for satisfying the few and small business elites. Mr. Hatzidakis, on the other hand, we must admit that your hypocrisy is scaring us. We recently read from the ECONOMIST conference that you said'special arrangements and gifts of governments to one and the other that distort the market cause injustice'. I wonder: Did you see yourself in the mirror when you said that? Because you are the one who distorted the market, because by raising prices in PPC by 20%, you have enabled it to produce goodwill, profits and all its competitors, without losing customers, but by accumulating goodwill and profits today, where the cost of energy production is dropping and falling terriblely and tragicly worldwide. And you know that the world of the market and the households boast and that you are the guilty, because by apology at the same conference, proving your guilt, you said that you recognised the right of industry and the average Greek for lower energy costs. And what did you do about it? You're just kidding them! Today we are hitting a new economic crisis. You keep PPC's tariffs high, you increased the profit margin of competitors, you did not guarantee access for all citizens, especially professionals and citizens affected by Lockdown, because they had to stay home. And even though we formally asked you to do so, you did not guarantee access to energy. You also rejected the amendment we tabled for the lignite regions for a development status, but also the amendment we tabled with my colleague, Mrs Fotio, to give free reconnection and free supply of electricity to vulnerable social groups and groups affected by the pandemic. You are responsible for a plan for PPC and energy to the detriment of the country's interests, to the detriment of Greece's productive forces and to the detriment of society. And that is why you have to apologize, not just because you do not present it, but because you have a plan to the detriment of the interests of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, for keeping time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u45	Six hundred cut the current in Chania this month!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u46	Here, Minister, you also have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I'm starting to be your fan.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u48	It's never too late!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u49	I'm really starting to be your fan and I'm a fan of your unique ability to do the white one and where you owe us the ox! Where should I start, and where should I end in the ten minutes that I have at my disposal? I should normally speak more than an hour to talk about the lies that have just been quoted here by this Step, dozens, possibly hundreds of lies. I choose some: First of all, SYRIZA - we were all here in the House - who were spectacularly absent from the government benches, and as such the Bureau itself is forced to make comments to the ministers, today makes comments to us that we are supposedly absent from parliamentary control. I therefore have evidence of June 2020, which I got from the House and have been present here this summer. We'll find the most recent. In our Ministry, Environment and Energy, sixty - eight questions had been submitted by the sixty - eight questions in total, sixty - two topical questions. Of these sixty two personally, I answered twenty-one, Mr. Economou at thirty and Mr. Thomas at ten. Aggregate, twenty one and thirty and ten is - if I'm not mistaken - sixty one of sixty-two. That means that only in one of the sixty-two topical questions have been said! Mr. Famelos considers this to be a systematic absence from the House. Orwell! A complete distortion of reality! If you think that way you'll recover your credibility, you're wrong. We, obviously, gain from it and while you go on, the more we will be thankful for you! Now I'm actually coming to the point. SYRIZA asked us a question about PPC. Although I realised, of course, that it was extended to the whole of the government's energy policy. However, it is really noteworthy that SYRIZA is asking a question about PPC, because we all live in this country and we all remember the summer memorandum of 2015, in which SYRIZA agreed to PPC's share at that time to be reduced from 95% to 50% and even without any financial consideration. I do not think there is a different view. Also, worse with the NOME tenders, agreed at that time by SYRIZA and started to do, spotted and according to statements by PPC’s former CEO on SYRIZA, Mr Panagiotakis, PPC lost hundreds of billions of euros to the detriment of its competitors. It is estimated that more than 600m euros of money lost by PPC in the four, four and a half years that SYRIZA has ruled only in favour of competitors, i.e. the major interests, against which Mr Famelos has today been beaten. Is there a second reading on that? For there are the statements made by Mr Panayotakis. It is also well known and I have here the report by the auditor - and I will be tabling it in the Minutes - that last February, March, the sworn auditor appointed by PPC's previous administration had said that there is a question of the company's viability. Or didn't he? Are you questioning it? That's PPC we've received. A PPC that you agreed to shrink from 95% of the market to 50%, a PPC that lost more than EUR 600 million in favour of the major interests, according to your terminology, a PPC found on the verge of bankruptcy. After all, you also witnessed the course of its share, which of the EUR 7 that you received from, you delivered it to the European elections last year, which I remember, at EUR 1.2. What else, then, should have happened in PPC, so that SYRIZA would come and say an elementary'sorry', 'yes', 'yes, we made mistakes in the four-and-a-half-year period that we were ruling'? Say something! It does not mean that the current government should not be controlled for PPC, but rather that we should have a debate within reality. Let's see what happened from there. In August 2019, we announced PPC's rescue measures, which did not increase the tariffs for the consumer, because we reduced the EMFF respectively, using the reduction that you have done before - something we have said since - the value added tax. For the consumer, therefore, these tariff interventions were essentially neutral, but also useful to PPC and contributed to the company's recovery. Because of these measures, on 24 September 2019, the same auditor - I also have the data here and I will submit them in the Minutes - says that the problem of publicity has been overcome. On September 30th last, the legislative act was adopted by which we annoyed, the "beg, show", we abolished NOMEs and no NOME auctions have taken place since then, while you who are against the interests, had NOMEs and lost PPC. Then, on November 6, the international rating house ‘STANDARD & POOR’S’ upgrades PPC’s credit rating by one tier, apparently recognising the value of the rescue measures. On November 28, 2019, the n.4643 that comes to further modernise PPC and give it greater flexibility in procurement. It abolishes the permanentity of the new entrants, broadly harmonises it with those who keep its competitors in order to withstand competition and then PPC presents its medium-term strategic priorities and economic prospects on 16 December. I also have the text here, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes and which describes how PPC will move from now on. Now, you say this is not business plan. But you're questioning everything anyway. You say that the presentation we made with two major advisors as structures to support efforts to deprive ourselves is a report of ideas. What if it was "GRAND THORNTON"? What if it was the BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP (BCG)? You deceive everything because, in the technocratic structures of SYRIZA, all of this seems unworthy of content and you ask for other studies and other business plan, which you have obviously adopted over your time and have led to the brilliant results that I have just described. So that's the situation. This situation is obviously valued by the market in combination with other movements that have been announced and are moving forward. It is PPC's "green" turn. PPC held only 3% of renewable energy sources, a disgrace! This government is now making a courageous turn and a courageous effort in this direction. We move on to the partial privatisation of the TENDE at 49%, which will be a strong cash injection to PPC and will support the effort to further its resolution. We move on to degrease coordinates with voluntary exits that are self-financed for PPC employees. As I said, all this leads to a completely different picture of PPC that is not my appreciation. I mentioned earlier the 'STANDARD & POOR'S'. I can also mention the course of PPC's share, at whatever value it has, is not everything. But we actually received it around one euro, and now it's about five euros. We conspired with the vowed auditor, conspired with "STANDARD & POOR'S", conspiring with the entire market, which comes and values completely differently than you. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] PPC and its reassurance are a key example of the success of government policy. It is there to remind SYRIZA's tragic responsibilities in relation to the depreciation of the largest Greek business. It is there, to be a key element in comparing two policies, of SYRIZA's policy, which was allegedly inconsistent with PPC, its employees and the public sector, effectively destroying PPC because of ignorance or totally harmful agreements that it made with the European Commission and, on the other hand, our own policy, which came together and specifically, with a plan and programme that was implemented so that within a year PPC would change its image and constitute Greece and the external reference point for the new government policy. Thank you, then, for the question. It was an opportunity for me to illuminate our politics around PPC, to show our difference, to underline how you had become PPC and how we fought, so that we redeem and bring it to a much better place than today. I would ask you - it would be very useful for us - to continue asking questions and questions like today. Madam President, I am tabling the documents I have just mentioned, which are also on the Internet. [[At this point Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, too, Minister. Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA Mr Skourletis, Member of the State, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, for one thing I would ask you not to mistreat George Orwell. And I don't know when you have your birthday, to give you his books, because George Orwell made some prophetic references through his writings and didn't distort reality. So it was a pointless phrase. Unfortunately, what you said has nothing to do with the reality of the business, with the reality of businesses and households in this difficult period because of your own policy, as reflected in the energy sector. Minister, your account, your story is very old and classic, and you have it yourself, when at other times you have been in responsible government positions, it also applies elsewhere. First of all, we deceive the operation. I remember that as soon as you had taken over, you said you were waking up in your sleep by nightmares and sleeping next door, you have lenses and candles because you're afraid of a blackout. Of course, all of this had their purpose. You had to prepare the ground and convince us that there is no other way than the one Mr Famelos told you a moment ago, to charge you by increasing the tariffs of half a billion, which the citizens and businesses were asked to pay. You had to convince us that the only reason to save the company is to follow what is now being prepared, to privatise the DEDDIE, what can be the development oxygen for a positive course of the company itself. That's none of your business. There is a common denominator in all your policies: We work for individuals. And no matter whether a market is monopolistic - because I imagine you have some sensitivity about free competition - or not. You don't care. You don't care if the low-voltage network will be held by one. You want to give it to private individuals. You did the same in the gas, so you did the same wherever else you could. And, of course, everyone knows that the case of privatization of the TEN has the great investment, which will, in fact, be part of the Greek reality, which is the smart meters. So this is the positive perspective for the company you want to erase. You want to give her to other powers. Inside the bulb we help make some 'our own' children. Apart from hiring, we put some oversized wages on various executives, we do about Christmas, with many holidays, some calls for seats to set up the "Blue Army". This has been what you and the others have been doing for years and you have gone bankrupt and we are still paying for it. But be careful to see. Mr. Famelos told you very well. What you do with tariffs in the given conditions, which has been reduced the cost of electricity production and purchases from wholesale PPC at a very low price and sells at a much higher price than when the cost was more expensive, do you know where it leads? It leads to the creation of space and over-profit for private competitors. You're still working for private competitors. But you do not think that we are living under conditions of an unprecedented pandemic, that companies have been shut down since March and cannot stand on their feet. And it has seemed that you are not sensitive to these issues as government. But what about energy, you're gonna take it? Why so many thousands of cuts these days? Why did you not sit down with local government, which knows the vulnerable groups, and with Mr Theodorikos, who otherwise appears sensitive, and record all these vulnerable groups, create a special support fund so that people do not lose the power? In the public good of the current, no sensitivity! Over-profit, over-profit for the private! All your account about liberation there aims to open space in natural gas, i.e. again to private investors, when PPC's natural gas units have to go into operation, fail. It's all happening for private individuals again. You've been doing the same for health these days we've been talking about. Overprofit through molecular tests in private diagnostic centers. You do the same in education. Do you work for schoolgirls? In any case, there are many people's needs beyond the needs of the few you want to represent here, but you have absolutely nothing to do with such approaches. So you come, Minister, and instead of the public pillar inside the market, as it holds a dominant position, it drags the dance of degrading prices and helping businesses and households, you do everything you can to increase energy costs. In the other areas you are committed to giving solutions, instead of a fair transition to the lignite age, on the basis of liberation here we have a violent and unfair transition, because there is no plan. Your age, Minister, is near mine. If I'm not mistaken, we have about three years of difference. So you remember, years ago, when there was de-industrialisation, in Lavrio we collected blankets and sent canned to an area that had realized what was happening in front of de-industrialisation? In the face of the sudden death you are currently preparing for western Macedonia, there must be immediate measures. It is not allowed to relive this energy heart of Greece "Black" days. So more sensitivity and a plan, which you should finally present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Christos Boukokoros, MP Magnesia, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Madam President. However, lignite and green development do not go hand in hand. I fully understand, ladies and gentlemen, the need for you to come up with an opposition speech, to say something about a particular issue. Besides, inner-party disagreements are frequent - dense lately and your need to articulate for a matter of opposition is understandable. Unfortunately, you chose PPC because I see your question here. What's he saying? A single question. 'Become, Minister, the business plan'. You ask to know what the company will look like in the future and what role it will play. The better the business image of the company, the more increased the role it will play in either transition or energy adequacy and everything else related to PPC. Why do you ask what will happen and do not ask what happened to PPC today, what was PPC's business picture when you delivered it and what is PPC's business picture today, 14 months later? I would therefore say, ladies and gentlemen, that it is enough to take a look at the profitability of the company in the first half of 2019 and in the first half of 2020 to see that the company's progress has been completely reversed. Three hundred eighteen million losses in the first half of 2019, fifty-five million profits for the operation in the first half of 2020. We all know in this Chamber that the damages of this operation have often been called upon to be paid by the Greek people, the many who you say, deeply, putting their hand in the state budget, which is the money of Greek taxpayers. We should therefore all be concerned about the financial situation of such an undertaking. I'm not going into the course of the stock, which is another proof. You were analysed by the Minister. You had, however, handed over a business almost an entrepreneur and within fourteen months it seems to be a more healthy organization. For the political choices I can discuss and accept all views and discuss them. Each party has its own point of view. But the economic situation - as you ask the government's business plan - the figures speak for themselves literally. It's also Law 4443/2019 putting the company on a new base. There are also agreements with renewable energy companies. Of course, a plan has been presented for the transition to western Macedonia, which is constantly expanding, but I cannot understand how we call "no restriction on lignite" and ask for a green PPC on the other hand, overlooking both fines and environmental impacts and everything that is known and I do not need to repeat. So I would say that PPC today, fourteen months later, has nothing to do with PPC you delivered. Minister, I would only like to ask you for the areas affected by the recent bad weather, from the extreme weather phenomena, to take some care in consultation with PPC, but also the other providers for the rural world that saw its infrastructure being destroyed, its production being lost. There must be tolerance and new opportunities for our farmers affected by this disaster to have the opportunity to relaunch their production process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u54	Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement, Mr Arvanitidis, from the second Thessaloniki, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Madam President. About a year ago, speaking of PPC, I noted three points: SYRIZA's enormous responsibilities for the state of PPC, the need for a national strategy and understanding in the crucial for the entire Greek economy in the matter of PPC, the need for a comprehensive proposal from the Government for the new PPC. I fear that they remain as demanded, both for national understanding and for the comprehensive plan. I insist on national understanding, because PPC is not just another public company that we need to see on the basis of strict economic criteria alone. PPC is a strategic enterprise for the national economy, as well as for the country's geopolitical state. He must be a pioneer in renewable energy sources and present in the new energy networks in Eastern Europe and the Mediterranean. I also insist on the absence of an integrated plan, as despite the government's announcements we do not have the operational plan for PPC to date. They remain serious questions from the answers which will give rise to the role played by the government in PPC, and I list eight central questions for us, the Change Movement, Minister, and I expect clear answers. When will PPC be clear about what about Ptolemais 5? Will it finally start working in 2023 as a lignite plant? Has PPC prepared its relevant sections? Has he served them with sufficient staff to be able to work twenty-four hours for seven days a week since 1 November following the use of the target model? Does PPC owe the managers more than EUR 600 million and they in turn owe this money to PPC's competitors, thermal and RES? Is there a timeframe for repayment of these amounts? And the question is important because it depends essentially on the implementation of its investment project. How do investment in Albania and Northern Macedonia progress? What is PPC's participation in Euroasia Interconnector project? What about the "smart" meter contest? What does PPC intend to do with the Mediterranean hydroelectric power plant? Will there continue to be a social dimension of PPC's policy? I am also talking about vulnerable social groups and energy poverty. We do not make blind criticism, but PPC can no longer walk blindly or with your well-known tactics "seeing and doing". And, of course, Mr Minister, I recognise the rise in PPC's share and effort, although this has also been done with increases in public current accounts. But I cannot understand your insistence on privatising the IPTO's TEN. For us, the public goods networks must be under public control. These privatizations will also be economical and nationally inconsistent. In the area of lipomatisation, the only essential thing we know is that lipomatisation will not be done with an RES in the first phase but with imported gas. It also goes away because of a coronary, Minister, to inform you in the Committee on Production and Trade of PPC's supplies of liquid fuels. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that PPC must and must play a leading role in renewable energy projects and become a national lever of sustainable development, thus upgrading its geostrategic importance for our country and transforming it into a significant energy hub of Southeast Europe and an energy bridge with Africa, in order to reduce the price of electricity paid by consumers and businesses, perhaps the most critical parameter for the growth and competitiveness of Greek businesses. If you do not succeed, if you do not do and face PPC only as profitable and as another S.A., you will be accountable to history and will be judged strictly for your choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr Villardos, Member of the State, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is well known that PPC has been in a bad financial position because of the serious responsibilities of the political leadership at least in the past ten years, as in the last ten years, for example, with the scandalous NOMEs that were passed by all three parties with the third memorandum. Also, with other arrangements, PPC transferred PPC’s assets to its competitors, while there were additional management issues. Its imposition is estimated at EUR 10 to EUR 13 billion, according to its trade unionists, and on the basis of our own calculations, which we will be tabling in the Minutes, something similar is to be found. Is there really going to be a PPC Committee of Inquiry, Mr. Minister, as promised? In addition to this, the issue of the acquisition of the company in Skopje is pending. The government has now, following Mr Hatzidakis' dangerous risk, done the self-evident thing by abolishing NOMEs, but at the end of the year, at costs of EUR 156 million in 2019, which will benefit the results of 2020, when 2018 was EUR 227.9 million. It also increased tariffs, burdening society with its mistakes, while energy costs are on the European Union's average, as we will be tabling in the Minutes, but with much higher unemployment rates, lower wages and higher poverty rates. It further promoted the company's shrinking by degreasing and exiting staff. The new CEO promised to bring in a business plan, but having given only one brief presentation in December 2019. It reported the lignite stop by 2023, the increase of RES from 2.5% of production to 10% -20%, as well as from 650 to 900m euros in 2020, with a turnover of 4,8 to 4,9 billion euros and then 1 billion euro in 2024. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will not mention its results, because there is no time, but I will submit our calculations in the Minutes, because we like to speak with numbers rather than with screams. I will conclude by pointing out that the improvement that has been made is, in fact, absolutely figurative, as the figures are not comparable with 2019 due to the sales prices that have increased and the fall in fuel prices. These two factors were the ones that contributed to PPC’s best results over the previous year. So, considering the current results of PPC on the basis of the last year's parameters, as we will be tabling in the Minutes, the unadjusted administration after taxes, interest and depreciation would be at EUR 74 million this year from EUR 88 million last year. So it would be 3.7% -3.8% and so about the same. There has therefore been no substantial improvement. The losses before tax would amount to EUR 426 million in the first half of 2020 from losses of EUR 318 million last year. As the Americans say, you'd better have luck than a brain. Even worse, the company is evolving into an intermediary by a producer with high dependence on energy imports, with a risk of being blackmailed by both importers’ cartel and gas producers. This is a nightmareing scenario, a country with a weak economic position and external enemies, while Mr Hatzidakis does nothing to speed up the development of natural gas deposits, further stopping them south of Crete. At the same time, it promotes the sale of our strategic networks, DEDDIE, IPTOE, PPC reasonably at degrading prices under the present conditions, increasing the risks to national security. Finally, with regard to a fair transition to green energy, which we will also be tabling in the Minutes, it will become another fiasco and we propose an extensive debate in this House on all of this and not a few minutes of speaking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u58	I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to be quiet, because because of the mask you speak too loudly and bother my fellow Members when they speak. Thank you. The reason for three minutes is the parliamentary representative of Mera25 Mr Arsenis, MP, B2's West Athens Sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Madam President. We really see a great competition for who went bankrupt by PPC, when the truth is that the responsibilities of the New Democracy are enormous, as of course the responsibilities of the SYRIZA for NOME are enormous too. Because of a lack of time, I will not go into the wider background. We have had a multidimensional production of energy and networks and we have done this nationalisation in order to develop the network and have a low price, which can be jeopardised by the fragmentation and privatization that is escalating. We are, however, actually starting in 2013 with the variable-cost recovery mechanism introduced to ensure a protected economic environment for third parties, namely PPC's competitors and allowing them to be compensated at higher prices than those formed on the daily electricity market. It ensures that their units can operate independently of demand, enjoying guaranteed remuneration, irrespective of market and fuel costs, as the mechanism covers their costs plus 10%. These PPC competitors started making money out of these gifts and continued with the mechanism of safeguarding the power of third producers. According to the quarterly results of PPC, only in the first quarter of 2013 did the third producers, the successful private sector, with 105 million, only for that quarter, while the corresponding quarter of 2014 - only that quarter of the year, because there were three other quarters - with 11 million. Then we also had other aids, 43 million and 19 million. Of course SYRIZA came through the third memorandum and brought the NOMEs. We have something shocking here. Not only do they buy at the cost of producing the energy that they want and which is aimed at 50% reduction in PPC's market share, but these companies - this successful private sector of the five known major companies, which was once construction, sometimes energy, once in the RES, sometimes here, once there, casinos, stories, etc. - They're coming to export this power that they get free from PPC. Even RAE reached them to set a limit in 2017 at least 30% of the current not to export it. And here is the question to SYRIZA why this procedure was not banned immediately. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Now that they've taken all these gifts from us, they're coming to buy PPC. And, of course, Mr Minister, you abolished the NOMEs, because the private person you want to sell PPC would not want them, just as no healthy business can survive in this context. So don't blame PPC for mismanagement, don't blame when all these financial crimes have been committed on the back of PPC and the public interest, don't talk about PPC's deficit. Because it does not allow me time to say that we have tabled proposals on how jobs in Ptolemais and Megalopolis can be saved. But, to God, do not proceed by converting "Ptolemais 5" and "Ptolemais 4" into waste incineration plants, because, unfortunately, this seems to be one of your key scenarios. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The honourable Member now has the floor, Mr Famelos, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about truths. Really first. Mr. Hatzidakis tabled a draft operational programme for PPC. We're returning it to him. On the last page, what does it say, Madam President? ‘Completion of the operational plan’. Mr. Hatzidakis has just confirmed that what he has submitted to us says they have not completed the operational plan. Don't you read the bills, don't you read what you're filing in the House as evidence? Really second. Mr Hatzidakis, the Bureau brought you here under Rule 134, because you have not answered the question. So the fact that you are not diligent in the parliamentary duties is said by the Bureau of Parliament, not by SYRIZA. We are telling you something else, only 22% of the questions have been answered consistently and within a timetable. Get the numbers to compare them. We're going to the third truth at the sworn accountant's report. Please note, the report of a sworn accountant, who confirms that the accounting standards were complied with in September 2019, i.e. for the first six months that SYRIZA was governing, considers it to be a confirmation of the government's policy. It's a huge lie. But we're actually going after the three truths. You really have something new to tell us, Mr. Hatzidakis, why have you said that too many times? You want to talk a little bit about PPC's real plan? Do you want to talk about the results of the second semester? Your celebrations about your profits and celebrations on the stock exchange, yours and the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, indeed prove what our difference is. You said it, we'll say it. Our difference is that you are interested in what profits a company writes on the Stock Exchange and who shares them, while we care about what accounts reach households and what accounts they reach the Greek businesses. We are interested in whom the power is cut and how many are cutting off the power and you are interested in having a good reputation on the Stock Exchange for a company. Do you see how different we are? That's our real difference. Do you want to tell the truth? The profits shown by PPC come from your decision to increase a large amount of 20% and 500 million. However, what is too high is not profits, is how much profits PPC competitors have. And the very high is how many customers leave PPC, because the decrease in PPC's share is reflected in the lower volume of sales by 15%, as well as in the decrease in turnover. Watch out, increase in prices, decrease in turnover. While prices have gone downstream, both fuel and gas, as well as carbon dioxide and while the base price has fallen below 40 euros, PPC sells over 110. So we are interested in who goes bankrupt the economy and who goes bankrupt the society. Looks like you don't care. So let us see who is 'all grapes' competition, Mr Hatzidakis's competition. It creates a huge profit margin for PPC's private competitors, who also take customers, and PPC at the expense of the real economy, business, professionals and citizens. In the first half of 2019 PPC had a system limit value, energy, EUR 66,75 and sold with a consistency discount of up to 80. He sold to households at 94 and with a discount of up to 80 euros. The margin is from 19% to 40%. Hold it. Margin from the limit price, the wholesale price, from 19% to 40%, depending on the discount. Mr Hatzidakis, when in the first half of the year the average wholesale price, at the limit price, has fallen to EUR 41,34, how much does PPC sell? 110 and discount up to 104.5. What's the margin? It is 152% to 166% above the wholesale price. This is Mr. Hatzidakis. While the fall in wholesale in the first half of 2020 to 50% in both Greece and Europe, no consumer discounts, no support in the Greek economy, no support for households. This also applies to industry and the average trend, and the institutional report confirms this. Let's face it. The choice of SYRIZA was a low profit margin for PPC to keep prices low and prices of competition and to support your society and entrepreneurship and choice is profitable for the Stock Exchange at the expense of all, and PPC and consumers - households and consumers - business. Everyone comes out of politics, Hatzidakis and Mitsotakis and more of all Greece. How optimistic, however, you may be, really, when you make positive results, while you have not shown that PPC has not returned to the Greek public isoskeletalism with the advance payment of the municipalities, when the administration has not answered how the first seven months of implementation of the increase is taking place, while increasing the 20% invoices, would the revenues be reduced by 500 million? In other words, the increase in prices has also led to a reduction in collection. So, uh, you're supporting PPC? Also, you do not take advantage of natural gas, which has a high technological base and raises the share of private individuals in gas production now that the gas price has fallen. It's too much. However, the success story of the New Democracy is only about blue children. It is not about the real economy, it is not about society. And today that PPC and energy are called upon to play the role of the pillar of the economy, it will be your responsibility if the reduction of wholesale trade does not pass on to consumers. Madam President, I will present the monthly bulletin showing the fall of the wholesale price in 2020 - and I will conclude - in relation to 2019, so that the personal responsibility of Mr Hatzidakis and the Government of New Democracy can be seen, for the fact that we are paying extremely expensive power. So you will prove that the dominant entity will not fuel the enrichment of some and the profit to the detriment of consumers, but will fuel a new energy market. You're accusing us of NOME, Mr. Hatzidakis, but you're not saying anything about the elephant in the room. Institutional surveillance report. What are they saying? You're negotiating NOME. And, indeed, you are negotiating NOME by the end of 2020, including hydroelectric projects. Because it says in the report - and I will testify to it - that PPC's competitors will have access to a share of production which, after you drop lignite and do not work because of prices, what will it be? Hydroelectrics. So you are not deceiving PPC alone, you did not lie that your conscience would not allow PPC to be destroyed - a written reason for Brussels bureaucrats - you did not lie that you would exclude the sale of hydroelectric power. And NOME, you're doing hydroelectric power. And, of course, all this, after you take care of the blue kids in the DEDEN, making addresses for executives and people with political, party CVS. After having set up a party at the supplies, which we revealed recently by question, you are now coming to create a further problem in Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know that Mr Hatzidakis is re-establishing a deficit in ELEPE, the Renewable Energy Account and creating a problem in renewable energy sources too?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u63	I shall conclude, Madam President. This is your plan, Mr. Hatzidakis. And it is particularly dangerous for the country and for PPC. I can assure you that we will do everything in our power, based on legality, to overthrow it as an Opposition, but also in the country's next democratic progressive governance, because your scenario has been exalted. You now only write political costs and write it against the country and the real economy. Do you know what's on the energy? How quickly you will leave, because the cost of your political choices is paid by Greece, because you are indeed a bad moment in Greece's political, social and economic history, as was always the right one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u64	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The Minister has the floor for five minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u65	Madam President, I would like to begin with a request from the SYRIZA colleagues. I would like to ask them on the issues of our Ministry to continue their parliamentary control precisely with the same tone, the same tone, the same tone, the same tone, the same tone and the same to lies. The more you lie and the more you choose this field of controversy that you have chosen today, such as PPC, we win! Thank you from the bottom of our heart! Keep going! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to a number of other inaccuracies which have taken place very briefly, anyway, as long as the debate is taking place. First of all, SYRIZA is looking for the government, because it's doing a partial privatisation of the TEN. But who did partial privatization of IPTO? Did SYRIZA? Isn't IPTO the first cousin of the DAD? Back when it was the single PPC was the general distribution address DEDDIE and the Directorate-General for Transportation IPTO. So it is a problem that the Directorate-General for Distribution is partly privatised, but it does not matter for the Directorate-General for Transport. You don't have to say it. Protect yourself, find other fields of controversy! Secondly, SYRIZA is coming back to the NOME issue. Okay, how many times will you tell us to give us the opportunity to tell you that you have imposed them and at the expense of PPC its competitors have won over 600 million? I told you before, your CEO, Mr. Panayotakis, said so. Thank you, continue! New Democracy is not going to make such a government and we have made it clear to Brussels and the media that whatever agreement we make with Brussels on matters that are pending from the past, it will not hurt a single euro for PPC. It's over and over! Thirdly, there is no allegedly social person from PPC. PPC hasn't done anything in the past few months! Where were you in March and April last year when PPC's measures were announced at the time because of the coronary crisis? Free status for all low voltage customers, 8% discount on households and low-voltage businesses with over 2000 KW, 8% discount on vulnerable Category B and c, 5 euro discount on all e - bill old and young customers! Were you on a trip? You didn't realize? Why do you say it? Why are you being exposed so much? We have also discussed here on several occasions the measures that have been in place for your day and for our day, such as the social invoice, the other special measure that you have introduced and we are continuing to do so recently. We continued this summer. Don't you remember the conversations we had between us? I'm going further. Violent transition to liberation! You are supposed to be the green party. In the frustration, however, you want to go for a lot of people, while you know, at the same time, PPC can't stand it, because it's "inside". And he goes in too much by the lignite, which, due to the charges that PPC pays for carbon dioxide emissions, is a very expensive fuel. And you think we should go later. At first you said 'white', the other 'black', and now you have found this - it is supposed to be a compromise between you. This attitude exposes you. That attitude doesn't take you anywhere. It makes us even more reminder that so many years that you have ruled, the share of lignite was limited, but deprivation was carried out naughtyly, without any programme on your part and without any care for the local communities. We have a programme with a European Commission stamp totalling EUR 5 billion! Yes, sir. And here comes you who did nothing to check on us who have a very big and serious programme for the lignite regions. And then again, I heard from all my colleagues in the counter-population question how PPC is going, how things are going, because it's not the right thing to do. I told you what the sworn accountant says. You question what the sworn accountant says. The sworn accountant comes and confirms whether he agrees with what the board of directors tells him. The company's board of directors has nowadays said that it has a matter of viability. Understood! You said it yourself and the sworn accountant came along and agreed, signed it. And then came the new board of directors, took the emergency measures, corrected the situation, and came the sworn accountant and agreed. But the sworn accountant also agrees with reality. Because then came the 'STANDARD & POOR'S' and upgraded the credit rating, the stock exchange comes in and quadruple the value of the company's share and the financial results come in, I will submit the relevant documents in the Minutes - which say that where last year, in the first half, you were damaged before taxes of EUR 318 million this year, it has profits before taxes of EUR 52 million. That's the answer that's giving you the reality itself! Finally, understand what the reality is, don't be exposed, don't ask such bad and amateur questions, because all that happens is to give us the opportunity to remind you of how bad the situation in PPC was when you ruled and how much it actually improved and in particular in the fourteen months that we govern. I would once again like to thank you for this question, and I would ask you to make a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Minister. The Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA, Mr Skourletis, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, you have confirmed that you really believe in accurate energy. That your policy to increase your tariffs by 20%, indifferent to businesses and households, is immobile. Be careful, however, unless this choice goes to you, based on the other measures and your perception of small and medium-sized enterprises, where zombies you raise them, rots are downloading them. So you're saying, now what are we gonna do? Are we going to make a policy to support these businesses? The expulsions now take place, Minister, thousands of hundreds. Put some people like we did when we were at the ministry, talk to the citizens and take complaints and take the appropriate steps. Now the world needs relief, perhaps within a few days it may need to be in its homes. So you talked about lies to us. I'll tell you some truths. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENDITURE What partial privatisation? 51% owned by PPC, which, as you know, 50% and something was in public, while the rest belonged to individuals. Now 51% is purely public and is under the control of your ministry. It's not under the control of the Ministry of Finance, IPTO. A company that implements the largest electrical interconnection project in Europe, where it has profits, and I was even here today reading that it wants to make connections with private investment islands in RES. Why, they are profitable, what is the reason for this natural monopoly to give it to some individuals? There is no business explanation but your monopoly, your incarcerable neoliberalism, your dogmatism to work for certain particular private interests and to create private monopolies at the expense of public interest and public property. West Macedonia. Look out! The face of green politics and green development is an empty shirt. You are working on natural gas, but it has an environmental footprint. It may be a transitional fuel, but it has paid and paid pollution certificates. Lesser, but he's paying for polluting certificates. And at the same time you come - to see how contradictory you are - and you are talking about trying to get the impact of 20% increase in the accounts to be less, reducing EMSMAR, while at the same time creating a very large deficit in the RES account, so today you are told that this problem we have solved for decades, that investors are paid on time, today to come back. Is that the perception of green growth, that you are putting brakes on the penetration of RES? That's the truth, Minister. I want to tell you something and to finish with it. We are proud that neither EUR 1 has now been uploaded, nor the home, nor the business, and the thirty-six instalments that took place, have been a breath in the difficult conditions of budgetary collapse. They took away the households and improved PPC’s collection at the time. Look at the evidence. Today you have a different policy. You don't care about them, you consider them fine letters and come here with various reports of sworn accountants that refer to not in real terms, but in accounting figures, when you previously do not incorporate, for example, what PPC owes you to repay from advances to the municipalities. So, in short, you're mocking us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. The Minister will close the procedure. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u69	I know I'm not going to convince you, because anyway you have decided to escape from reality. Have a nice trip, not really! There's nothing else I can tell you. So let's go back to IPTO, more to Greek citizens. IPTO was partly privatised against SYRIZA and the Chinese - only, I am not saying for the Stock Exchange - have 24% with strong minority rights. Or am I wrong? They're not Chinese? There are others I see at the IPTO there, the boards, etc.Huh? Where did they find them? And who brought them? Did I bring them and forgot? Excuse me. You did it. And because we're going to do something similar to the DEDEN, you're uprooting, and you're attacking us! Excuse me, this is no longer a matter of political order. I'm not making any other comment, I want to stay here. Second, invoicing invoicing. We had said last year that we did not hide it, that it was 2,5 euros a month. That's it. You say 20% increases. You see them, consumers don't see them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u70	They don't see them? Keep it up!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u71	Apparently not. They see what we say. And also consumers see...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u72	They don't see them? That'll be the title!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u73	Titles you can put. Any titles you want to put, the more you're exposed. I've been talking to certain numbers last year. That is what I call for this year. And these figures are the reality. Now, from there on, the cover that existed for the weakest of your days and you're proud of it, that's exactly what's happening today. What's changed? I challenge you to tell me, you people who are being cut off for the weaker, what measure there was for the poor and have been abolished. And if you say about your office, you have no monopoly of sensitivity. I've said it. Obviously my own office and every minister who would be in my own position by any party obviously deals with individual cases and possible injustices, which may occur within hundreds of thousands of consumers. Alas. Stop this infamous monopoly of sensitivity, because you passed through the government and gave the private competitors 600 million lost by the NOMEs that you agreed and today you move the finger! From there on, two more remarks and I am closing, Madam President. Croatian tears of SYRIZA for the deficit of the RES account, ignoring SYRIZA that a very large part of any deficit exists, because because of the coronary there was a decrease in demand both in Greece and in Europe. And because ELPE's revenues are linked to electricity consumption, the less demand is the greater problem there is. Everyone in this market knows that. What are you suggesting? Are you suggesting I come and charge the households to cover the deficit? If you suggest it, say it. I, therefore, declare on behalf of the Government that we will not increase EMFF. We will not increase the EMFF! It bothers you, doesn't bother you, that's our position!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u74	Decrease the power in the world!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u76	And one final comment. You said that when we talk about the reports by the sworn accountants, we are referring to accounting figures. If we are talking about you, you are also referring, because the auditor to whom I am referring, you have appointed him. He was an international renowned and well appointed and controlled by the Securities and Market Commission. And this company said that PPC was on the verge of bankruptcy, with the signature of your board of directors first, as I mentioned earlier. And then what happened and different reports came out and PPC has a different course. So I am not talking about accounting reports, I am talking about the economic reality of PPC and the country, and I am talking about what all citizens are experiencing. You refer to the SYRIZA world. Stay in SYRIZA's world. You will pass happy and you will let us see you every day as our sponsors in our policy with the questions you ask. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u77	However, Minister, they do not see any rises in consumers must be the title of the year!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the report is closed. 214-15-2020 question on PPC's business plan. We are returning to the topical and urgent debate. We continue with the first under number 1069/21-9-2020 in the first cycle of the Piraeus MP for the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Ragosi to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "In the three critical trials this year, civil protection proved powerless and accountable. Unique government plan, falsification of reality and the concealment of truth." Mr. Ragosi's timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection, Mr. Nikolaos Chardalias. Colleague, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Madam President. We have tabled this topical question because during this summer, Mr Secretary, there were three - now another one was added to Carditsa, so four major tests for civil protection. Let's see a little about them, too soon, what just happened, what you said and what the truth is. In Evia, which we had eight dead, you claimed expelling, falsely, that you could not send a message 112, because there would be a case if you asked to evacuate, we would have more victims. You also claimed that you had a bad forecast. What's the truth? The truth is that 112 is not only to warn the citizens, the residents of a region to evacuate the area, but also to warn them of the upcoming danger, to advise them to leave underground, of dangerous structures. Also, the truth is that the National Meteorological Service completely disproved you, in writing, like the National Observatory. And not only did he tell you that you had a correct forecast in Evia of the eight dead, but he had given it four days before this heavy natural phenomenon. What did you claim to the Mycenaeans? You said it was a simple fire, 'a little black' the Minister for Culture said, and you have no responsibility for that. What's the truth? The truth is that the Mycenes for the first time in their history were burned, that for this fire we had the worst effects that could cause a fire in the Mycena, because because of the surroundings, with the low vegetation, no further damage could be caused. And the third truth about the Mycenaeans is that you have an absolute responsibility, because there was no fire truck around and near the archaeological site, to intervene as soon as the fire broke out. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For Paros, things are kind of different here. Here you admitted you hid the evidence supposedly so you wouldn't target this island and Antiparos and the other islands for which you hid the evidence. What is the truth, contrary to your allegations? The truth, contrary to your allegations, is that the document from 16 July has been revealed, on the basis of which you had made a central decision and in this direction had guided all health centres, not to give figures per island. And what is also true in this case is that by concealing these elements, you have done far greater harm. You destroyed tourism, you destroyed the economy of these islands and, above all, the worst, Mr. Secretary, you laid the foundations - then you laid the foundations, then the bases came in - to live this dramatic development, in relation to the second wave of pandemic, at this time the Greek society. For Karditsa, we also know the truth, that, in other words, you made four days - and the Prime Minister and all of you - go to visit the drama of the Carditsa people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u80	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u81	I shall conclude, Madam President, immediately. We also know that in state hospitals doctors are actually forced to resign, as happened in the state of Nice. I would also like to end, Madam President, the question - and we know something else - after all this, Minister. That for all this, which, in a proven, valid, documented way, has proved your responsibility, you have not asked for an apology, you have not once done your self-criticism, you have not once said, "Boy brother, yes, we were wrong". Never. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, too. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was really surprised to hear, first of all, and then read Mr Ragosi's timely question a few days ago when it was tabled. I was amazed, both at the unfoundedness of his general references to such serious issues, such as those of the Civil Protection, but also at his only attempt, even today, in his introduction, an effort which I personally find on the limits, Mr Ragosi, the absolute political - and I am sorry to say - at the limits of the small-party stress, to combine from one point of view, rumours, information on the other, the absolute operational ignorance of all those who have drawn up this specific question on the three different incidents and the form of 'Political protection is not only a state's obligation, but also a citizen's right'. Really, now, Mr. Ragossi, do you say that? And when I say, I don't mean you personally, but in general, this party you serve. And there is no argument, simply that it has proved a number of things that are essentially based on information, rumours, comments and publications. Without time, I'm moving on to this. Why didn't we use 112 in Evia, either preventively or repressively? The answer is simple and is based on real data. First of all, we did not have, Mr Ragosi - and I would like you to pay attention to what I am about to say - no one, but official briefing or even warning! - for extreme hazards of a flooding nature. No one anticipated it. I insist, for a extreme flooding phenomenon, what happened the other day with Karditsa and Kefalonia. No one anticipated it. Nobody warned us. And to end with this, because a lot of them have heard, that - allegedly - the EMI and the Observatory had warned us and because more has been said, things have been said as follows: Never, ever, ever, ever, ever, was published by the EMI or even by the European Agency for Missing Hazardous Weather Observations, except for a weather worsening report in an escalation of the classical weather report. Another dangerous weather report, drawn up by the DARDANOS project, provides general reassurance, and the weather worsening report, i.e. strong rainfalls, which are partly prepared. Unfortunately, for those who have rushed to blur the waters afterward and to directly or indirectly blame the Civil Protection for not having done the right thing, the real facts are both relentless and undisputed. In an extreme phenomenon where tons of water per acre exceeded two hundred and fifty, the National Meteorological Service posted a 72 millimeter rain forecast on Saturday, August 8th at 15.00pm. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Citizen Protection, Mr Nikolaos Chardalias, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] I repeat that he posted a forecast of 72 millimeters, i.e. strong rainfall, not extreme weather phenomenon. The next day, Sunday, after the incident, at 13.00 p.m. by e-mail of the authorised and otherwise dear director, she informed the Firefighting about the already rainfall of 212 millimetres. I too am tabling this document. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Citizen Protection, Mr Nikolaos Chardalias, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] The observatory of Athens - and I would like you to pay attention to that by all the honourable Members, who are following the debate today - on the daily rain forecast map of his website, predicted 63 millimeters of rain, i.e. a simple strong storm. I'm filing that, too. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Citizen Protection, Mr Nikolaos Chardalias, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] This forecast remained until Sunday August 9th at 9.20 a.m., after the incident. So it was replaced by magic at that time by a new map, which depicted that the 63 - millimeter rain became 183 millimeters. I'm presenting this to you. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Citizen Protection, Mr Nikolaos Chardalias, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] The conclusions, in relation to those who are very easy to come out on television and say 'we have said so', are yours. However, any explanations will be given very soon and certainly not to me. Finally, the European Commission on floods has never withdrawn any warnings or even a message about this extreme phenomenon. However, was the mechanism prepared? Of course he was prepared. He was prepared for partial readiness, as the 72 millimetres and 63 millimetres that gave the Observatory and EMY were said. By intervening, however, by e-mail of the Civil Protection Directorate, and given that we had fires in the Pioneers area, the Fire Service was partially alerted. It did not set itself ready for the plan, but to a certain extent. And what does that prove to be? Partial guarding was automatically made at 2,47' at dawn, general guard, and this meant a hundred and sixty-four rescues and decays that took place during and during the event. We would therefore not be able to send 112, as we did, respectively, in the case of 'January' and other incidents. We shall now proceed to the essence of the charges you address us. Why didn't we send 112 at the time of the evolution of the phenomenon? And this answer is simple and is based both on international business practice and on common sense: why mission 112 at night in an area that - beware, gentlemen - is without power - I will submit a document from the IEDC - and without power means damage to the network, cut electrical cables in flooded areas, with uncontrolled torrential torrentials, unprinted and residential basements, semi-lands and ground floors on the raft beds and below the sea level, would not save lives, but would create panic. It would lead dozens of our fellow citizens to sure drowning. Night, without power, with uncontrolled torrents in underground houses, the message to go to higher places would lead them with mathematical accuracy outside the house in search of these signs and in death either by drowning or even by electrocuting. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Citizen Protection, Mr Nikolaos Chardalias, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] So, in Evia we had no accurate prediction, we had a general blackout, unchecked winters and scattered underground, semi-globe and ground houses in the stream beds and under the sea level, so we didn't send. In Carditsa we had accurate prediction, pictured watercourses of stable and changing flow and impurities in the land improvement works and houses of overwhelming ground in settlements around the ravages and, of course, we sent it two and a half hours, even before retreating the first block under the weight of the huge volume of water. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Let's go to Paro. No conscious or unconscious concealment of facts existed and I would like to assure you throughout this period, our choice to give the figures, but not to give them per island or region, but per region, is an international practice that you will follow in other countries and a strategy that really does not want to target certain regions. We call it every day. Our decisions on restrictive measures are based on facts and criteria and these are undisputed. We go more specifically to Paros and Antiparos, and I want you to take care of me. From July 14th to August 11th - hold August 11th because it is very important in the case of Paros and Antiparos - we had seventeen inhabitants or workers on the island positive to the coronary. At the same time, from July 31st to August 11th, we had thirty more positive cases outside Paros which were tracked and linked with vacations or visits to the island in the previous days of the disease. Thus, we had seventeen until August 11, and thirty - three people in general, tracked as travelers. On August 12, we had the first alert with an impressive increase in positive cases in twenty-three out of Paros tracked. In other words, from 31 July to 11 August, in twelve days, we had thirty three people and within one day, on 12 August, we had twenty three positive ones. Immediately Paros and Antiparos, based on the protocol, entered an epidemiological observation. In fact, the next day, on 13 August, we also had a second alert with traced cases outside Paros, but connected with holidays, to reach twenty-nine and, indeed, scattered across the country: Nafplio, Florina, Elias, Argostoli, Orestia, everywhere. The same evening the Management Group in Political Protection and in consultation with the Committee of our experts and epidemiologists met as a matter of urgency and given the clear epidemiological multiplier created on the island, the specific measures announced the next day on 14 August were decided and the message was sent and 112. In less than forty-eight hours, we instantly cut the pandemic evolution, which is reflected in statistics. Ten days after the measures were taken, i.e. on 25 August, the average inherited native population decreased to 1.2 persons and non-parent visitors to 10.8, which gradually fell to 2.1 cases by 10 September. So, in an area that so far has made thirty-four native cases and two hundred forty out of Paros - visitors - at the right time we made the right decisions. I see, however, that you are also confronted with a confusion and you are insisting on that, Mr Ragonesi. On the one hand, you are accusing us of not making valid information to the inhabitants of the two islands, and on the other hand, of targeting them by means of emergency measures. I mean, you're actually giving up on us because we didn't target them earlier. We, Mr Ragosisi - with all due respect for me and you know it - have been faithful and self-sufficient in our strategy, not to target areas and islands in the middle of tourist season and only to react when there was a genuine health issue. And our strategy has worked out. Paros and Antiparos have overcome the crisis and remain safe destinations for all of us. Now we're going to the Mycena. There was a big damage that couldn't be any bigger, you say. Memorandum is the ignorance of those who have drafted it for how the fire-fighting and civil protection protocols are in fact working satisfactorily. Why exactly are you blaming us? I'll tell you: To cover the gave of whoever posted on your profile the night of the incident. At 18.00 this afternoon, the Fire Service informed about support and some people thought - and you made a post - that there was a slowdown in relation to the parts that went to help. The aid you refer to at 18.00 is a fire that was delimited despite the strong winds in the first two hours, with the first vehicles reaching thirteen minutes - in the thirteen minutes! - and the first airplane in less than an hour and concerned exclusively hiking sections which would remain all night for fear of refreshing and which would carry out the so-called 'burned heat' so as to close the fire. In Mycenes eight air were sent in, they carried out a hundred and twenty-seven drops over a total flight duration of twenty-three minutes and thirty-three minutes - all eight means - while more than seventy-five vehicles of the city's firefighting, the district, the voluntary teams on a fire that could burn everything in the archaeological site. The fire, Mr Ragosi, left at the beginning, when the first ones arrived within thirteen, fourteen-minute vehicles to the hill, because we chose to set up in front of the museum and the facilities and structures of the archaeological site itself. Mobilisation was immediate and effective and that is clear. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe once again that the state mechanism, as it is clear from the evidence I have submitted, has worked in all three cases on Mr Ragosi's timely question seriously, with responsibility, with a plan and, above all, with a result. Therefore, the objections and references to the timely question are thought to be waste, unfounded, trying to blur water, to hide the real data and, unfortunately, to obtain through these any micro-party or other benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Minister. You have, of course, delayed, but I am sure that from the information you have given, you have also partially answered the next question tabled by Mr Kamines, but that is what we will see when the time comes. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u85	But please be sure of something else, Madam President, that I, too, will now at least have this favor in my remarks. I didn't protest, well the Undersecretary said and spoke as long as he talked. He had to tell his opinion, give whatever evidence he wanted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Comrade, allow me to tell you that you have put too many questions, that the Minister should have answered - and well he did - and I hope he is glamorous...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u87	Yeah, well, I respect, but he put too much evidence into his answers...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u88	Allow me, Mr Colleague, to conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u89	And please, you won't tell me in three minutes to interrupt. He spoke thirteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u90	Allow me. You know I at least don't blame any colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u91	Well, that's just what I was pointing out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u92	The Minister answered all the questions you put. I hope that he will be vivid in his denture and you have to answer some of what the Minister has said to you, hoping that you will not abuse the time, so that we can go to the next question, because we have already been delayed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u93	Good, I'll be as brief as I can. There is no way I can afford three minutes, Madam President. I just wanted to let you know. Mr. Undersecretary, now your decision and it's not just personal, it's obviously a government decision. Here we have three major disasters, three natural catastrophes and Paros as the beginning of the second pandemic wave, not for the island in particular, for all the islands. And you come here today, you have been given an opportunity to actually put forward a little bit of self-criticism, to say, "Yes, son, we will see that we have done it again," and you have not only once again not done what you must do toward the citizens, Mr Hardalia, not to us, but to the end you are asking for the change. In particular, as far as Evia is concerned, I must tell you, too, that what you said was not an answer to us. In fact, Mr. Chardalia, I would like to tell you that I was probably seen as an apologetic record to the prosecutor. What you said is answers to the National Meteorological Service and the National Observatory that, by official notices, they have documented and proved - not us, but those responsible services over your days - that everything you said about Evia is completely false and untrue, because you had a prognosis four days before you had it, but why they did the job again, as they know and as they did all the previous years. Your placement that night wasn't that you didn't send sms, but that you didn't send evacuation sms. You had the forecast and you had to send sms by 112, to warn citizens to leave the dangerous places and you didn't do it. Also, proof of what I'm saying to you - you said it yourself - is the sms that you sent to the Ionian Islands for 'January'. In particular, there you said 'Get out of the dangerous spots', 'Get out of the basement'. You did not send sms to the Ionian Islands for the 'January' that you asked them to leave in general, to enter a process of evacuating their villages. That's the first. Second, I'm coming to the Mycenaeans. Mr Hardalia, I told you something, but you did not notice it because you had already written your first speech. I told you something very specific. I went to the Mycenes, but I don't know if you went. The space environment, because it consists of low vegetation, could not cause a worse fire in the archaeological site than it caused. But I told you something much more specific. I told you there was no fire brigade! And you started to say about tweets at 6.00 p.m. etc. There wasn't even a fire car! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Well, it's time now, Mr. Hardalia, because either you've investigated it and you've been hiding it, or you haven't investigated it, because it didn't bother you, to tell you why there wasn't even a fire-fighting vehicle in the past few years. Because this year in Argolida Prefecture you have been recruiting 50 seasonal fire extinguishers in contrast to all previous years - and here is what I can then give you - which, based on the official announcement of the Fire Service, for the first time did not place a seasonal firefighter in the Municipality of Argos! If there were four seasonal firefighters that were at least in the previous years, there would be in the Mycenaean fire-fighting vehicle that would have prevented the fire in its birth and would not let it spread. Because of course the fire trucks had to come from miles away. As far as Paros is concerned - and I repeat that when we talk about Paros, we are actually talking about the beginning of the second pandemic wave - you said this impressive for me, that it is international practice not to give figures per island. Also, do you know what you were doing next? Do you know what you did for one more time? Now that you have told the truth, you have made public for the first time, in my opinion, all the shocking elements - and I will tell you why I am telling you this - in cases that have been detected, either on the island or on the people who had gone to tourism in Paros. Of the few tests, which you would obviously have done both in Greece and abroad, you mentioned numbers, as eleven in Paros, thirty three since the beginning of August, twenty-three and so on. These are number-sensitive. It is shocking to see the numbers, Mr. Hardalia, which you know as well as I do, because these figures, these incidents occurred in a Greece that recorded daily by the beginning of July almost zero cases. What we blamed you for is this very specific: instead of immediately notifying society, the population, the attendants and telling them that something is wrong here, and that is why we want to warn you to take care to keep distances, especially for Paros and Antiparos, and to avoid situations of confrontation, you have kept them for you and you have come to the end and you have thrown a catapult over these people and the Greek society, because the evil has already been done, since we already had the dispersion of the coronary. But how can you do this, Mr. Chardalia, since you wanted to support all Mr. Mitsotakis' theatrical performance in Santorini? You wanted to support decisions, such as the increase in the completeness of ships. Instead of putting more ships, as the people of the ferry told you, you increased the protocols to 85%. That's why you didn't give that evidence. And proof that it is not international practice, Mr Hardalia - I will give you another document - is the fact that you are now giving figures per island. Now, anyone who comes in to see the daily evidence of EOD on cases won't see a Regional Cyclades section. He'll see Naxos, Paros, Santorini, Mykonos and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u94	You're short, Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u95	I will finish, Madam President. And I shall end without leaving anything unanswered of this, in our view, very serious we have heard today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u96	But I would ask you to do it soon, because your time has already doubled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u97	Yeah, yeah. So please listen to me, so I can tell the diaper the following. It is obvious, Mr Hardalia, that today you have followed the line of Prime Minister Mitsotakis, who came out and told the Greek people that what is happening from now on will be our fault. That was the central theme, that was the central idea of Mr Mitsotakis' speech yesterday. However, the truth is that, for what happens from now on, there will be neither the responsibility of the citizens nor the responsibility of the self-government, which you have targeted not where it really has responsibility, for example the projects that should have been carried out in Carditsa but have not been done, but the management parts of such situations relating to the area of civil protection. Nor, of course, will the opposition, Mr. Hardalia, which has specifically supported you on the issue of pandemic in an unprecedented way for the Greek political things of the country, and you have not felt the need so far either you or Mr. Mitsotakis nor any member of the government to say "thank you" not only in the Anti-Civilism, but in all the parties of the Anti-Civilization for the "plate" they have put on the issue of pandemic. Most of all, however, it will not be us and you and, above all, you and the Greek people together, Mr Hardalia, because it has not been decided by the Greek people in schools at this time that there will be twenty-seven students in every class, with you. The Greek people did not decide six months of pandemic in the country and do not strengthen public transport and conspirate the Greek people and Greek citizens, the workers, who need them and hang like grapes, like tsampia every day. Also, the Greek people did not decide to leave the National Health System with you at all this time and to reach doctors, such as in the State of Nice, to present resignations the other day and to tell us when we went there, because they felt the need, "We do not play any political game and, if you want to tell you the truth, we Mr. Mitsotakis voted." They quit the day before yesterday in the State of Nice. And let me tell you one last thing, Mr. Colleague, and I'll hang up with that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Comrade, please. You've been in eight and a half minutes. Please. No congressman spoke so much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u99	I'm closing this, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Comrade, please. You need to close...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u101	Madam President, the Minister spoke for 13 minutes, I will finish my position...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u102	No, please. You have three minutes and it's eight and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u103	I need another minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u104	You asked him infinite questions, answered and I ask you very much to focus on what you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Chardalias has no problem, just like I didn't. I'll tell you one last thing, Mr. Hardalia. We did not give Mr. Markoulakis the right to go out and write publicly to the Greek people that he thanks the Prime Minister and the Minister of Culture because they violated the orders of the health care and did his will, nor did we go with Mr. Koumoutaskos to take the Divine Society in front of the photographers' flashes or with you, Mr. Hardalia, we bent down on the priest's raes without a mask in front of the cameras. So we neither have nor will we have the responsibility together for what is happening from now on, because as the doctors and experts, Mr. Hardalia, have said, with your decisions you have brought the pandemic two months ago...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Comrade, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u107	...and what is happening now in the country was expected to happen after two months.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u109	So what happens from now on will be your sole responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. You will allow me to say that when an observation is made by the Bureau, it does not become malicious nor does it happen because I want to reduce the time, at least myself, of the Members. There's a process...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u111	You cannot interrupt the Member four times and the Minister once.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u112	Mr Colleague, listen to me, please very much. Let me finish. You are an old parliamentarian and you know the procedure. You asked a very large number of questions to the Minister and allowed him to answer all the questions. I hope that he will be vivid in his denture and will not exceed his time, because there is another colleague who expects his question to be made. Some cannot spend a very long time, and others can speak normally in their time. So, how's it going to be?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u113	He shouldn't have spoken for thirteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u114	Let's not ask him that much questions, Mr. President. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u115	Mr Ragosi, you have asked me three important questions, and they are, if you want, an indication of the uncomfortable answers we have given, that you are actually trying to turn your question into a general debate on the issues of pandemic. No, Mr Ragossi, we will stick to what you have asked us about, about three important facts, and about your statement that the Civil Protection Mechanism, based on the good arguments - which you have written, which I think we have degraded from one point to the evidence we have submitted - demonstrates that the Civil Protection Mechanism has collapsed. That is what you say, Mr Ragosi. You say and write to the question that the Civil Protection Mechanism has collapsed. You say that, representing a particular party. What mechanism has collapsed, Mr. Ragossi? Has the political protection of the country collapsed? It is civil protection that has held the country up all these months against fires, floods, earthquakes, sorrows, the pandemic itself. It is this Civil Protection, Mr Ragossi, which, in time, produced five general emergency plans, the general plan to address the needs of the fires, the general plan to address emergency needs of the flooding phenomena, the first plan to be drawn up in the country, the general plan 'ECELADOS' to address earthquake emergencies, the plan to address emergency needs and also to manage a volcanic event, the general plan for the management of the pandemic and two other plans for the management of technological disasters. It completed all these model plans for the country's Ottawa Otto, to address exceptional needs. It is this Civil Protection, Mr Ragonisi, and you, as an experienced parliamentarian, should know, that completed and operated this famous 112 that you invoked all these months, which accepted three million six hundred sixty-six thousand thirty-seven calls and thirty-three thousand eighty-seven SMSs. It has managed in the last year seventy-four events, activated in time - a record of this multi-composite e-mail - so that citizens' geoenterprise can become not in the area, but a sign, with what this means to the life of the caller and the immediateness and accuracy of the intervention of the survival workshops. The Civil Protection, which you are saying has collapsed, Mr Ragonis, is the one that has secured from European resources - and not from the state corps - 129 million for the renewal of the firefighting equipment of the Ninety-12 firefighting vehicles - you will see it in the next two years - seventy-five million euros for the equipment of the stakeholders, ELAS, the port, the Armed Forces, our voluntary teams, a hundred million for civil protection equipment for all municipalities and all the regions of the country - from your experience you know of the enormous deficits of decades that local authorities have - and more than 750 million for the renewal and strengthening of our home's air-fighting fleet. It is this Civil Protection, which in four months' time and amidst global pandemic has completed implementation - sustainability and technical studies for the construction by PPP thirteen state-of-the-art regional business centres, work that has been approved in the past days by the Interministerial Committee, centres that shield the country and are to be delivered by the end of 2022. It is this Civil Protection that you are accustomed to collapsed, Mr Ragosisi, who has produced the program "SPTIDA", which built one of the most modern business centres and commanding - which is at some point good for everyone involved in civil protection issues to visit, to come, to inform you, to cooperate and to deliver four more state-of-the-art centres by the end of 2021: the Health Risk Management Centre, the Centre for the Prevention and Management of Natural Disasters, the Centre for the Control of Critical Infrastructures and - finally - the Interministerial Centre for Critical Crisis Management. It is this Civil Protection, to come to what you are complaining about, which, since July 1st, has organised a unique mechanism of two hundred eighty and eighty-eighty members of the Firehouse, the ELAS, the Armed Forces, the EGE, at the twenty-seven gates of entry of the country and has carried out four hundred sixteen thousand nineteen thousand samples at three million five hundred eighteen thousand passengers at airports, ten thousand four hundred thirty-six samples at four hundred sixteen thousand entering our land borders, twenty-sixteen thousand ninety-eighty samples at eighty-two thousand visitors in our ports. And that's undoubted evidence. Because it is this Civil Protection - beware - has tracked them since the beginning of the crisis fourteen thousand seventeen hundred fifty one cases and thirty thousand nine hundred two high risk contacts, giving them solitary and ensuring daily conditions for control of this isolation. Because it is this Civil Protection, Mr. Ragosiou, which has been processed since July 4,123,000 plf along with the EVA system team and the high-profile scientist, Mr. Drakopoulos, and checked one by one of their codes at all the airports in the country, coordinating the sampling and completing the mission of hundreds of thousands of samples daily in over 22 laboratories throughout the country, ensuring an average response time for the tests at 26 hours after taking the samples.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u116	Minister, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u117	Because it is this Civil Protection which coordinates and cooperates with the Ministry of Development's interministerial market control unit, the National Transparency Authority, ELAS, the Port Authority, the Regional Services, the Labour Inspectorate for the implementation since 1 July, which has opened up tourism of three hundred and sixteen thousand forty-sixteen checks on compliance with the measures for the whole country. Because that is the Civil Protection Policy that this year, in 2020 - and I want to stay on this because you accused us of the Mycenes - from the start of the anti-nuclear period on 1 May and 31 August it records unique results and records in the fire story in our country. I mention very briefly that while you in 2018 for the same period in a total of two thousand six hundred fires had lost seven hundred and six thousand hectares of woodland, of which forty-seven thousand acres were solid forests, this year, in 2020, in the same period in four thousand fifty-five fires, that is, a thousand five hundred and twenty-three fires over, a 57% increase, we lost fifty-eight hectares, that is, 22% of which - look - only two thousand sixty - were the acres of solid forests we lost. You two thousand six hundred twenty-eight fires, we four thousand fifty-one. You seventy - six thousand acres of woodland, we fifty - eight thousand. You forty - six thousand acres of solid forests, we two thousand. To conclude, I will say that this is not a Civil Protection for collapse, Mr Ragosi. This is the Civil Protection policy that the men and women of the bodies that make up it have never collapsed, have never been afflicted, and have never been afraid, men and women of firefighting, police, the Port Authority, the EKP, our Armed Forces, our volunteers, the EKP units who have now been standing lofty for months, standing tireless night in front of flames, torrentials, earthquakes, standing a wall against this undercover invisible enemy, a global pandemic and lying next to every citizen. It is this Civil Protection that, in the book of the events of recent months in our home country, will have its own unique capital of responsibility, consistency, result and self-determination, in a book that references to you will record memorialism, micro-participation, populism, but also a unique, unprecedented ignorance and absence of any mood to learn from your mistakes and to realise that the security of citizens is a deep patriotic responsibility and not a field of any micro-political approaches and controversies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question under number 1049/20-9-2020 will be discussed in the first cycle of the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "The function of state mechanism during the recent disasters by the cyclone "Janus". Mr. Hardalias' timely question will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection. Mr. Kamine, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like Mr Hardalias to explain to me if I listened well. Referred to the provisions of the EMI. If I understood correctly, there were inaccuracies in the forecasts and also in the observatory. Is that true? If this is the case, what has the Ministry of Citizen Protection done to deal with this very serious phenomenon? Secondly, why is there not yet a regional coordinator in the Ionian Islands? What about the regional operational centres that you announced to us here and which you legislated on? I insist on these issues, Madam President, because we want to make a constructive opposition. This is where I watched a real fight over every scientist. I happened and visited the Ionian Islands, Kefalonia and Ithaca affected. About Karditsa and Phthytida and the other regions, the President went a step in the Movement of Change, too. Mr Kegeroglu was mentioned yesterday very in detail. What did I see in Kefalonia and Ithaca? I saw Agia Evaphilia actually destroyed, I saw her full of mud and stones, and that was a disaster that had already been announced, because you know that they had been flooded in 2019, and all this time, nothing happened. The Holy Euphemia is unarmed and unarmed for the next blow to be taken. It is such a geographical relief that the mistakes made with the wind turbines are such that the Holy Euphemia will have a very serious problem. And there are issues that concern you directly, even though they are not directly related to your Ministry. Do you know that in the municipality of Ithaca there's only one ambulance, which when it's necessary to cross over to Patras or elsewhere they use the mortar? Do you know that in St. Euphemia, which had the fabulous idea of SYRIZA breaking down the Municipality of Kefalonia at three, in the Municipality of Sami, there is essentially only one topographer in a whole department of engineers and people don't know what to do? Minister, I would like to hear your answers to the issues of legislation, the implementation I mentioned to you about the regional services of civil protection, and we will then be talking more closely about what needs to be done in Kefalonia and Ithaca.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor. I hope you'll answer specifically the questions that he's asked you, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u121	I always answer the questions they ask me. It is just when I need a little more time - you understand - that, let alone when it is from Mr Kamine who we have conceived in self-government, and I really believe that every question he asks, whether it is timely, or another question is the result of real anxiety and concern about what is happening. Yes, it is true, Mr Kamine, that the Observatory, the European Mechanism and the EMI have not been able to predict the extent of this phenomenon. We do not blame our scientific staff and our staff for this, because you realise that climate change has brought us face to face with unprecedented situations that too are trying to decode them, to categorise them. I personally doubt the effort that took place immediately after the event showed that we had been notified. We clearly proved this with the documents that I submitted - we were notified of heavy rain, not extreme phenomena, and it was reasonable nonetheless that we could not do things, which we did in the case of Janus. After all, my statement that if we had a different prediction, we would do it differently, I think, from the very beginning, he's been saying everything. On the subject of the regional operational centers, I've answered you. It has already been signed interministerially last week. The regional operational centre of the Ionian Islands will be held in Lefkada. The reason given in Lefkada is because there is a question of centrality, but also because of the possibility it gives us through the terrestrial connection with Continental Greece, it has all the criteria that can be done there. From there on, there are obviously some difficulties in establishing a regional coordinator. I think that in all island complexes there is this difficulty, because the coordinator should be everywhere and he should have the means. But I think it is an issue - from what I have also been informed by the regional authority, which is closely monitored and which we have an excellent cooperation - which will end in the next few days. In relation to what you say about Kefalonia and Ithaca, I come to confirm the chronic pathogens and arrhythmias, which are afflicting in relation to the projects that should have been made and the decisions taken to break the island and which unfortunately are currently experiencing the very beautiful island of Kefalonia. I personally got there. Friday's over. Saturday afternoon I was there. I've been with the mayors. We've recorded everything. As far as the first needs of generators were concerned, within twelve hours they had thirty three generators, which were shared with the municipalities so that we could help them. Obviously, there are issues that you rightly mention. I'm aware of all the things you're saying. The question is this: has the Civil Protection Mechanism done what it was necessary to prevent and on the basis of its protocol in relation to the incident itself? I can assure you and the mayors themselves and the Vice-President can assure you that we have followed all the protocols from the beginning. We sent airborne units to Ithaca and Kefalonia. We've activated all the mechanisms from the first time. Our contact was all over the night. Obviously, it was an extremely difficult situation, but proof that the mechanism was ready is that in the area of Kefalonia and Ithaca it became more than seventy-six rescues and enclosures of people who really risked their lives, Mr Kamine. Especially in St. Euphemia we lived a thriller at 5:00 on Friday with those elderly people who were trapped. There was no access so we could shut them down. The two of them because they were in the water long hours were on the line of hypothermia. However, the mechanism has been mobilised. We didn't mourn anyone dead in a difficult situation. Small arrhythmias that may have been recorded do not come to confirm that the mechanism was not ready. It's not something I call it. I think the mayors themselves, the Vice-President themselves and all those involved can confirm that. Obviously, in every crisis management, there are small issues that need to be weighed down, we need to categorise them. We have to get better. Kefalonia is facing huge problems. The Ionian Islands face huge problems. There is a huge issue with regard to anti-military works. I would remind you that in this Chamber, Mr.4662 was voted on, with any objections on your part, but it paves the way for mayors and mayors with faster procedures not to be lost in the bureaucracy of mechanisms and licences, so that for important works of anti-military, cleansing and other matters relating to civil protection, they can progress quickly. These, Mr Kamine, have been in the CEDEFOP committees and everywhere. The chronic diseases and the arrhythmias that the Greek state has had for decades, we are trying to settle them, demarcate them. Believe me, we have made a leap in this direction in the last few months that we have been trying to put a order on these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u123	I'm holding back what you said about chronic pathogens. We are both former mayors and we have huge experience here, so it is an opportunity in this Chamber to say first of all that the bills announced by the government at the moment are working on one for public procurement and competition, and the other for local government will be bills such that they will finally give a solution to these chronic issues. It is not possible, it is not understood, to have a municipality which has an entire technical service managed by only one topographer. What's your timetable, Minister, for restoring the damage to Kefalonia and Ithaca? Why, while texting citizens' mobile phones, did you not see to it that you mobilise the DEDEN, so that additional workshops have already gone, which you know they need, so that they can immediately start working? You have not answered why there has been this inertia of the region for one year in St. Euphemia to carry out the necessary flooding operations. That was a foretold disaster. The wider region of Agia Euphemia has been declared in a state of emergency since last year and ends in October. I hope this will be renewed, but this time it also has a very specific impact. The port in Ithaca, in Kioni, in Frikes and in Kefalonia, in Agia Euphemia, in Fiskardo and in Asso must be cleaned immediately and in depth. The necessary interventions must be made in Kioni so that the settlement can again be accessible. Same for the coastal front in the freaks. Finally, experience has shown us something very specific. Without electrical current the fixed phone is automatically cut. Mobile phones also work seriously. So it's impossible to coordinate any state mechanism. Mobile telephony companies should therefore be required to broadcast their broadcasters without current for a relatively satisfactory period of time. You have to force this on them, because you know that the mobile phone is essentially the mechanism of every mayor and every regional mayor and every coordinator to be able to do his job. Also, there are indisposed resources from the NSRF and the Ionian Region, which can be leveraging and used for projects, especially in the area of St. Euphemia, where the regional road should take place and be combined with anti-military works. Compensation of 8 000 000 and 5 000 000 should be paid to everyone, but depending on the level of the damage. The damage should be individualised. Why? Because that is what justice is demanding. Agricultural subsidies should be granted as a result of force majeure and the destruction of production or plant and animal capital should not be taken into account. And, of course, to suspend all tax, insurance and credit obligations and to extend the deadlines that expire this year. And of course, there must also be a guarantee of liquidity by the Greek State. But I expect you to talk to me, Minister, about the timetable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u124	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u125	First of all, most of these questions are questions that do not relate to the civil protection policy which deals with short-term rehabilitation. In any case, however, I think that on a number of issues relating even to tax matters or anything else the government has already legislated, and there is already a package of measures and a mobilisation of the whole mechanism of the appropriate ministries, so that we do not get involved in the red tape that has already created a bad impression but also problems for those affected themselves. There are issues which you raise and which have a basis. That is, because in the past year, there has been no flooding in St. Euphemia. Obviously. You know very well that an anti-military, especially such size, needs studies. I therefore believe that any new regional authority should start, if it does not find studies from the previous authority, on a zero basis. I feel and know at least that few studies for the wider region were in a maturation phase. I will not come to apologise or point out to you issues relating to regional planning, municipal planning, and in particular to the state itself and the mechanisms of the Ministry of Infrastructure. But it is certain that all these mechanisms have been mobilised from the start. The Peloponnese Special Public Works Agency immediately and voluntarily and in excess of its defined responsibilities, assisted the services for restoring the impact of natural disasters. In Kefalonia, a step has been taken the next day, with a very experienced head of staff, Mrs Harris, composed of six officials, who are engineers. Also in Ithaca, a step of two was sent, one in the IT industry and one in the engineering industry. If you count on having an engineer in Ithaca, I think he'll be able to help us with this. At the same time, because there was a reference in connection with the workshops, equipment and forces of the DEDO, EKAV, heavy vehicles and machinery of the GES and equipment were in Cylinnamon and Patra on Friday afternoon, within 12 hours. Unfortunately, however, the weather did not allow them to travel from Cylin and Patras until the next day at noon. Hence my direct intervention to reach the island, so that we can provide some first solutions to the needs created. Because you are right to say that when the current falls, other issues arise. And there is not only a question of mobile telephony, it is also a matter of water, because pumps cannot function, so that all this creates a situation which is extremely difficult for the affected. The point is that, despite the extremely difficult situation, the current has been restored in St. Euphemia since yesterday. I know in Asso that today there is an entire operation involving machinery from the Army, the Fire Department, the Region and the Municipal Authority, so that we can restore at least normality in the region. This is a region which has been severely affected by the weather phenomena and which, in fact, you are absolutely right, must be given a comprehensive and more specific planning so that it can return its normality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u126	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-25-S1-commons.u127	With the consent of the House at 12.45 p.m., the sitting on Monday, September 28, 2020, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
