ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Monday 29 June 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 845/22-6-2020 by MP B1' North Athens Department of New Democracy, Dimitrios Kourides, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Promoting the use of bicycles as an alternative way of urban mobility and a means of improving the quality of life of citizens". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 827/19-6-2020, by MP Rethymnon of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The Greek Government does not support the plan of the World Health Organisation (WHO) for universal and equal access to medicines and vaccines against the new krone." 3. The question by number 832/19-6-2020, by MP Halkidiki of the Change Movement, Apostolos Pana to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Insufficientness of EKAB rescuers at the Cassandra Halkidiki Health Center”. 4. The Question by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Health on the subject: "No ninety workers of the "Agia Sophia" Children's Hospital must be fired. 5. The question under number 825/19-6-2020 by MP B1' North Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kleonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'Removal of artistic courses from the secondary education curriculum'. B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 846/22-6-2020 of the Greek Parliamentary I Athens of New Democracy, Mr. Fotinis Pipilis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Integration of the Canyon of Neda and other treasures of the country's water wealth into a protective regime". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou, Member of the Radical Left, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Magnesia's toxic air'. 3. The 835-26-2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "To return to single places the functions of the clinical functions of the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PAGNI) which were scattered due to a coronary and to be strengthened by medical personnel". 4. The Question No 839-26-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The recognition of the single and undivided postgraduate degree". 5. The question, under number 829/19-6-2020, was raised by the Member of Parliament from East Attica, Mera25 Mr. Maria Apatzidis, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Annulment of tolls in the unequal hubs of Varymbobi and Agios Stephanos". 6. The 847-26-2020 topical question by the First Vice-President of Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Television Megalopolis". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question under number 842-22-6-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Direct resolution of the problems faced by students at the University of Western Attica by conducting the examination." 8. Under number 831/19-6-2020, a topical question by Piraeus V.Piraeus, Mr. Fotinis Bakadammas, Minister for Culture and Sport, on the subject: "In the air, the program "Eleusina Cultural Capital 2021". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House in writing: ‘We hereby inform you of the topical and urgent questions under parliamentary scrutiny on Friday 26 June 2020 that the timely questions to be debated are as follows: Questions Nos 6203/5-2020 and 6231-6-5-2020 pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis. The Questions Nos 838-26-2020 and 841/22-6-2020 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Apostolos Vesiropoulos. Question No 844/22-6-2020 will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Eleftherios Economou. The question referred under Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domna - Maria Michailidou. The question referred under Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Ioannis Kefaliannis. Finally, Question No 848/22-6-20 will be answered by the State Secretary to the Prime Minister, Mr Stylianos Pechas. The following topical and urgent questions will not be discussed: The Question No 840/22-6-2020 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Kommunist Party of Greece Mr Yiannis Delis. Secondly, Mr Giannis Delis' question to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. And thirdly, the Question No 843/22-6-2020 by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Theodoras Jakris to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. And after consultation, the Question No 830/19-6-2020 will not be discussed by MP Larissa of the Change Movement Mr.Evangelias Liankoulis to the Minister of Citizen Protection. These questions will either be redefined or not discussed. So we shall begin with the first question that the Deputy Minister will answer to the Prime Minister, Mr Stylianos Petsas. This is Question No 848/22-6-20, the fourth time-limited question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Stylianos Petsas, on the subject: "Stop of Ms.Boura's show at ERT". Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u2	Minister, I will go into this because I think you know it, although today would be an opportunity to talk about three issues: it would be an opportunity to get the list, to submit it to Parliament. The second would be to talk about how ERT treats parties. Unfortunately, we will come back as a parliamentary group and come to see you. And the third is for Mrs Bourra, which is very much related. I'm going straight to the point so we don't hide. Mrs Bourrara was, and she has been, a journalist who has been operating for many years at the ERT, and today I am not just saying my name. I came here because, for Mrs Bourra, the KKE, SYRIZA, the Change Movement and the ESA, and many New Democracy MEPs, who understand that they did not write a letter for good reasons. And while this show has been working, in fact, in antidemocratic terms, the administration of ERT, on the occasion of the Coronary case, has cut off the show. And while he said there is no long-term possibility of creating another, he brought others. Look, it's never been cut off in this process before. This was done by the previous administration of SYRIZA and we said that another government will now come to behave differently. It is not possible for Mr Julias and Mr Kafarakis - if I say so well, it is interesting for that name - to behave in this way. Inadmissible. Minister, what did Mrs. Bourray not do well? Since there are all these procedures. She didn't do her job well? Is the new show here and it tore up in the numbers? Because I have the numbers on the new show. What's up? What happened? Why did that happen? Is it because she was a candidate in the European Parliament? But there are so many candidates who have emissions to the ERT. I would like to say to you, Mr President, because I do not see it as an interest in the administration of ERT, I think it is more personal to intervene in order to restore justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. When I discussed the government's programme statements in this Chamber, I said that one of the government's objectives, in terms of my portfolio, is to restore confidence and shield the independence of public television, always with respect for taxpayers' money, to ensure pluralism and the quality of its programme. In this context, the administration of the ERT makes the television programme as best possible by exploiting all its human resources, as well as its journalistic staff, as well as the rich material at its disposal, through its cooperation with EBU and Europe by Satellite. Under the number 611/17-1-2020, the decision of the Director-General for Information, which has been posted to “DIAGIA”, had approved internal production of nine ‘Europe’ incidents, which were to take place in the period from 18-12020 to 14-3-2020, as was indeed the case. I am referring to the show, in which ERT journalist Evangelia Bora hosted guests from whom she received interviews on European issues. According to my information, when the incidents approved and taking into account its experience in the field of European affairs have been completed, a proposal was made to Mrs Bourrain on two things: firstly, to participate in a new programme entitled 'Acting in Europe', covering the part of interviews with MEPs, as well as in the previous 'Europe' programme and, secondly, to participate in the news reports on the subject of major European issues. In this regard, and according to the relevant information from the ERT Directorate-General responsible, it was designed to produce an information broadcast entitled ‘Actions in Europe’, which would be directly and validly conveying all developments from Europe. The broadcast is not limited to interviews in the studio but also includes reports, as well as direct contacts from correspondents, which only ERT has, in many European cities which are naturally at the heart of the events. The first episode of the 'Acting in Europe' show was raised last Saturday, 20 June, that is, the day after the European Council meeting held through a teleconference and in which the leaders of the European Union discussed the issue of the Coronary Recovery Fund and the European Union's new long-term budget, and continued work on relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom and on the implementation of the Minsk Agreements. The show contained videos in direct links to Brussels, Strasbourg, The Hague, Berlin, Paris, while experts and MEPs participated in the studio. I repeat that Mrs Bourrain had been asked to participate in this show and the information I have received from the ERT has not responded, at least not yet. I do not understand, therefore, how one might think Mrs Bourrah was wronged, when, as I said before, her ERT has proposed to participate in the new programme. I think, Mr Constantinople, ladies and gentlemen, that we can agree that the selection of emissions should not be based on their political position. The ERT administration plans to best serve its purpose, i.e. the provision of public service broadcasting, the contribution to the information, education and entertainment of the Greek people, by drawing up and emiting its broadcasting and web content only from the relevant provisions of the Constitution and the current legislation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u6	Minister, I fully agree that the ERT cannot be chosen according to the parties' attitudes and choices, of course it is not the opposite, that is to say, to cut off those who have a different party option. Because that's what happened here. Look, Minister, I did not want to go into this, but because you said 'on the basis of your information', do you want me to read a message from the Director-General, see what this information is about? He says the message: "Hey, good morning. I spoke to him and he explained that in the short term - that is 15 May - he is planning a special programme for the European Parliament. And after 20 days, did the show come out? Do you want me to give it to you? Is this ERT command? Is it management based on what you said? No, Minister. I'm sorry to tell you, no. And I'm telling you, you know my course and the whole process. He can't do that. He was mocking ERT's administration and he acted against Mrs. Bourra with hatred. In fact, I will tell you, because you need to have a complete picture - and I take responsibility. Mr. Kafarakis vis-à-vis Mrs. Bourras acted inappropriately, aggressively. You say "on the basis of the information" and you did very well, but he can't tell you that he had been consulted when a CEO message says on May 15, "short" and after 20 days, the show comes out. But how does that work? Have we started the old ones? How's it going? And you want me to tell you? Of course, there's one thing. Five candidates of another party have broadcasts, one candidate was cut. There is no other broadcast that was cut in the middle of this whole process, Minister. It's the only show that got cut. I'd expect it to go in September. I would expect someone not to say good words, MEPs of the JRC, the SYRIZA, the Change Movement, the ESA. Talk to your MEPs. But how can this ERT administration behave like this? Will you take responsibility for Mr. Kafarakis? Uh, no. I do not think it should be done, Minister. The way you treat someone, you can kick him out, you deceive him, make him not by a mayor, but treat him in such a way that he can't sit at the same table. You, Minister, must not allow this to happen. I urge you to ask the ERT administration to find a solution based on data rather than on personal or political assessments. Of course, without political assessments. I ask you to change the data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. The ERT administration will operate independently, will form its programme on the basis of and the programming statements we have made here in Parliament and on the basis of the debate we had when the new administration was placed in the committee responsible. It is therefore not my job to shape the ERT programme but its administration, which is judged on the basis of the plan that it has submitted and the objectives and results it brings. As far as Mrs Bourrah is concerned, I do not understand why anyone who has a show should have this show for life. The ERT administration considers this to be the case on any other channel. I think everyone understands that the administration determines which broadcast is part of its programme on the basis of its design and is of course judged, as I have said before, on the basis of the outcome. As I know Mrs Bourrara has been recruited since 1 November 2006 as a journalist at the ERT and continues without any alteration and no change in her contract. Also, the terms of the contract are not overthrown since the episodes of this broadcast, as I have told you, have been completed. Changed the design of the project, proposed that Mrs.Bura be involved and not responded yet. We will therefore expect to see how Mrs Bourrara's response to this proposal will evolve and from there on ERT determines the programming of its emissions. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr Minister, and Mr Constantinople. We now move on to the debate of the first under No 844/22-6-2020 topical question by Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou on the subject of "Extensive and unjustified police violence in the gathering of a protest about the air pollution at Volos". The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer. Mr. Micopulus, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, on Saturday 13-6-200,000 citizens of all ages, including families with children and elderly people from Volos mainly, but also from other cities in Greece, participated in a protest against the burning of garbage by "AGET-LAFARGE" and against the creation of a SRF plant by Volos Municipality. The march towards the GAGET plant was peaceful with slogans against combustion, symbolic banner and microphone protest. This peaceful and mild climate of protest has been tanned by a peculiar zeal of EL.AS police officers. outside the factory, where they were lined up in platoons on both sides, they made extensive use of chemicals and pushing people into the nearby small beach. In this suffocating climate of tension and panic, the MAT plaques indiscriminately chased, beaten and proceeded to arrest, with enough to end up in the hospital and several to be brought in. For example, parents ran to escape and protect their frightened children who were lost in the cloud of chemicals. Subsequently, the platoons attacked a world that returned to the city with perch - flash flare flares and served on a new hunter in the streets of the city. On the same day, a small crowd of people gathered outside the Police Directorate of Magnesia to report precisely these incidents and to ask for the defendants to be released. The recital of this violence also continued on the pretext of preventing entry into the police building. In fact, in order to understand the absurdity of the settling scene, passing on to his car, resident in this particular area, because he simply asked what happened, he was attacked, and he was beaten, breaking a man of the platoon MATs the shield on him. The very same scene of arbitrariness was repeated the next day outside the courts of Volos, where before the incidents even occurred, a young man was beaten by the police forces. On the basis of the incidents I have mentioned, Mr Minister, three simple questions arise. The first is: have the police forces received relevant orders for such widespread use of chemicals and such violence in order to suppress this gathering of protest? Has the SAD been ordered, Minister? And if so, we'll know if we'll ever know her findings. And a simple question: Are there any measures, any desire from the Ministry of Civil Protection not to repeat concrete scenes and facts, which do not honor neither the Ministry of Civil Protection nor the Greek Police itself?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u11	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the primary aim of those who are involved in the public debate must be to investigate events and facts thoroughly so that we can obtain an overall picture before we make any public position. This aim should accompany any responsible public intervention aimed at investigating actions or any omissions of state institutions on the sole basis of full and objective information from citizens. It is our duty to serve the truth, as we do so in order to shield social peace and democracy. So let us come to a brief and precise illustration of what happened Saturday, June 13 - afternoon hours - to Volos. Outside the General Hospital of Volos, some four hundred people were gathered in order to make a protest march towards the LaFARGE plant, the old Volos plant, RTF, SRF and other waste fuels, against the creation of a SRF plant, but also against the overall policy of the local municipal authority. A few hours later, about fifty people of the anarchist-anti-detective space with covered features were extracted from the course of more than a thousand people and unnecessarily attacked with paints and stones in the forces of the Greek Police. Ten of them, trying to get into the factory, wounded with a bat in the head by the chief of the Magnesia Police Directorate, the second deputy director in the palm, and another sergeant in the face. Evidently, in the face of this situation, there have been forms of support to restore order. Around nine o'clock at night and while protesters were removed, Greek police forces were again attacked by the abovementioned group of extremists, the consequence of which was to be forced to use chemical means, always in the context of prudent and rational management of the existing situation. Nine people were prosecuted, two were arrested, and another person was sought, as his arrest was not possible at that time. The violation of the blockage of the above-mentioned individuals continued as late at night with a re-engagement of support to the incumbents and arrested outside the Mannesian Police Department's Palace, in view of the presentation of one of them before the Prosecutor's Volos the next day. On Sunday, June 14th, a group of thirty people had gathered in the Congregation of Lawmakers Volos as a sign of solidarity. One of them approached the police, forcefully demanding the release of the prisoner. His violent and threatening behavior led the policemen to charge him, while shortly afterward he was released. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise emphatically that, until 19 June, no case of civil injury has been reported to the relevant services of the Greek Police, the General Hospital of Volos or the EKAB. On the contrary, five police officers were injured, two of whom were hospitalized as a result of the above incidents. The Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office ordered a preliminary examination by the Volos Security Directorate for further investigation of any criminal offences or evidence, while a preliminary administrative examination has been ordered concerning the injuries of the police and the incidents in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u13	Here, Mr. Meikopoulou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much. Minister, you have read me a report that is inaccurate. First of all, I would like to inform you, because I myself was present at the peaceful - I repeat - concentration of people, that they were not four hundred fifty people outside the hospital of Volos, they were about three thousand people of all ages and of all political colours. And I stress this, so that you don't think it was some moving protest that had strong party features. The second - to prevent you - is that we are opposed to the doctrine of 'law and order', confronting a very simple form, believe in the intact link between security and social peace. And social peace, Mr Economou, is not guaranteed when you cannot isolate yourself as a police force, as a police force, a small group of people - ten, fifteen in number, no more, Minister - and on the contrary you do an extensive drop of chemicals and shine grenades within the main trunk of the course, where - I repeat - there were about two thousand people of all ages, elderly people who were trapped on the beach. Mr. Economou, have you not seen the video of the elderly woman who's been looking for her children in the crowd of chemicals so far? What did the police forces throw, Mr. Economou? Pudra did they fire the protesters? Chemicals were thrown. Does the Greek police, in other words, in 2020, have the operational capacity, the operational maturity, to isolate the fifteen people causing the incidents each time? Obviously, we also condemn the injury of the police officers and the chief police director. But is that the point? The essence, Mr. Economou, is that three thousand people were broken up, because ten, fifteen people could not be isolated from the Greek Police itself. Do you know what the second ironic is, Mr. Economou? Many policemen in Volos live the consequences of burning alternative fuels themselves, as well as the possible construction of a CRF plant. These same people who work for the Greek Police have so far suffered the consequences of the gas pollution in the region and have exactly the same anxiety. And at such a gathering that people demanded their right to breathe fresh air, the same world drowned in chemicals. You, Mr. Economou, what do you think? Does it provide an honor for the Greek Police, but also for the orderly favoured state, to be dragged by a young citizen outside the courts in the Liberty Square, to be beaten, then taken to the police station and torture him? They wouldn't give him water to drink a drop. That's what he denounces and the parents of this man. Thirdly, does he look for honor to the Greek police but also to the favoured state, being beaten by the police address, because he just asked 'what's going on here, guys?' Nikos Hadjiantonius from New Ionia had his car parked a little longer and was beaten because he just asked what was going on. They even answered that curiosity killed the cat. Do these incidents, Mr. Economou, show favorable and coordinate state? And I ask you, what do you think of the operational planning and the behaviour of the police forces in all these cases I mentioned? Moreover, I ask you, what is the constitutional role of the police? Protecting the citizen or every industry, Mr. Economou? And for these incidents I'm telling you, do you come and tell us here today that they weren't denounced anywhere? So, there's no videos? So, all these people who report these incidents, most of whom have nothing to do with anarchist spaces and are professional people, lie, Mr. Economou?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u15	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Mikopoulos, I have carefully studied the evidence and the way in which the events unfolded on the 13th and 14th of June in Volos in your timely question are presented. You will allow me not to adopt your view, because this would be in favour of the wrong and misleading perception which is reflected in your question, of a concept that identifies the inhabitants of a city, who practice the constitutionally guaranteed right of peaceful protest, with individual and extreme behaviours of some who have once again attempted to disturb the daily life and well-being of the city under the cover of the anonymity that gives them the peaceful protesting crowd. Also, of course, I will not adopt the divisive concept, which wants them, the citizens of a society, to be faced with them, and with the women and men of the Greek Police who are doing their mission on a daily basis with self-determination and professionalism. Moreover, such a conception is disproved by investigations carried out and reflect the consistently high level of public confidence towards the Greek Police. The image you describe is peculiar. On the one hand, you describe a peaceful crowd of citizens with their families, and on the other, an angry police force, which attacks them with severe and extreme violence. This picture, then, has nothing to do with reality! Allow me to describe the information you make public as absolutely inaccurate. As I said in detail in my first place, we had a multitude of about a thousand people in the full development of the event that was indeed peaceful. In this crowd of protesting civilians there was an inoculation of about a hundred and fifty people, extremists, who intended to collide with the police and create turmoil at Volos. They attacked the police force, and, indeed, not only with stones as usual but also with bats. I'm reporting from the official evidence that three policemen and two senior officers were violently hit. These were repelled by the present power using chemicals. These are the petitions and, indeed, the prosecutor's orders. In addition to this, and with regard to your questions, we are not going to allow extremist groups to create unrest conditions. I also want you to know that never - not only from the political but also from the natural leadership of the Greek Police, but also from any operational officer who coordinates measures - is given no mandate for excessive force or for excessive use of tear gas. Police forces also know that any excess or misuse of power is punished. Judicial proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions and penalties imposed. In this case too, as I have said, an oral preliminary administrative examination is under way. It has been trying lately in the public debate to create a climate, that police excesses are constant, that the brutality of police officers and their hatred for fellow humans is their physical situation. This climate is completely unfair to the police, and targeting is absolutely ideological. The police's priority is to ensure the lives and property of the citizens. This means, among other things, that the various extremist groups will not find the scope to create a scene of terror and anarchy in any region of the country. The orderly state guarantees social peace and prosperity throughout the country. This is our duty and mission as a ministry, but also as a police force.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. We now go to the fifth under number 6203/5-2020 to question the question of the circle of petitions from the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Nikolaos Srmmarleniou, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Supporting new businessmen with CAR tourist professions'. Will the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs answer Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis' question? Here you go, Mr. Armachyn, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, at the beginning of May we had a question about supporting young entrepreneurs and in particular tourism workers, with special reference to the Cyclades. In this question you, as a ministry, did not answer and we had to turn it into a timely one. It goes without saying that this year the prospects for the tourist season are being deleted at least ruthless, with what this may mean to thousands of entrepreneurs and workers. Already, ELSTAT's first elements are extremely worrying, and they are also heard by official remission rates for the second quarter of 2020, of 16%. Our question concerns, in particular, young entrepreneurs and the self-employed - obviously also workers to them - who are or have been last in their first steps, to set up their business and to stand by. To date, they have been treated by the government from minimal to zero, since they are businesses, which, at the beginning of the pandemic, have been found with few torques and without workers. They are many of the ones that closed in October 2019 and will be opened again in May 2021. These enterprises obviously stay out of funding. The Ministry of Tourism stated unresponsible and threw responsibility at the Ministry of Development, which responded to us by quoted the well-known financial instruments, which are all loans and no non-refundable aid. The question, therefore, to you and the Ministry of Labour, is this: in view of the two OAED programmes, which were launched under the rule of SYRIZA, that is, the 'Superior Business Opportunities Programme' aimed at five thousand former self-employed unemployed and the 'Supervision of Self-Employment' programme, which was directed at ten thousand unemployed, which was already overtaken by the applications, you intend to extend these programmes or possibly increase their budget? Are you planning on any new programs that meet the new emergencies that emerged from the pandemic? The situation, Minister, is grim and the protests from the food and tourism sector remain unanswered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, you are asking a timely question, which, let me tell you, is inappropriate in the sense that you tabled it on 5 May. Today we are at the end of June and there have been many important events, many important contributions by the government, which have already answered the questions you have raised in your question. Mr President, I should like, on the occasion of this question, to reply specifically to my dentistry, for the programmes which, in order not to be misinterpretation, continue and are supported by the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour - because my own constituency is a region which is mostly mentioned in tourism, as is the entire island Greece, as is the case in all Greece - and an important part of our country's gross national product comes from tourism, to note that this is why pandemic and the effects throughout the world economy, but also in our country, will have a negative impact on GDP, precisely because of our connection with tourism. So the Cyclades - my constituency - and the whole tourist world will suffer this damage because of the pandemic. The government, however, did not stay with its hands crossed, nor did it simply become a spectator of a situation that was seen to evolve in front of it. It also worked to protect people's lives, set health as a top priority, but we also developed policies - a multitude of interventions, a package of interventions - both from the Ministry of Finance and from the Ministry of Development and from the Ministry of Labour to support, at the same time, not only the businesses, for which you are asking, but also the workers and businesses. In reply, which you received from the Ministry of Development, which is responsible for responding to support for enterprises, you saw a large number of eight financial instruments, which supports firms in this case. It is not only the eight financial instruments that you have received in response. There are other policies that will be developed in the next period. It is, however, an opportunity for me to inform the House that, since yesterday, social tourism or "Tourism for All", a pioneering programme, which began in 2013 at the Ministry of Labour, a programme that really supports our tourism, but especially this year will be a strong pillar of tourism support in the country, through the painful process of reducing tourism, due to its pandemic and impacts. In particular, since yesterday, all interested parties have been able to apply through the OAED to get this valuable offer package from the Ministry of Labour, from OAED, to take a cheap, better and quality holiday this year. We extended the social tourism budget from EUR 10 million to EUR 30 million - we tripled it - so the beneficiaries this year will be three hundred thousand. At the same time, we have all fourteen thousand jobs of benefit, not covered by the last year's programme. We therefore have a package of four hundred and fourteen thousand of our Greek fellow citizens and the unemployed who can benefit from this offer this year on behalf of the state and, at the same time, through the use of this package to strengthen businesses. This is the first time, Mr Armalene, since you too, from the Cyclades, which the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour decided to activate the ferry tickets within the package in this package. In other words, those who choose islands this year - something I too urge as an islander - for their choice and use of the social tourism package, also have a great discount on ferry tickets. This is a strong incentive to participate in the social tourism programme. In my dentistry, I'm going to talk about these programs. Let me just one little mention. Already for the world of tourism it is known that from 1 June 2020 to 30 September 2020, the state gave it the opportunity for all workers who had the right to re-entry under existing legislation to enter a contract of employment, not to lose their place. What does that mean indirectly? That we support businesses, because we are dismantling and reducing the non-wage and wage costs of businesses, because on this suspension of the contract of employment, which is maintained in full over these four months, we add as a state and the insurance contributions, which we fully cover. On this occasion, an interpretative directive was issued by the Ministry of Labour, in which we say all the details, according to which, if seasonal hotels do not open up - I repeat, they do not open up because a confusion has been created - then workers on their own can, through the 'ERGAN' system, apply for the suspension of the contract of employment. I repeat: on their own, without the hotel's request. If hotels open up - whenever they open - within the four-month procedure, it is obliged, as a hotelier, to submit to the "ERGANI" the workers' data to them, to suspend them, but at the same time to the worker. So, Mr. Colleague, we're trying to get a full cover for all the workers. Because they come in and ask questions what happens after that, we take initiatives. We are not completing workers' protection tools there. We are here and we are observing the evolution of the phenomenon. Now, in front of us is the challenge of tourism, as much as possible to magnify the influx of tourism into our country and at the end of the process of the tourist season, we will reposition and make new decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Symblene, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u22	Minister, I understand what you said positive that the OAS programmes will continue. But, basically, you have not responded to this, but you have responded on behalf of the Ministry of Development, and you have told us about the well-known financial instruments, which I told you are all loans and you have referred to social tourism. I would therefore like to say to you this: I was in Gia the other day - in Kea - and the accommodation owners told me for word: 'We are not beneficiaries of social tourism, because we do not have the keys...' - that is, the accommodation is not entitled - '... which is just the hotels'. One is that. The second is that, to get into the payback program - in the second - they had to have cash machines. You tell me, which accommodation companies have cash registers on the islands. You know islands. All these years together, we've been running parallel to the Cyclades. You know very well what's going on. However, I would like to say something about the programmes. On 27-1-2020 you launched the pilot project to support job support for unemployed young people eighteen to twenty-nine years of age" amounting to EUR 43 million. This programme was designed in SYRIZA to finance investment projects and to support training and counselling. The purpose was to finance the participants' investment projects after they were drawn up and the advisory services were made. There is no commitment, however, to the programme, as you have set up it, to assist them in the investment projects of the participants. So how does this program work? When they are trained and trained, will there be another programme in which those who are in the process of implementing the investment projects be able to participate? Why has this differentiation been made between training and training? Why have you finally led 60% of those who had applied to leave the programme? Because when they know that of these 43 million people, a large proportion will only go to counselling and training, it is clear that the direct beneficiaries will be too late to take part in this aid. In the end, is your purpose of subsidising investment projects or training and training? How much of the EUR 10,000 for a year or EUR 17 000 for eighteen months will they go to the beneficiaries to set up a business? The press release and the invitation you made is unclear so that it is not possible to see how much money goes where. How are these 43 million finally distributed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u23	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Following the position of my colleague, I would like to say that the questions which he put in his current question are more directed to the Ministry of Development and less to the Ministry of Labour. However, I should like to welcome you on the basis of the possibilities to answer your questions and which do not concern the Ministry of Labour. However, in the Department of Labour and because, firstly, you asked me what programmes we are planning in the next few weeks, I would like to inform you that next week - in time - we consider that the first applications will be made - as the whole framework has been returned - to the public employment for thirty-six thousand workers in municipalities and regions. So it begins this great programme of socially beneficial work, which is very important and is becoming very important for this year due precisely to the problems we have. Secondly, the next time the programme begins for tens of thousands of people with long-term unemployment and unemployment and two thousand, unemployed, who are deported and disabled for the very next period. In the next two weeks, it starts. On the second business opportunity programme of five thousand unemployed, formerly self-employed, in order to re-entry them into the labour market, we know that it remains open and interested parties can apply for interest on the OAED website. The purpose of the programme is to reinstate the labour market of five thousand unemployed, formerly self-employed, who had ceased their business. At the same time, they are given the second opportunity to create businesses and re-activate themselves in business through the creation of a new entity. At the same time, the following new programmes are being launched by the OAED: The youth grants of up to thirty-nine to six thousand higher education graduates in smart-skilled and productive sectors, as well as business grants for employment of fifteen thousand unemployed between the ages of thirty and forty-nine. In addition, there is the 'current' grant programme for the first hiring of employees by young people and enterprises of between 30 and 30 years of age engaged in a regular economic activity, the grant programme for enterprises and general employers for employment and the training of tens of thousands of beneficiaries for reintegration into the labour market, as well as the employment grant programme for a total of fifteen thousand unemployed over 40 years of age. In addition, "run" means the enterprise grant programme for the employment of ten thousand unemployed between eighteen and twenty-nine years of age with emphasis on graduates of university and technological establishments and the grant programme for enterprises and employers for the employment of two thousand unemployed, disabled persons, small and medium-sized enterprises, deported from addictive substances, deported, young offenders or young people at risk and the ergonomic adjustment programme for the workplace for persons with disabilities for 50 persons. The government faces the adverse effects of the health crisis on the labour market and the national economy with targeted moves and substantial interventions at all times within the country's budgetary capabilities. In any case, we assess the new data, we reassess the needs of society and the labour market, and we are always on the side of the worker.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Minister. Thank you, Mr. Armachin. We move to the fourth with number 6231-6-5-2020 a question of the circle of petitions - questions by the Member of the Heraklion Movement of Change, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Increasing minimum wages'. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Before I go to the question, I would like to highlight the Minister's inaccuracy which said that social tourism programmes were supposedly created in 2013. The programmes were, in fact, created to improve the standard of living of workers and started on the basis of employee assistance at the Workplace Organisation. I do. for the truth. In the Minutes of the House, the 2011 programme of the Labour House, which concerns five hundred thousand - I stress, of 2011 - and today, with the crisis we have, we have a lower programme that does not meet the needs. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above programme, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But I come to the question, so that we can see what the government's policy is in relation to workers' pay. Our understanding says that growth, wealth production should go hand in hand with social justice and the benefit of workers. Our view says that the social partners, entrepreneurship, on the one hand, workers and, on the other, the state, of course, in a wider social understanding, must determine this wealth sharing, in a way that is not really driven by the one-sided logic of profit, but by social benefit. So here comes the issue of how to determine the minimum wage. Of course, during the time of the crisis it was necessary for the state to have a stronger role and for the conditions to be created so that this restoration could gradually take place. In 2013, a law was passed which essentially identifies the way in which the State determines the minimum wage. New Democracy, which was then recommended by this law that we voted on, then said it was a transitional period, precisely to deal with the situations that existed due to a crisis. This law, of course, had to be implemented since 2016. But accession to the third memorandum led to the deferral of this law, which was implemented once and while in 2003 the basic salary was about EUR 550, in 2009-2010, it was EUR 750, we have now reached the point that it is almost above what was in 2003. We've been talking for seventeen years. Our conception therefore says that we should finally, regardless of what the State wants to define as inferior, have the power of society, namely the social partners - workers and employers - to assess, on the basis of the needs of workers and the standard of living, but at the same time, on the basis of the possibilities of companies, what the minimum wage should be. This is, of course, under the approval of the Minister, otherwise, in the sense that the National General Association of Labour Convention, which includes this agreement, is finally adopted by the Minister. So what we are asking is for us to see whether the government, which happens to have a liberal perception of the market, not just in relation to politics, which is in the name of the free economy, etc., will continue to have State intervention on the issue of minimum wages, or will it allow the social partners to discuss, calculate and agree on this matter? This is our question, above all, and not limiting the issue of the arbitrary postponement, which has been given and explained to previous questions by the Minister why they have postponed it. The institutional part is more of interest to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u27	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu has completely escaped his timely question. I have in my hands the timely question, which weights at the end and at the end of this question, not what he said in general on the issue of minimum wages and its structure today, on the basis of today's legislation, but starts to say about how to deal with the collapse of full employment, how to deal with the forms of flexible forms of employment, how to see an increase in unemployment. It's completely different from what he said in his prototype. In any case, however, I am here and with the experience of the 2012-2014 past I am obliged to restore truth and reality. For me what I have heard from Mr Kegeroglu is equivalent to the words'return to the past'. I say this, Mr President, because the way in which the minimum wage in our country was calculated, I find myself totally opposed, as far as the past is concerned, to the fact that the real facts, which no one has ever taken into account, namely the possibilities and strengths of the economy, have not been put in place. This has resulted in arbitrarily calculating the minimum wage, not taking into account either the strength of the economy or the level of unemployment - in order to calculate and take account of workers - neither the level of wages nor the level of living nor the productivity of labour. And for decades in our country it has been operating in an environment and the result of the minimum wage, and the way it was calculated, eventually led to the undermining of the workers themselves. This was seen when the crisis in which the labour market seemed to collapse. It was one of the factors that was responsible for the way in which unemployment was escalated and unemployment in our country, because the framework through which the mechanism at the time had been established to shape the minimum wage personally and politically I think it was in the wrong direction. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] What did we do in 2013? In 2013, Mr. Kegeroglu was also in the Ministry of Labour - we brought a new mechanism, a reform, which changes the data in the context of the minimum wage formation. It makes it fairer, more transparent, more specific, more effective, Mr President. And I'm glad that when SYRIZA took over the government, even though he had promised when he brought the minimum wage bill here from this Step, SYRIZA voted against it and left the Chamber calling all the trade unions outside and committed to abolishing the mechanism, he kept it. He did well and kept him because he saw in practice that this mechanism is to the benefit of workers and the economy. And indeed, I agree that this mechanism would bring the minimum wage to an increase on the basis of programming that existed, not in 2016, on 1-1-17. SYRIZA has delayed the evaluation and brought election evaluation from the partners, who are identified in the mechanism's environment, to give this particular increase to the minimum wage. I want to repeat - because it is crucial and I do not have time to do so - that this mechanism, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr President, incorporates instruments of practices which were missing from the Greek reality and which were adopted by Europe, as I shall say in my second language. So he comes for the first time and what does he say? When they decide on the minimum wage, which is very important for the country's competitiveness, for the productivity of the country, I ask the Bank of Greece to tell me the financial data. I'm asking the DPRK to tell me the same thing. I'm asking IOBE to tell me the same thing. I ask ELSTAT to describe what the country's economy is, to see what an increase we can give. And, of course, I also ask the social partners, all of them, from their scientific staff, to make their suggestion of minimum wages. So where is the consultation absent when the social partner actually comes to work and suggests a minimum wage? And then the state comes through the chairman of the FIFG, who is the committee, which operates in early 2020 and evaluates all these proposals and brings to the Minister of Labour and he, in turn, brings to the Ministerial Council the proposal to increase or not the minimum wage. So we hold a very good tool in our hands. He came to our country in 2013. He was questioned. Then SYRIZA kept it and it was positive. We're keeping it today, too. And we implemented its implementation in 2020. Unfortunately, Mr President, the pandemic overturned everything. And it was not negative that we stopped evaluating the possibility of raising the minimum wage. It was positive, Mr Kegeroglu, because at a time when the mechanism is integrating and the development of the economy, at a time when we will certainly have a recession, it would jeopardise pay. And I answer directly the question, which Mr Kegeroglu has not asked me, and it is here in the timely question. There is no risk to workers' wages or wages. No worker is at risk of his wages. It's a crisis, we'll all spend it together. The state is here and in 2021 we will move on again, all together.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u29	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Two things are revealed by the Minister's position: The first is that for the crisis in 2009 it was not the derailment of the economy caused by its unreasonable management after the entry into the Eurozone by the Government of New Democracy, but by the workers. Mr President, Mr Brutsi's basic salary was the cause of derailment of the economy and the challenge of the crisis! It is unacceptable that this concept, which covers policies, covers the wrong choices and gives a wrong signal to society. It's out of reality, too. We are talking today, after ten years of crisis experienced by the Greek people, with the main responsibility of those who did not contribute to dealing with it and especially those who caused it, who in the first phase of tackling this crisis was your party, Mr Brutsis, who had to spend two years, to have a new memorandum to say: 'Yes, we had to help in this effort'. You're unrepentant once again. You're coming back to these perceptions. In 2013, we had a programme, a memorandum for the country, and certainly there was a need for regulation of this type. In this sense, not only did we agree, but we said there should be a procedure that does not leave the minimum wage on ice and, on the other hand, appreciate the progress of the economy. This is in the period of the memorandum - the memorandum - I repeat. Today, there is no such surveillance and there is no need for State intervention in this regard. What we are saying, then, is that the wages of workers cannot today be at the 2003 level, seventeen years ago. The minimum wage in the country called Greece is disgraceful as long as it was in 2003. Yes, we have been through a crisis, but it was not the operative cause of the crisis, the minimum wage. The operative cause of the crisis was mainly financial management on the part of governments. We have talked too many times about derailing public pharmaceutical expenditure. If possible, from EUR 2.2 billion went to EUR 5.8 billion in 2009-2010. Was it the basic salary? Today, therefore, - and because it is not a timely question, Minister, it is an unanswered question in writing, which has been turned into a timely one - the main question is not, of course, why you have postponed the procedure you voted on yourself. You are voting for a law and you say: 'Hey, children, do not apply it now'. So the law has been in force since 2013 and it has had to be applied four times to SYRIZA and to you in this year, or it's a card law, and so we want to activate it, and so we don't want to activate it, on the grounds that we want to protect the workers - it says - why would pay go below! Really? Here, then, the institutional issue is a different concept, and I understand it from SYRIZA. SYRIZA has a communist concept that is linked to state intervention, without, of course, being identified, which existed in the Soviet Union or in the concepts in the states with a strong state that defined everything. I get it. You, Mr. Mitsotakis, who is the teenage - supposedly - of the free economy, which is immortal - supposedly - liberalism, are not telling me how far the long hand of the state arrives? Well, let's know. You're glad SYRIZA agreed? So, you're following SYRIZA's policy, like many others, but not everything? You can finally tell us if you have your own policy, your perception, and what you will do. I would like to focus on this, and I would like you to tell me whether the social partners, of course, with the coordination of the state, through a broader social agreement, can have the right to consult, to assess on the basis of the needs of the workers and society and the potential of the economy and business, to co-decide on the minimum basic wage. That's the question. It is a different concept, of course, and I do not expect you to say anything different. But to identify yourself with stateism and other ideological political concepts, I think that it is beyond the philosophy of your party and you must of course apologize to the citizens, to your own people, to those who are voting for you for other things. I do not believe and seek to support and accept it. I would point out, however, to see that we have a huge difference of perception for many things and one is the wages of the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u31	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, for restoring the truth, because Mr Kegeroglu tried to alter it and create impressions, I would like to clarify that in no case did I say from my prototype, I let it be understood, that the workers and their salaries were in no way responsible for the fiscal crisis in our country! What I have identified and indicated is that, within the weaknesses of the functioning of our state, we also had a mechanism that produced the minimum wage, which we do not politically agree, was not the right direction and introduced a reform that incorporates Europe's good practices. Mr. Kegeroglu is against this. He wants us to return to the past, identified with populism and a mentality outdated. It is his right, but Greece will go forward, Greece will not come back. And I am now being criticised. Who, Mr. President? I, as a New Democracy, accept criticism from Mr Kegeroglu of PASOK for a reduction in wages. Do you remember, Mr President, by the 2012 PASOK Ministerial Act, the ruling PASOK reduced the minimum wage from EUR 750 to EUR 584? PASOK reduced it. And is PASOK coming today to make the honorer and the defender of the minimum wage that introduced a reduction in the minimum wage?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u33	Was 2012 PASOK or Papademos? Really? You're lying! In November 2011, PASOK stopped!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u34	Don't get excited, Mr. Kegeroglu, from the truth. You reduced the minimum wage from 750 to 584 euros. That's the reality. So be very careful when you come here and make the honorer through the well-known populism that crosses you in favour of the workers. Because at the end of the day, who is in favour of workers is the one who is telling the truth, Mr President, not the one who hits the back, closes the eye and wants to be pleasant, but the one who needs to be useful. And we as politicians, as a New Democracy, have all these years been in a direction: to support workers through the truth, and the truth is that we need to introduce policies, bring reforms so that we can change the state, create growth, create wealth and increase employment and increase wages. After all, in our political agenda, what we are saying is that we want to increase jobs and well-paid workers. This is our position over time. How are we going to achieve this? Does Mr Kegeroglu dare today, with the recession that will pass through our country, demand an increase in wages to blow up the economy in the air and have hundreds of thousands of unemployed? That's hypocrisy, Mr. Kegeroglu! Are you coming here and doing the good thing about the workers? We protect the worker. Because, as the mechanism is linked to the country's development potential, it would be dangerous, Mr President, for this mechanism to be linked to the recession, because it could actually lead to the opposite effects. So we shifted its mechanism and function for 2021 to protect workers, because it could not work with today's data, i.e. in emergencies of recession and pandemic. And here comes Mr Kegeroglu - I do not know if it is his own viewpoint or the Change Movement as a whole, but let them find it among themselves - and it is recommended in 2020, with unemployment being really the big challenge, to ask for increases for workers. This is called hypocrisy and populism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u35	Thank you. We are now going to the second with number 6137/4-2020 question of the circle of petitions - questions by the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "In a deadlock to the Sikaryidio Foundation". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domna - Maria Michailidou. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, I cannot start with Mr Brutsi's lies, who of course says them, and then he does not remember, he is leaving. Well, I didn't talk about any increase or reductions. I talked to the institutions. Therefore, the lie he said here in front of all of you - and the Conference of Presidents gives you the right to intervene and correct - that I allegedly asked for an increase in the period of recession, the fat lie, does not exist, Mr President. So it seems who's a propagandaist. I have asked us to deal with this matter in institutional terms. The normality of the New Democracy has been restored - I do not accept the term - and the country should really discuss how to go. One of the issues is the wealth generated, how and how the conditions are really guaranteed to make progress and development, because workers' wages relate to progress and development. So we come to the question...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u37	I'm sorry, Mr. Kegeroglu, I'm gonna interrupt you for a second because you rightly said so. I have to say that the debate between you - I will give you all the time for the question - took place on the mechanism for the minimum wage. They were not discussed at all by either of them as regards the increase in minimum wages. Please, go on to your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u38	Since I do not agree with the mechanism, how am I going to ask the Minister for an increase? I think the Minister should not intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u39	I said who she is...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u40	But that makes sense, I'm saying something logical. So we come to a very serious issue, which we have discussed with the Minister of Labour, which concerns the "Sicily" Foundation. Informatively, I have to say, in order to inform the House as a whole, that "Sikiridio" a legal person has offered important work in previous years and has enormous potential to offer work to children with problems. It's an institution, which was run only by it. However, by distinguishing the problems that existed over a certain period of time, the state decided - and rightly decided - in 2015 that it now takes it under its supervision - and not only - in the sense that the Ministry of Labour is in charge of effectively appointing the administration, it is Law 4331/2015. So it is not a mere legal person of a club, a body, a legacy that is autonomous, it is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour. The Sikiaridion, therefore, presently has problems, major problems. We, because we are watching things, see that there is a general and vague debate. However, there is no progress in giving sustainable solutions. There are accumulated problems. The workers already have to pay for them in May and June. I will say that one wage has been forgotten since September 1918, Mr President, for some reasons, and it has not been possible for him to be given either. So, he needs to do something about the ministry. And since the Minister has often wondered what the Ministry should do, I would like to say that he has some tools in his hands and I conclude with the titles of these tools. First of all, there is an institutional framework, the 2014 Act, which deals with the resolution of legal persons under private law with a specific project. It's improved, amended for the next few years. The initial introduction was my own and was institutionalised in 2014, but it improved in 2016, if I remember correctly, which for secondary school provides. Because this is primary care, we can use the same framework by improving it, modifying it to apply to "Sikaryidio". The second option is to join the Centre for Social Welfare in Attica, which is public law with its characteristics, of course, which is in proportion to the Psychological Centre of Xanthi, which we have incorporated, solved its problems and operates properly. One is, therefore, a resolution plan, the second is integration into the welfare centre. The third option, if not studied, is to agree - the region, the municipality, the Ministry of Labour, the Social Welfare Centre, the Sikaryidio - and to make a programme contract, on the basis of which each body will have its own contribution, first of all to the resolution of the institution, to address the pressing problems and, most importantly, to the exploitation of its assets and capabilities, so that it can then function and fulfil its role in supporting children with problems. It's one of those things you have to choose. Select something, know what it is and help it and we move it forward. This is the issue that concerns workers, the Foundation's administration, whose term of office you have recently renewed, but also the whole wider society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u41	Madam Minister, you have the role.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to inform the Greek delegation, but also our fellow citizens, of the moves we have already made on this, as you have rightly said, a historic institution. This is not the first time that we have been in this House, and indeed we are talking about this issue. I also answered your corresponding question in January. So let me remind you of some of the things we discussed at the time, but also to inform you of the precise actions that we have taken since then. As you well know, "Sikiridio" is an institution historical, which has been offering its services since 1939 to children with disabilities. In 1955, however, a legal recommendation as a legal person governed by public law began to function as a PPP. So, for the last sixty-five years, it has been operating in this legal form, a legal person governed by private law. So there is a specific feature in "Sikiridio", which is that his administration, as you said, is defined by the public. Therefore, it is increased, if you like, and the supervision, but also the responsibility of our Ministry in this. We have felt that responsibility very well since the first days of taking up our duties. And that's why? Because we found an institution with tax debts in tax and tax authorities EUR 600,000. Last January, from the same Step, I pointed out that "Sikiridio" needs a sustainable solution that responds to its services, its potential and its entire history, a solution that would not simply be accounting, a solution which would not simply be firefighting". I'm starting with the last element, from the institution's potential. The "Sikiridio" is based on a plot of seventeen acres and out of seventeen acres in the center of Amarousios, only a few are exploited. It is also currently home to eighty children, with a capacity, however, of two hundred children. Keep that there is very much room for further use. So in this direction, we moved. We have dealt with the Foundation's immediate and indeed financial needs, but we have also detected the Foundation's potential and have taken initiatives to ensure a sustainable future. As far as addressing the immediate needs are concerned, I think you are aware that in 2019 I itself signed the decision on an emergency grant in Sicily, of the order of EUR 348 000. This followed nearly another 10,000 euros from a further exceptional grant. In particular, EUR 9,333, if I'm not mistaken. Total EUR 357,000, nearly EUR 360,000. Overall, the remaining PPPs for this period, 2019-2020, have received 620,000 euros. We're talking about NYPD with a lot of great needs all over the territory. So when the "Sikiridio" has received a grant from the state of 360,000 euros and the rest of the NCI 620,000, you understand that more than half of them have gone to "Sikiridio". So, thanks to these grants, "Sikiridio" managed to serve its tax debts. At the same time, until the last working day of 2019, there was a beneficial arrangement that the institution was exempted from the requirement, inter alia, of tax information, and could therefore collect revenues. These collections, as you probably know, come from two sources. Firstly, from the ESRB, which covers most of its laboratories and some of its payroll -33% of payroll, covering thirty-one staff - but also from the EOPY hospitals, which cover forty-three people and not thirteen cases which are uninsured. I'll be honest with you. In the first months of 2020, it was found that despite the very large grants from the Ministry - I told you again that more than half of the money for the RIS funding went to the "Sikiaridion" Foundation - the institution was unable to regulate its tax debts. That is why, in a bill that we are tabling together with the Minister, as the Ministry of Labour, by the end of the year, we are ordering the extension of the exemption from tax and insurance information so that the institution can collect this money from both the ESRB and the EEAS. The second solution, which we are giving and which concerns sustainability, is about the creation and programming of a municipality and the contribution of the CIDAP, AMEA and CIP, for which I am going to speak in secondary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. This is a year when we have a New Democracy Government and, therefore, the same things that were said in July or September are no longer meaningful. We want a solution to the problem, which, of course, has already been and in a different form, can be said to exist for seven to eight years. The foundation's in a weakness. There can be no prospect if the state does not fall over, and in this case the Ministry of Labour and the Minister of State. We say that, in addition to the temporary solution that is necessary, money that is entitled to take to pay the public, that there should be a sustainability and perspective plan. So the plan of sustainability and prospects cannot be stopped in the regulation that you have told us, which is necessary. But listen. The public debts are 118,000. It will take the public, i.e. debts based on the arrangement that will be made. You owed the FBI. Good. It is necessary to renovate, reform the buildings so that they can have a budget of some 200,000. As far as the workers are concerned, in the budget of the municipality concerned, if they leave it open, there are only 74 000. So there is no prospect of this. I believe that the political leadership must choose one of the three solutions, and in cooperation with the administration, workers and self-government, and with us to help, provide a solution. What are the three different, alternative routes? I'm telling them all three, because someone needs to follow. But don't come here to invoke us that this can also be done. It is, first of all, about joining the Social Welfare Centre, which is a definitive and better solution to us, because it is immediately going through another regime which also forms part of the Ministry's planning of the Social Welfare Centre, and things are going much better. The second solution, which we have proved to you, is to remain the same as the institutions, but to become a resolution and sustainability plan, which is between the administration of the Foundation and the Ministry of Labour, in line with the model of the resolution plan of Law 4262/2014, Articles 55 and 56. They are provided for in this law. And the third solution is to make a programme contract, the Ministry of Labour, can also be the Centre for Social Welfare at Attica to enter, "Sikiridio" Foundation, Municipality of Amarousio, and possibly the region in which the Municipality of Amarousio and "Sikiridio" is located. These three solutions are, which, in the same study, with the relevant resolution and sustainability plan, can incorporate a serious institution - a tool in a perspective. We can't say every time that we're going to prolong the tax information to get some money from here to give it to the public from there, continue to remain unpaid workers, not to have the breath he needs and the prospect. It's not "Sikiridio" to grow. It has potential, we will make use of them and it will play an important role. Because the problems of society and the agony, especially for children with disabilities, children of these families who have been really fighting since the first time of their birth or from the point that they have a problem, can find a response from such policies at the "Sikaryidio" Foundation. So what do we urge you to do? First of all, on the basis of the data, what you want to do, tell the managers that this is your plan and go ahead with it. It's not just announcing and informing us here. You need to move on. That is what I have said since the beginning, and that is what I am closing down - there is no one but the Ministry of Labour, the welfare sector. Because under the 2015 Act, in addition to the general supervision it had in previous years, the institution has also adopted as its own child. The retard is the Ministry of Labour. That is what I want you to understand and that the responsibilities will be of good or bad to you, especially to you, if it does not go ahead. So we call on you to leave the rigid attitude you have shown so far - because your attitude is rigid - in relation to what the workers and the administration are putting you into the problem, to give a solution, and we will be close to supporting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u45	Mrs Michaelidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Kegeroglu. I would like to add a little more to the three solutions of Mr Kegeroglou's solutions and there are others and there is the solution offered by our Ministry. It is not a 'good news' which merely offers the three solutions that have been described, with just enough detail in Parliament. I would also like to remind you that the 'Sicily' - as you said, Mr Kegeroglu - is not entitled to taxpayers' money. What "Sikiridio" is entitled to be a legal person under private law is to receive the help needed by the Ministry of Labour, so that he can continue to provide in a sustainable manner the services he needs in children with disabilities. And that's what we're doing. Because the taxpayer's money is money which we respect very much, and we understand how difficult it is to give these months, the months of pandemic that the financial situations are very different. So the solution - especially the first and second solution you described, that is, the first to enter the "Sikaryidio" from the "back door" into the public and the second to enter Sikaryidio from the "front door" as a member of the Centre for Social Welfare of Attica in public - is not a solution to any legal person of private law that has been in debt, to be stalled. Because this state-of-the-artness of someone is also mentioned here by the Greek taxpayer, who has so much difficulty over these months. So to be clear as to what we have done: we have helped the financial arm and we are helping the sustainable part as well. As far as the funding is concerned, we have given "Sikiridio" money that we have not given to any other PPPs. And in the part of viability we inherited the municipality's program with "Sikaryidio" and no one has activated it since 2018, for reasons we do not know. I do not know what information you have from the workers' association, but we will certainly see all the funds that the municipality will commit. And why would he commit them? In order to build a CAD on one hand, so to upgrade the institution's own facilities, to go more children to the CADC for disabled children, but also to give money, because they go together. And our agreement and the administration's agreement with the Municipality of Amarousi is quite clear that the CID will only continue if the CIFF starts to upgrade the facilities for the CIF. What does the FDA require? It presupposes hospitals that will be given daily by the EEAS to "Sikaryidio" four times what is given today. So there will be economic sustainability too. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Mr President, I shall end. What did we do? We provided the money needed to get in the insurance arrangement, set new administration, managed and passed through a bill now, the Ministry of Labour, the discharge of insurance information, so that he can receive the money from the NSRF and the EEAS, and proceed to a viability plan by upgrading the real estate infrastructure through the ASEAN and through the necessary upgrade to build the CIF in “Sikiridio”, which will quadruple the revenues for those not covered by the EEAS and by the NSRF, which will relaunch to be provided in the next few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, too. We continue with the third under number 838/22-2020 in the first cycle of the Parliamentary 2nd Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Direct abolition of the trade fee to farmers and farmers". The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vessiropoulos, will answer. Mrs Manolakou has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. You know, Undersecretary, that all the farmers who went to the accountants to make statements are blushed? Others say that ‘they came to the head’, since in the 2020 income statements they apply to farmers of normal VAT arrangements, the trade fee, as the five-year deferral of their application has been completed. This is the first time they have to pay a trade fee. And it's not a little, it's 650 euros and they don't have them, they really don't have them. An exception, of course, from the payment of the trade fee, is that of the cooperative farmers who are a very small part of it, because neither SYRIZA has abolished it, it has simply been passed on to the cooperatives, but on strict terms, that is, 80% of production will give it to the cooperative, since we all know that most cooperatives are making statements from the IACC. They don't do anything else. Therefore, there is little exception. This EUR 650, therefore, burdens excessively, both farmers and farmers and fishermen, who are actually trying to survive in a system of very high production costs and the robbery of the traders at prices paid to agricultural products. You know that, too, from the area where you are elected with the peaches producers in the Prefecture of Imathia. Embargo had in the past few years. This year reduced production, high production costs, lower prices. They're asked to get production at open prices. Therefore, the income of the majority of farmers has been affected this year and because of pandemic and major disasters. Basically, with the end of trade growing, their debts are multiplying. They are unable to pay tax for this extra charge. We think you don't want to go into the confiscation regime too, since they don't have to pay. We are not asking you to proceed directly with the abolition of the trade charge for these farmers and to open up for the small-professional self-employed in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Undersecretary has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, in your question, there is a real problem which concerns thousands of farmers. I come from a rural family. I am in direct and constant contact with the rural world. I know the problems and difficulties it faces. I know the negative effects of the pandemic on the rural economy, as the government knows them, and it does not intend to remain unfavorable. On the other hand, it will do what is required of tax relief for farmers. What's the reality? As you know, farmers who joined the standard VAT system as of 1 January 2014 and completed the five-year exemption from the trade fee on 31 December 2018, for tax years from 2019 onwards, have an obligation to pay the trade fee. This means that with the current ones, with the clearance of the 2019 income tax declaration, farmers will be invited to pay the trade fee in 2020. I would like to inform you and state clearly today in the Chamber of Parliament that this will not happen. By decision of the Prime Minister, the application of the trade charge measure for the tax year 2019 shall be suspended for farmers. The benefits of this measure are the main occupational farmers under the normal scheme. I told you that we are fully aware of reality. It would be absurd at this difficult time for farmers to be charged with paying a trade fee of EUR 650. That is why, by a decision of the Prime Minister, we are suspending the application of the measure and it will be submitted directly to Parliament and the legislation in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mrs Manolakos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Secretary, what you're talking about here is positive, parole. Indeed, the situation in the farm is pressing. You described it. But I would like to remind you of something and suggest it. The trade fee is a capital tax, a capital tax, literally. The sum of EUR 650 is not small for a small- and medium-sized farmer. You understand that, too, because you come from a rural area. It corresponds to about half the insurance contributions for half a year. The same amount, that is the EUR 650 carpet, is paid for by the person who has an income of EUR 3 000, that is, a fatal, but also the one who has EUR 40,000, a middle and even more. That's why we say it's a capital tax. It is therefore an unfair tax, taxed heads, not incomes. That's why we don't talk and we shouldn't be talking about parole, we shouldn't be talking about freezing. We need to talk about abolishing and that is our proposal, abolishing this unfair tax. We'll call it for a second reason, if you want. On what basis was the trade charge introduced, this unfair tax? It was a Memorandum of Understanding, it was in the first and second Memorandums, that is to say, the Memorandums. The memorials are over, so SYRIZA told us, but you, the New Democracy, told us that we are entering growth, regardless of the moment we come to a deep recession. They cannot continue to pay the poor, poor, medium-sized farmers, and farmers and fishermen, i.e. the poor. Because in large businesses, large businesses, there are tax exemptions and financial aids. Here, with the pandemic, the first ones you supported with 15 million were the shipowners. The farmers, those affected, have not yet taken anything. So you have experience, not only because of the subject of the State Secretary, but also as a tax agent, I think you do much better understand how unfair a measure is. What we are asking is for the suspension to be definitively abolished. That's the law, that's what we ask you to do and it's not just for 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u53	Thank you. Mr Besiropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u54	My colleague, this government is not lying. That is why the chapter of sincerity and confidence in its relationship with the citizens remains intact. The previous government has excluded from the obligation to pay a trade fee to farmers, members of agricultural cooperatives, the number of which is much smaller, as you mentioned in your question, than all the farmers responsible for paying a trade fee. Of course farmers have a memory, a crisis, but also a measure of comparison between the previous government and the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. I would remind you that in 2015, Mr Tsipras promised farmers a duty-free 12 000 euros, abolishing the advance tax and much more. He did exactly the opposite. It increased the tax advance from 27.5% to 100%, reduced duty from EUR 9.545 to EUR 8.636 and tripled the tax rates of the solidarity levy. It taxed Community aid and subsidies from the first euro. It imposed an unfair excise duty on wine and ejected the cost of agricultural production to the heights, increasing the excise duty on diesel, abolishing the refund of excise duty on diesel for agricultural use and increasing VAT on agricultural supplies to 24% of 13%. On the contrary, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis has already made progress: firstly, a reduction in HIS. Secondly, the reduction of the tax rate on agricultural collective schemes to 10%. Thirdly, to reduce the rate of personal income tax from 22% to 9%. Fourthly, the reduction in the tax on agricultural enterprises from 28% to 24%. Fifthly, in the adoption of a provision for the repayment or remission of excise duty collected or confirmed respectively for stocks of wine which, up to the date of the abolition of the tax, had not been released for consumption until 31/12-2018. We have already moved on to the 2020 discharge of agricultural parcels from the supplementary EMI tax and, as I have said, we are also suspending the application of the measure of imposing the trade charge on main-professional farmers for the fiscal year 2019. At the core of liberal ideology and of our policy is tax reduction. The creation or existence of a financial area will always be used to reduce tax burdens. Our commitment was and continues to remain the reduction in the tax advance that will be announced in the next few days, but also the reduction and gradual abolition of the trade fee for all professionals. I think I've completely covered you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u55	But it's not enough for the farm.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u56	The second question by number 841/22-6-2020 will now be discussed in the context of the second question by the Member of the Boeotian Parliament of the Change Movement Mr.Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The liquidation process of the former Kopaidas Organization". Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we are starting with a very positive message. Incidentally, a question has also been tabled on my behalf about the abolition of the trade fee. It is very important that what you say first, in the sense that it is suspended. But it's not good enough. Because you come from a rural family, you realize what a rural family means and an agricultural income not because of a pandemic, but because of the circumstances we live in. The abolition will be a one-way road. Only in this way can farmers feel that something extra is going on. It's a good thing. We're not going to level it all. Indeed, it is good and we are happy and pleased, because we are doing our work properly, highlighting something that you see and adopt. It's positive. But, as Mrs Manolakou said, abolition is a matter. Furthermore, Minister, as far as Kopaidas is concerned, the Kopaidas Agency, as you know, has, as you know, been abolished - as has been abolished. The regional authority at the time said that before being abolished and prior to being attributed to the region, it should first become the liquidation of the Kopaidas Agency by the Greek State which was responsible and then surrendered. This was not the case for the current Prime Minister. Unfortunately, it didn't happen. What's up today? The liquidation process has begun, while the whole process referred to in the Kopaida Organization has been attributed to regional government, to the Region of Central Greece. A clearer is appointed annually. Again, every year, contract. It's over at 31-12-2019. It shall end June 2020 and no clearer has been appointed. There are thousands of problems not only in the region that it cannot move forward and do whatever it wants to do and exploit, if necessary, the land that the non-cleaning continues. Farmers cannot move at ease. They have a problem with both the process of payment of any debts they have, but much more the transfers and the other assumptions they have to have. It is a big problem not to define a clearer to date. We call for immediate liquidation, because, Minister, it is not just the present one, six months there is a delay. How will this time be covered when thousands of issues and requests have been accumulated and one card is on top of each other in the services of the region? Also, shouldn't it once be over? Is there a government timetable for the end of the liquidation? Let them be appointed two, three, four, five, but finish. It is no good to anyone, and much more it is not to the government that has such a loose end. But even regional selfgovernment cannot do its job, even with that looseness with the interval that exists. That is why we are calling for the immediate definition. We're too late.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u58	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, you are referring to a real problem that our Government has been asked to tackle, along with it, the delays that have occurred in the past five years. I would remind you that Article 13 of Law 4250/2014 abolished the ‘Copais Organisation’. Its responsibilities were transferred to the Region of Central Greece and the Agency's mobile and immovable property came to the Greek State. Article 61 of Law No.4305/2014 provides for the appointment of a liquidator with a view to the inventory of his assets, as well as to the settlement of all the liabilities and outstanding assets and the collection of the claims existing during the period of removal of the entity. In fact, the regulatory acts which have reflected the way in which the liquidation was carried out and which have extended its term of validity gradually until 31/12-2019, while extending the term of office of the liquidator, have also been adopted. The liquidation process raised the following problems: First, given that no kind of file of the Agency has ever been delivered, it has been necessary to reconstitute and recover these files, a procedure which has been extremely time-consuming. Secondly, there was no completion of the recording and inventory of fixed assets and their delivery to the Region of Central Greece. Thirdly, there were pending trials and debts to the Agency, such as recompense and irrigation fees, mainly because of the inability to identify heirs and debtors. The issue of the regulation and collection of old debts of the heirs was dealt with by legislation under Law 4546/2018, which allows for payment of debts in thirty-six monthly instalments - with the possibility of an extension for four additional months in the event of force majeure - in proportion to those applicable to the certification and recovery of debts in favour of the improvers agencies. The complete representation of the real estate assets held or managed by the former "Kopaidas Organisation", which have come to the Greek State and to the use, management and exploitation in the region or the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, will be possible upon completion of the planned census procedure. In any case, the ownership status and the right to manage the above real estate is clearly identified in the existing legislative framework and the Region of Central Greece has been informed in order to make use of its rights. All of this will take extra time, as you can see. That is why I would like to inform you that within the days we are expected to publish the decision to appoint a new liquidator of the former Kopais Agency and to extend the deadline for the closure until 31-12-20. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the reasons you mentioned really prove how right the regional government and the institutions at the time, cooperatives, agricultural associations, local authorities, who said that the Greek government must first be cleared and then the tradition must be made. How right they were! But unfortunately the then Minister for Administrative Reform had violence, he had premuras, they say in our area. In relation to the definition of a clearer, I understand that the appointment of a new clearer to continue within the days is expected to be published in the FEK. I don't know if the time until 31-12-2020 will be enough. I'm afraid it's rather utopia, it's not realistic. I fear that it is so, since the problems are what you have said and even more in reality, which we all experience every day, not only the clergy, but all in Boeotia. So with regard to the problems that have arisen, we believe that one person in the Copid Agency and one person in the whole winding-up process will not be enough. Should you see it in addition? And in the course of the year, until 31 December, does there need to be any assistance in order to have the full and complete clearance of the Copidis Agency now? Unfortunately, the problems are not permanent and the liquidator's employment is not only permanent, nor is he permanently resident in the area capable of having potential, he also has other problems which he faces in everyday life and therefore time will not be sufficient. We highlight this risk beyond the other problems that arise, because the Kopaid is nothing static, it is something dynamic. Minister, I repeat because you said that you are from a rural region, Kopaida has been affected on several occasions in recent years. There can no longer be any other impact on these problematic issues. The issues faced by the clergy are too much and cannot even now, therefore, by this process - the time-consuming process - and the bureaucracy that exists to have and even the possibility of uninterrupted exploitation of their fields. The whole procedure that has been adopted to date, unfortunately, is bureaucratic - and I am expressing it - and I would like to say it from the Stephen of this House that there will be a delay again and we will still not have a complete solution to the matter. We put this question, and we say it with our question, to see it. It is not just enough for a liquidator to be appointed immediately. I don't know. Accelerate the procedures because we're going to the other half of the year! It's been six more months. He won't make it, he won't be able to do anything else. Because we believe that all these procedures need to be completed, so that both the institutions and the citizens and the clergy know how to move further. It is an agency that has been given the region, it is now a service to the bureaucratic structure of the region, and something else needs to be done to develop and further promote this whole area of twenty-three thousand acres. What do you mean? It requires the establishment of a body by self-government, by the bodies, a development agency for Kopaida, in order to have another situation, to give a perspective and another potential for development to the clergy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u62	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u63	Mr Colleague, as I have told you in my prototype, in the adoption of the new ministerial decision the duration of the liquidation is extended until 31/12-20 and a new clearer is appointed, who will undertake with qualified staff all the liquidation work. We want to give a definitive solution to the problem, to complete the liquidation, to stop this loose end. There will now be binding rules and timetables. The clearing company undertakes, as within two months of taking up its duties, to submit to the Minister of Finance a detailed schedule for the completion of the above described operations, as further specified in its offer. The outgoing clearing company from the date of publication of the decision to appoint a new clearer and within 15 working days will draw up a delivery protocol to receive all existing material of the liquidation work for all the assets and liabilities of that legal person, indicating the outstandingities for the completion of the liquidation. We, taking responsibility for governance, have investigated the causes of the delay in the clearance process to finally complete this process. That is why we have sought the best framework for the winding-up process to work effectively and above all to bring it to an end. The new Ministerial Decision on the placement of a new clearer clearly defines the key sections of issues to be addressed by the liquidation universally and defines the working groups that will support accounting, legal and in any other way its work as a whole. The definition of a new clearer will cover the lost territory and speed up the procedures for the completion of the liquidation work, taking a dynamic approach where necessary and giving priority to matters directly affecting citizens, such as the issue of statements of non-negligent fees, subject to the conditions laid down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u64	I thank both of you, and the Minister, Mr Mulkiotis, too. And now we are moving to the first with number 6146/4-2020 question of the circle of petitions - questions by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Security of passenger rights from cancelled due to coronary flights". The State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr. Ioannis Kefaloyiannis. Here, Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have to say I didn't expect it to be a timely question. I thought that the question tabled by the SYRIZA Members on the protection of passenger rights would have already been answered, along with the protection of air transport and workers' rights. Anyway. From the very first moment the matter arose, it appeared that the Government was directly and exclusively associated with the position of air transport owners, without taking into account Community law on the protection of passengers. In fact, not only this, but there are thousands of passengers who do not want to take voucher and want to return their money. I would say that our country under the responsibility of your Government against the regulation of the European Union is among those countries that have rushed to impose on consumers to accept for a long time coupons instead of reimbursements of their money. However, Regulation (EC) No 261/2004 fully ensures passenger rights in the event of cancellation of flight. However, the Government, by means of the Act of Legislation of 13 April, adopted the refund requirements provided for in Union and national legislation for flights cancelled or cancelled between 25 February and 30 September, to be met only by a credit note of equal value to the ticket of cancelled flight and with effect for eighteen months. In other words, Union law has been completely sidelined by the government, without any basis, in order to impose the well-known policy of the coupons. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Furthermore, I would say that your Government has been drafted from the very first time with the joint declaration of certain European Union Transport Ministers calling for this temporary amendment of the regulation. It was not a joint statement by the Transport Ministers, but a meeting of certain ministers outside the institutions of the European Union, a statement which circumvented passenger rights for the benefit of large airlines. And not only that, but the European Union's Transport Commissioner herself, Mrs Valaan, has reacted to this statement by pointing out that companies need to work out measures and solutions so that, on the one hand, the coupons can be made more attractive and, on the other, passengers can also be allowed to exercise the legal right to receive compensation. So, Minister, I would like to ask you this: has the government considered that the PPP issued in contrast to the regulation of the European Union? Why is our country drafted with the position of the twelve Member States for compulsory issue of coupons instead of the refund of money? Why are you ignoring what the European Union's Transport Commissioner points out to you? Finally, how are passengers' rights fully guaranteed in order not to be damaged by the cancellation of scheduled flights due to a coronary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u66	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, first of all, let's start with the first report you've made. It is a good thing that we are before the National Representation and we are discussing a timely question, because I think that at least this government has shown signs of Parliament's writing of respect in contrast to what we have seen in the past - you also now have an experience - where, unfortunately, the ministers of government were absent. Now we're going to the point of the case. Let me return a little to the April climate, because we need to see the facts with someone who was seeing the facts then and not after three months. We are at a period of uncertainty where fear and anxiety prevail. We don't know when this whole process ends. In short, we are in the middle of a pandemic in a pan-European and global lockdown where no one knew at least then - but even now there are too many doubts in general - when this whole process will be lifted. So, Mr President, then, there was a dilemma within the European Union, namely whether we can go to a proper application of Regulation 261/2004, namely compensation for passengers, or go to the solution of the voucher, or, of course, to the refund of sums. This, of course, has nothing to do with, as you may be implying, whether you take the part of airlines or passengers. On the contrary, I would say that it was precisely about how the interests of passengers and, above all, of consumers are best guaranteed. If you want, I can picture the climate then in the meetings, in the conferences and not so much in close contacts, either at European Union level or at ministries. That was then the reflection, Mr Colleague: do I apply the regulation, as has been foreseen so far? I mean, in fact, allow consumers to really demand the reimbursement of their money, but at the risk of many of the companies - and not only the airlines - going bankrupt with the result that consumers themselves may not be able to take their money or try in an emergency situation, which possibly also requires an emergency management and an emergency solution. What you mentioned was indeed followed by many European countries and not just by our country. You say that to your question. It was followed by twelve European countries, including Belgium, France, the Czech Republic, Cyprus, the Netherlands. I would like to say that about half the countries of the European Union and not only Greece followed this solution. What have we done, Mr. Comrade? In fact, we have legislated that for the period from 25 February 2020 to 30 September 2020 any claims for the reimbursement of airlines due to the cancellation of flights are met with the provision of voucher, i.e. a credit note equal to the fee. The rights of consumers are thus fully guaranteed. How long does voucher have, colleague? It's eighteen months long. What happens after that? If the passenger, the consumer, does not want to use the voucher within these eighteen months, then he gets his money back. So I think that you understand that rights are fully guaranteed. In fact, this last one may be deliberately concealed many times from your public positions. So no money is lost. This is not, therefore, a procedure for possibly favouring airlines to consumers. These rights have been fully guaranteed. I repeat - and I will say it in my dentext, so as not to misuse time - that this way we consider it to be the best solution on the basis of exceptional circumstances on a coronary basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u68	Here, Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, it is a good thing that the debate is taking place. I'm not talking about it. I think it is a good thing. I think it would be negative - and I have made it quite clear - that we have asked the question, which your Ministry has not answered for a time and in that sense we are reaching the timely one and not the most timely one on the part of the Ministry. Now, with regard to Parliament's respect for your government, if we open this issue, we will probably get away from the issue I asked about and I prefer not to go any further. Look, even as you said, there are different situations. The European Union has recommended that the possibility of returning money should be alternatively provided with coupons only if the passenger agrees. It is not, that is, only after the eighteenth month has elapsed. There are other cases and earlier that the passenger may want his money back. I don't understand why he should be alone, deceived or defenseless. Also, in the European Union's own recommendation, it is proposed or recommended - if you wish - that the organisers consider making the coupons payable at a time when even 12 months before the issue of the coupon in question. Of course, in any case, the passenger retains the right to return the money. I will submit to the Minutes a post dated 25-5-2020 of the "Pressors' Newspaper", an approved newspaper, by an approved journalist who reports passenger cases. There is a passenger - it is in the text I will present to you in the Minutes - who on 8 May booked a ticket to the Czech Republic on 6 June and on 18 May received a message that the flight is cancelled. I'm not talking about any kind of compensation coming up anyway. The point is that this passenger wanted to be in Czech on June 6th. He doesn't care about anything else. He doesn't want to be found on June 7th or in the next eighteen months. Why doesn't he get his money now? Why is he really left alone, unarmed against all the methods of the majority - is it certainly not all the companies that refuse to cover behind various ports and provisions to return passengers' money - to airlines? I accept, Minister, that it is not a firm thing, that the situation that we are living for is not normality, that it is not normality, that it is an urgent situation, and that one must also think about air transport and workers in it. I believe that at the same time, however, you should consider travellers and passengers. And you must think of passengers who do not want to take voucher, who do not want to postpone their journey or who does not lift their journey and who are therefore entitled - and we must respect their right - to demand their money back. On this basis, I believe that the state and the state must protect them. So I repeat two questions: firstly, does the government insist on changing the regulation of the European Union? Secondly, how does the state protect the passenger who does not want coupons, but returns his money? Thirdly, how does the state react when companies impose on citizens other dates, other flights, without compensation and without a refund? What mechanism is already activated or activated by you for the protection of passengers? How the passenger is ultimately protected, and hence the credibility of the air transport itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Igoumenides. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, I would like to point out to you once again that the legislative act, in particular Article 61, ensures full respect for the rights of passengers and consumers, and it seems that unfortunately some people do not understand - I will say it again - that over the last eighteen months, if someone does not want to use their voucher, the money is returned. In other words, there is no consumer who will have booked his ticket and will not get money back if he does not want to make use of this right within eighteen months, because, as you quite rightly said, the committee is asking for the relevant regulation to be applied and gives the possibility of a direct refund of money. But I'm glad you made reference to the recommendation. I will also present it in the Minutes, because I think that if anyone reads the full text of the Convention, he will see that we have actually proceeded on the basis of the recommendations of the European Commission itself, which in paragraph 21 - I will read it in words - ‘Consumer and passenger organisations at Union and national level should encourage travellers and passengers to accept, instead of returning money, coupons showing the characteristics described in this recommendation and being protected against insolvency’. So why do you think, Mr Colleague, that the European Commission has made this recommendation? Do you think that she does not care about the rights of consumers or passengers? On the contrary. In view of the economic situation, in this way, in a possible collapse of the airlines from where do you think all these consumers would ask for money, refunds and compensation? Furthermore, do you not think that in this way if an airline collapsed either in Greece or in Europe - I will tell you, perhaps in Greece - that the state would not lose insurance contributions? Wouldn't people lose their jobs? In essence, would consumers themselves not lose their rights? I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the air transport industry in Greece - and it is not just the airline - employs 11 000 workers. I think at least we can agree that a truly pro-working policy is, among other things, to be the business in operation. If we were to go one-dimensional to a specific solution, we'd jeopardize this matter, and I think no one would want that thing. So, to sum up it up - I will say it once again and be tiring - no one loses their money. He can make use of voucher within eighteen months and if he does not want to make use of this right, he can take his money back. This certainly ensures, as far as possible, that airlines and, in general, companies in the area can also have a sustainability, and at least we can, I think, agree that this was the best solution on the basis of the emergencies and circumstances that prevailed in the previous period. And I hope that this period will end, precisely so that we do not continue to legislate, if you like, on these extraordinary solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr Igoumenides and Mr Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-26-S1-commons.u73	With the agreement of the House at 11.15 p.m. the sitting is closed for Monday, 29 June 2020 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
